welcome, madam prime minister, to the european union divided between states that can borrow at low rates and those that can only borrow at high rates. in times of crisis, selfishness emerges and solidarity is lacking. let us counter this trend by making austerity rhyme with solidarity. i am rapporteur on the revision of the maternity leave directive that the european parliament adopted in october 2010. so far, despite the efforts of the polish presidency, the council has not reacted to parliament's proposal. parliament is ready and interested in dialogue with the council and the commission to find a solution that is appropriate to reality, that serves european families and that is in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. this is an important issue, especially as europe is facing a serious demographic problem, which is affecting economic development and jeopardising the sustainability of social security. i would like this dossier to be closed during the danish presidency.
mr president, last friday – 13 january 2012 – standard and poor’s told markets in the world that eu leaders had been incompetent in responding to the crisis. they have not stopped but rather they have fuelled speculation against the euro. s&p stressed that eu systemic tensions and euro problems were due to the growing divergence of competitiveness among core eu member states and the so-called ‘periphery’. solidarity has been an empty word in measures to counter these structural imbalances. the rating agencies have now come to agree with the progressive left that the punitive austerity obsessing mrs merkel’s government and other neo-liberal governments in europe is not reducing debt anywhere but merely bringing recession, mass unemployment, fiscal and social injustice and rebellion to european streets. a financial transaction tax is indeed a very good beginning but it is not enough. we absolutely need to move towards fiscal harmonisation. take the case of portugal, where 19 out of the 20 top stock-exchange-listed companies have moved fiscal domicile into the netherlands and luxembourg, not just to avoid paying higher taxes at home but to skip declaring the proceeds of investment in other world markets. how can they compete in this fiscal jungle in the eu?
in writing. the role of the rotating presidencies is very limited in practice today. this was, moreover, one of the blows that the treaty of lisbon dealt to the principle (never put into effect) of equality between states in this eu. the programme of the danish presidency, like the performance of previous presidencies, is revealing about who determines the direction and command in the eu: the franco-german leadership, increasingly hegemonized by germany, always acting in defense of its economic and financial groups. this is clear from the priorities of this presidency: we find the deepening of the internal market (with progress in areas such as public procurement, energy or knowledge with the express intention of turning knowledge into business); the deregulation and liberalization of international trade; the participation of the elderly in the labour market; and, of course, the so-called austerity defending the rapid implementation of the decisions contained in the so-called economic governance, the pact for the euro or the latest intergovernmental treaty, which aims to constitutionalize austerity and which constitutes a dangerous attack on democracy. these are continuity orientations which have brought us to economic and social disaster. the green and social brushstrokes which the new danish social democratic government is trying to put on its programme are not enough to fool them.
in writing. other the danish presidency, which began on 1 january and will end on 30 june, is based on four premises: a responsible, dynamic, green and secure europe. the danish government is seeking to solve the current economic crisis on the basis of these proposals by taking measures to achieve sustainable economic growth capable of creating jobs and wealth on the european continent. a europe that is financially disciplined, that exploits its full economic potential and puts renewable energy at the centre of the debate, a europe that is above all safe for its citizens. the horizon shows that its task will not be easy, but the ambition of this programme demonstrates the commitment of this member state, which, although not in the euro area, underlines the commitment in the future intergovernmental agreement, key to establishing short, medium and long-term measures to combat the sovereign debt crisis. i would therefore like to stress in the committees of which i am a member the intention to continue the reforms of cohesion policy and the high priority given to the negotiations on the multiannual programme 2014-2020. in the area of transport, the reference to the connecting europe facility as a driver for the realisation of an effective single market. the following table shows the number of the member states:
in writing. at a time when we are witnessing the strengthening of the power of the franco-german leadership, with germany's growing hegemony in imposing the policies of the european union, the role of the rotating presidencies is quite limited, and this is no exception in relation to the danish presidency. it is so true that this presidency does not break with the capitalist model of the european union - as no other has done - that the priorities set out in its programme leave no room for doubt: the strengthening of internal market policies, the liberalisation of trade, the 'captive' extension of the retirement age, support for the implementation of the decisions of the so-called economic governance, the euro plus pact and the intergovernmental treaty, not to mention the so-called 'fight against terrorism' with all the security measures that the concept entails. in essence, a presidency that confirms the path of austerity and the withdrawal of social, economic and political rights that the european union has been imposing. the breakthrough needed to combat the crisis of capitalism is, on the contrary, to combat measures which emphasize exploitation and capital accumulation, to promote employment with rights, to establish trade rules based on complementarity rather than competitiveness, and to promote social rights.
in writing. - i support the decision of the house on the new numerical composition of its committees and i hope that it will help to improve the efficiency of its work, to strengthen debate and to extend the democracy which must always underlie its functioning. i hope that in the second half of this parliamentary term the committees will continue to do the job they are supposed to do and at least maintain the same degree of competence in examining the questions put to them and the same commitment when they take a decision.
in writing. - the proposal for a decision concerns the numerical composition of the standing committees of the european parliament and was tabled in accordance with rule 183 of the rules of procedure, which provides that parliament, on a proposal from the conference of presidents, shall set up standing committees, the terms of reference of which shall be laid down in an annex to these rules of procedure. the election of the members of these committees shall take place at the first part-session following the election of the new parliament and a second time after a period of two and a half years. as the second part-session now begins (since two and a half years have elapsed since the election of this parliament) and in view of its decisions of 15 july 2009 and 14 december 2009 on the numerical composition of parliamentary committees, i am voting in favour of this decision.
in writing. - with the entry into force of protocol no 36 to the treaty of lisbon, it became necessary to recast the numerical composition of parliamentary committees. the proposal is the result of agreement reached at the conference of presidents. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a decision, tabled pursuant to rule 183 of parliament's rules of procedure, taking into account the respective decisions of 15 july 2009 and 14 december 2009.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external borders are not encroached upon. and this must be done on the basis of a community approach, since it is never too much to say that the eu is a political project based on common values and strong common institutions and respect for common rules, which means that any agreement between states must be based on solidarity. i would also stress the important role played by national parliaments and the european parliament in defining and monitoring all the measures taken to combat the crisis, as this will lead to better coordinated and effective economic governance.
in writing. - the draft agreement, as it is currently drafted, has raised several questions in the european parliament as to its effectiveness. firstly, the objectives pursued by this agreement could be more effectively achieved by using the community method. secondly, in this text the member states express their wish to strengthen budgetary discipline. however, it is not only by taking measures in this area that the crisis will be overcome. it is necessary to ensure that member state governments adopt measures to promote economic recovery and competitiveness and to submit proposals for the creation of a rescue fund, the issuance of project bonds, a financial transaction fee and bonds to promote stability. i stress that this agreement must be compatible with community legislation and that democratic accountability must also be respected by strengthening the involvement of the european parliament and the national parliaments. for the above reasons, i supported the european parliament's position on the draft intergovernmental agreement on the fiscal stability union that member states wish to adopt following the european council of december 2011.
in writing. - first of all, i should like to express my great satisfaction that this resolution has been largely supported by this house: it was endorsed by four parliamentary groups and voted for by 75% of members! this attitude clearly demonstrates the relevance of the content of the resolution and the extreme importance of the issues raised. first of all, because of the importance attached to democratic accountability and its full respect, by strengthening the involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments, taking into account their respective levels, in all aspects of european economic coordination and governance, as can be read in the resolution and under the auspices, of course, of the european treaties. but also because of the approach to the union of stability and sustainable growth, that is, starting from the budgetary discipline which should be the indisputable basis of the future agreement, the need is emphasized to promote measures aimed at growth, which is intended to be sustainable in the long term, which allows for greater convergence between the member states, greater competitiveness of our economy and, of course, job creation. finally, by putting forward concrete proposals, including the issue of project bonds, a financial transaction tax and the stability roadmap.
in writing. - the only relevant thing to mention about this european council, apart from the british option, is the decision of the heads of state or government to conclude an international agreement between the member states of the union. however, and unfortunately, the long-awaited answer or answers, or even progress, to the solution of the european sovereign debt crisis has not arrived. it has not, because in essence this agreement mirrors everything that has already been adopted in the economic govern ment package, bringing absolutely nothing new, and also failing in its lack of ambition. instead of opting for a community solution, coherent and based on democratic principles, it opted for a step backwards, for going back to a period before the treaty of lisbon. i therefore fully support the resolution adopted today and reiterate the urgency of finding a solution based on the community pillar, whether through the possibility of joint debt issuance, the creation of a common rescue fund or any other option that directly addresses the current crisis in which we are immersed.
in writing. − this joint motion for a resolution concerns the conclusions of the european council of 8 and 9 december 2011 on a draft international agreement aiming at a budgetary stability union, and it has been tabled in replacement of the motions for resolutions tabled by the following groups: epp, s&d, greens/efa and alde. although it has not been possible to sign an intergovernmental treaty by the 27 member states (england has refused to sign), i regard the council's conclusions on the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance as positive, which, together with the six-pack of economic governance proposals, will boost the much-desired economic growth. i therefore voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution and i hope that the european commission, as guardian of the treaties of the european union, will do everything possible to ensure that they are strictly observed and that they contribute to the implementation of the community method with a view to transforming monetary union into a genuine economic and budgetary union.
in writing. - the debate and vote on this resolution, while not surprising, are clarifying. the main political groups, showing their indignation to varying degrees at the manifest illegality and illegitimacy of this agreement and the way in which parliament has been disrespected throughout the process, are now preparing to back it, demanding only petty guarantees that what has now been disrespected will be respected in the future. the emphasis on reservations or disagreements about the way the agreement was reached does not hide the acceptance of its intolerable content. we are facing a real coup, through which they intend to constitutionalize and perpetuate the policies of genuine civilizational regression that they have put in place in several countries, such as portugal. repeating the speeches of merkel and sarkozy, both the president of the european commission and the main political groups (right, liberal, green and social democrat), with natural (but incidental) changes, came here to defend the content of the agreement. it is telling how, in the first paragraph, the objectives of the agreement are defended, only to question the way in which they will be achieved. in the end, the commission and parliament are merely ornaments to the eu's institutional architecture, sounding boxes for the guidelines emanating from those who really rule: the franco-german leadership, which is increasingly dominated by germany.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the european council of 8 and 9 december and on the new intergovernmental treaty under preparation. however, i have reservations about three points. firstly, i do not share the doubts about the need for the treaty. its main objectives - including the incorporation of the golden rule of budgetary balance into the domestic law of the member states - could not be achieved within the framework of the eu treaties. secondly, i fully agree that the implementation of the new treaty at union level should be left to the institutions themselves in accordance with the community method. but i cannot dismiss the constitutional problem of using the eu institutions, created by the respective treaties, to implement a treaty outside them, which does not bind all the member states. thirdly, i entirely agree with the idea that the treaty should provide for genuine budgetary union and genuine economic union, but i think that among the missing points (redemption fund, project bonds, financial transaction tax, road map for stability bonds) there should also be a minimum of tax harmonization, without which there can be no level playing field in the internal market.
in writing. − the pressure on the euro area makes it urgent to adopt measures to respond firmly, sustainably and effectively to the current economic, financial and social crisis. in this context, it is crucial that solutions are found that can restore market confidence while safeguarding the values, principles and institutional framework on which the european project is based. in this context, it should be recognised that the new treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union, which is to be agreed on 30 january and involves the leaders of all the member states except the united kingdom, is far from the ideal solution, as it represents a strengthening of the intergovernmental aspect to the detriment of the community method. however, it is important to maintain a constructive attitude here, and the european parliament should do everything possible to seek to deepen the community framework of this treaty and to extend its scope so that, alongside budgetary discipline, it can also include an agenda for growth and solidarity between the member states. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution of the european parliament expressing its doubts as to the need for an intergovernmental agreement on a budgetary stability union whose main objectives could, for the most part, be more adequately and effectively achieved by means of measures consistent with eu law, in order to provide a firm and sustainable response to the current economic crisis as soon as possible. in this document parliament also declares that it is ready to make efforts to reach a constructive solution, supporting the proposal put to the ad hoc working party by the members appointed by the conference of presidents to represent parliament.
in writing. the debate and vote on this resolution have clearly revealed the contradictions in the current process of european capitalist integration. the political groups which were allegedly outraged by the method of obtaining the international agreement, during which parliament was completely ignored, are the same ones who support and accept the content of the agreement. if this agreement is implemented, we shall be witnessing one of the greatest attacks on national and peoples' sovereignty, democracy and the possibility of taking decisions on budgetary matters, one of the main instruments of national politics. once again, the european commission and most of the political groups are simply reproducing and supporting the guidelines set out by the franco-german directorate.
mr president, i was not a member of the european parliament in the previous legislature and so i would like to put a question, perhaps a bit naïve, but i would like to put a question. in the previous elections, before the victory of prime minister viktor orban, there was a socialist prime minister, who was elected at the time and whose name history has forgotten (i do not want to remember it either), who announced to his parliamentary group, to his citizens, to his fellow citizens and to all his european partners that he had clearly lied during the entire election campaign. i have never seen it, to my knowledge, but i would like to be corrected if that is the case, that the whole parliamentary left asked at that time for a debate also on the situation in that country at that time. one thing is certain: prime minister viktor orban was not born for politics in last year's elections. he's been in politics for over 20 years, he's been prime minister in the past too. when the hungarian people give you a clear two-thirds majority it is because they essentially want reforms to be made and it is those reforms that prime minister orban is making at the moment. what i would like is for our house, our parliament, not to have two weights and two measures, not to have a double standard in our actions.
several colleagues from the epp have said here that it was a majority that passed these laws and this constitution in hungary, but they forget one thing: democracy is not only that the majority wins, it is also that the majority changes, in other words, democracy is also the sustainability of democracy. the european institutions, which are now so concerned about the sustainability of our economies, must also be concerned about the sustainability of our democracies. and this is not an unprecedented debate, as a colleague from the epp said here. on the contrary, it is the european debate par excellence, the debate which shapes us all. so do not tell us that this is a debate for the commission. the commission checks technical infringement procedures and it is the council that can indeed use a red card with article 7 (2), but parliament does not use the whole of article 7. parliament is entitled to use article 7 (1), which is not a red card, it is a yellow card. it means an alert system if there is a risk of a violation of fundamental rights. i am sure that, out of intellectual and political honesty, our colleagues will allow us to go to the scene to see whether or not it is justified to use article 7 (1) (yellow card).
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. durban leaves an even more fragile kyoto protocol, covering less than a fifth of global greenhouse gas emissions. the conclusion that important decisions will be taken in the future, as the durban platform concludes, in the light of the history we have, does not justify or legitimize optimistic speeches. unfortunately, only one thing seems to be holding back an even greater rise in the concentration of greenhouse gases in the earth's atmosphere: the deepening capitalist crisis, the recession and the consequent decline in economic activity. and it is in this context that it would be even more important - it is even more important - to change profoundly the approach that has been taken to the problem of climate change. in particular, the so-called flexibility instruments and the carbon market must be called into question. we leave you with one question, commissioner: how can you guarantee that instead of investing in low-carbon processes and technologies, we will not have a business-as-usual scenario, guaranteed by the purchase of emission allowances from those who cannot use them?
mr president, commissioner, i welcome the agreement reached in durban, where the eu played a leading role, and i take this opportunity to congratulate the commissioner on the way she has conducted the work. the eu has proposed a roadmap to a comprehensive agreement to replace the kyoto protocol. the durban platform will be negotiated until 2015 and will enter into force in 2020. a new era has begun in durban. for the first time, we are going to have an era of a new multilateralism, in which the commitments of all industrialized and developing countries will have the same legal value. the durban platform is flexible and offers the european union an opportunity to combine the fight against climate change with economic growth. the basis for a second period of compliance under the kyoto protocol was also decided at durban, in order to ensure continuity between the kyoto protocol and its successor.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food chain is not affected by the food crisis. i also thank all the political groups who supported this oral question and who worked diligently on the final text of this resolution. this resolution responds to the long-delayed expectations of farmers to counteract the growing imbalance in the food chain, both in terms of the bargaining power between the parties and in terms of the distribution of income. this has been caused by a high concentration of the largest distribution operators in europe and threatens the survival of farms and suppliers in general, with serious damage to the agricultural economy and rural societies. in this context, the proposed path is to unequivocally identify bad practices in the food chain, support their self-regulation by joint action by all those involved, require appropriate legislation by the european commission, without neglecting the necessary performance of the member states at this level, supervision and application of sanctions. the community legislation which is to be adopted must take account of previous decisions of the european parliament, both those which have been implemented and those which have not yet been implemented, together with the responses which are considered appropriate here in the context of the current situation in contractual relations between producers, suppliers and distributors. this resolution is not against any of the partners in the food chain, but is in favour of closer relations between them and the implementation of dialogue, so that everyone's contribution is required. this resolution opposes the unfair and abusive practices which are taking hold and is in favour of introducing appropriate community and national legislation where necessary and without distorting the proper functioning of markets. it is hoped that this will encourage greater organisational capacity among producers and the abandonment of dominant practices by the distributor, such as the unilateral imposition of contractual conditions or discounting practices, without increasing the price to the consumer, but rather contributing to a wider and better quality of effective choice for the consumer. we now have to wait for the european commission to take the necessary initiative.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not disrupted by the crisis. the numbers speak for themselves. according to eurostat, in the last decade, while factor costs have increased by 40%, prices have not exceeded 25%. but it is not just upstream that farmers are being completely crushed. farmers downstream are also obliged to accept prices, payment terms and other contractual conditions that are unimaginable given the disproportionate balance of forces in the trade chain. i give the example of my own country, where the cooperative sector has little expression. the five main groups account for about 65% of the marketing of food products, with much higher figures in some sectors, such as milk. just last week, in my country, authorities seized 400,000 litres of milk from a supermarket chain that was being sold below cost. as policy-makers, we need to ensure that agriculture remains a viable activity in europe, producing good quality food and raw materials at fair prices and good returns for farmers. this requires a good common agricultural policy, but also the guarantee of fair competition, as referred to in the treaty. i therefore urge the commission and the council to give urgent effect to the recommendations and suggestions made in the resolutions we are discussing here today and to put forward concrete proposals as soon as possible.
the author. - madam president, i would like to use all the time i have available for this debate, the four minutes, if possible, as i have two minutes left. i have two more minutes left and i'd like to, if possible, join now. and then i'd ask him to reset the clock. madam president, commissioner, the problem of farmers' incomes is getting worse, particularly in the case of small and mediumsized farms and family farms, which are very important in many member states. consumer prices do not reflect the prices paid to farmers for their production. the unbearable rise in the costs of production factors, fuels, feed, fertilisers, pesticides, among others, coexists with the persistent decline in production prices. the consequences: abandonment of agriculture, the implacable closure of farms, the desertification of the countryside, the concentration of production on large producers, and increasingly intensive and export-oriented production. the imbalances between member states are growing, and food deficits and food dependence are increasing in countries with weaker production systems. threats to food security and food sovereignty are growing. none of this is news. all this is well known, as are the causes of this profoundly negative development. the absence of instruments to regulate agricultural production and markets, the immeasurable increase in the power of large retailers and their abuses, the deregulation and liberalization of international trade, the subjection of agriculture to wto rules, the entry of speculators into the food market. in short, the agricultural and trade policies in force: the common agricultural policy, the common commercial policy, the way in which the single market in the european union has been established and is being deepened. the solution to all these problems will therefore not be possible without a fundamental change in these policies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. it is essential to stop and reverse the current concentration of power in the hands of large retailers and large industry. the decentralisation of food supply chains, the support and promotion of local production and consumption, shorter supply chains, local markets, including innovative media such as the internet, are needed. measures are needed to put an end to dumping between member states, as is happening, for example, in the milk sector. the fair distribution of value added throughout the food supply chain is required. we believe that the establishment of maximum limits for trading margins, particularly for large supermarkets and retailers, should be considered, taking as a reference the price paid to producers, thus putting an end to this genuine myth of self-regulation. the creation and operation of national systems for monitoring and forming prices and their development in retailers and large supermarkets is necessary, accompanied by a tenacious fight against current practices of cartel and price manipulation. a system of production quotas is necessary. a quota system adapted to the needs of each country and the relative development of its productive apparatus in order to allow the development of member states with higher deficits. international trade must also be guided by a logic of complementarity and not by a logic of competition between producers, between products and between countries, as is currently the case, for reasons of environmental, economic and social sustainability. the vitality of the economic and social fabric of the primary sector depends on this, not only in europe but in other countries as well, and very particularly in the developing countries. these are some of the proposals in the resolution tabled by our group, among many others. these are proposals, many of which we unfortunately do not find in the report or in the other resolutions. we therefore hope that some of these proposals can be adopted here today.
mr president, it was a year ago last september that, after a thorough debate in which i also took part as responsible for this matter in the socialist group, promoting meetings and debates with european, national and regional organisations linked to retailers, industrialists and farmers, parliament adopted the bové report containing an exhaustive set of recommendations to the european commission with the aim of a fair income for farmers and a better functioning of the food supply chain. since 2008, communications, reports, recommendations and high-level forums and groups have been set up in the commission and parliament to tackle this serious problem, without any change in practice. we are back on the subject, and we must say it without hesitation. a significant part of the problems facing farmers stem from highly punitive behaviour, imposed mainly by operators of modern distribution. the problems are more than identified. what has been lacking from the commission and the member states is the real political will to implement the solutions. until then, we shall continue to suffer the loss of farmers and consumers.
european space policy aims to improve the daily lives of european citizens, foster innovation potential, support scientific progress and create skilled employment, and therefore plays an important role in the strategy 2020. today, it faces challenges: implementing flagship projects, cooperating and competing internationally, and enhancing the current economic relevance of the services provided in the field of radio navigation. to do this, it is important to harness the full potential of the eu territories and the investments already made. in this connection, i would like to stress the usefulness of the satellite station on the island of santa maria in the azores, which carries out activities relating to ocean monitoring or the monitoring of space missions such as galileo. the eu must be aware of the atlantic centrality of the azores and how this should be enhanced, in particular by receiving new assets. i would also stress the usefulness of creating spatial clusters. they not only contribute to the eu objectives i have mentioned, but also to the promotion of the local economy, through the recruitment of highly qualified labour or the necessary partnerships with local companies, as has been the case in the azores. it is another opportunity to leverage the indicators of convergence with the eu, particularly in the outermost regions.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it is a simple and necessary technical amendment to regulation (ec) no 810/2009 adopted last year. in particular, the rules on transit in the international areas of airports are being clarified, in my view, in the interests of legal certainty and transparency. in short, the amendments are justified because it is in fact useless to control again a person who already holds a visa or a residence permit.
in writing. − the free movement of persons is a fundamental right of citizens of the european union. the abolition of internal borders requires, however, a strengthened management of the union's external borders and the regulation of the entry and residence of third-country nationals. these amendments will allow third-country nationals holding valid visas or residence permits issued by a member state which does not fully apply the schengen provisions to be exempted from the requirement to hold an airport stopover visa. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which amends the community visa code with the aim of clarifying the text, ensuring a harmonised application of the rules and reducing the administrative burden on member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal because i consider that it is intended to clarify in practical terms, both for passengers and for airlines, the rules on transit through the international areas of airports, in order to contribute to greater transparency and legal certainty. it is intended that third-country nationals holding valid visas or residence permits issued by a member state which does not yet apply the full schengen provisions should be exempted from the requirement of an airport stopover visa.
in writing. − a common visa policy is essential to facilitate legitimate travel by third-country nationals and to provide for the implementation of measures to facilitate the application and processing of visa applications, such as simplification of the issuing procedure, cost reduction, use of multiple-entry visas, provision of more appropriate validity periods, etc. the community visa code, established in 2009, was the decisive factor in bringing greater coherence to the common visa policy by allowing all the provisions governing the issuing of visas and decisions on refusal, extension, annulment, revocation and reduction of visas to be integrated into a single code. i support this proposal which introduces a mere technical amendment, but one of great practical relevance both for passengers and for airlines, aimed at clarifying the rules on transit through the international areas of airports in order to contribute to greater transparency and legal certainty. it is therefore envisaged that third-country nationals holding valid visas or residence permits issued by a member state which does not yet apply the schengen provisions in full will be exempted from the requirement of an airport stopover visa.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates the implementation of a community visa code which clarifies the rules on the movement of passengers making a stopover in the international areas of airports. this clarification, which is of a technical nature, removes the requirement for european passengers to have an airport stopover visa. these measures contribute to greater legal certainty and to the reduction of ancillary bureaucracy.
in writing. - this proposal is limited to a technical amendment involving the clarification of the pre-existing text so as to make it explicit that third-country nationals holding valid visas or residence permits issued by a member state which does not fully apply the common visa policy are covered by the vat exemption and that it also covers persons holding a visa when travelling to the third country issuing the visa, to any other third country, and when, having used the visa, returning from the third country issuing it. the result of the vote in committee confirms the consensual nature of this matter and reinforces my non-opposition to this amendment.
in writing. the report by mr louis michel is on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 810/2009 of 13 july 2009 laying down the community code on visas, commonly known as the visa code. the ep has been concerned to reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burden on european citizens, in particular by facilitating the mobility of people and eliminating the duplication of checks which do not jeopardise the safety of persons and property. the commission's proposal is limited to a technical amendment to clarify that third-country nationals holding valid visas or residence permits issued by a member state which does not apply the schengen acquis in full (the united kingdom, ireland, cyprus, bulgaria and romania) are exempt from the requirement to present an airport stopover visa, without changing the practices adopted by the member states. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report proposes a technical correction of practical importance for certain types of passengers, who will thus be exempted from a second check, unnecessary in the face of the previous check which entitled them to a visa. as a correction which does not change the practices in use by the member states but which is only intended to make life easier for passengers and to reduce the administrative burden on the member states, we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to amend regulation (ec) no 810/2009 establishing the community code on visas (visa code) in order to clarify the rules on transit through the international areas of airports, in the interests of legal certainty and transparency.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 810/2009 of 13 july 2009 establishing the community code on visas sought to introduce uniform rules for the transit of passengers through the international areas of airports. however, when the manual on the processing of visa applications and the amendment of visas issued was being drawn up, a mismatch was noted between the wording of article 3 (5) (b) and (c) and its purpose. the amendment aims to clarify this provision, on the one hand by strengthening legal certainty and on the other by enshrining the practice followed. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the content of this report is purely technical, since the common practice of the member states is already meeting this change, which results in a reduction of the administrative burden for the member states affected. this regulation provides for a community visa code, for legal clarity in the rules on transit in the international areas of airports. this amendment to regulation (ec) no 810/2009 concerns third-country nationals holding valid visas or residence permits issued by a member state where the schengen acquis has not been fully implemented, namely the united kingdom, cyprus, ireland, bulgaria and romania. the amendment means that these nationals will be exempted from the requirement of an airport stopover visa.
in writing. - this report proposes a technical correction of practical importance for a certain type of passenger who will thus be exempted from a second check, unnecessary in the face of the previous check which entitled them to a visa. the amendment does not change the practices in use by the member states but is only intended to speed up the visa procedures for passengers and to reduce the administrative burden on the member states.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it is intended to give the european parliament's consent to a rule which is important for producers and consumers, in this case an agreement between the eu and georgia on the protection of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs. i am sure that it will lead to greater protection of the authenticity and quality of european and georgian products and to a greater approximation of the legislation of the neighbouring countries with that of the eu in this field, as it is the first agreement of this kind concluded with a partner of the neighbourhood policy.
in writing. - in the context of the european neighbourhood policy, the eastern partnership and georgia's accession to the wto, i am very pleased to see once again the approximation of the georgian legislative framework to european standards, this time with regard to the protection of geographical indications (gis). although the 18 gi's for georgian wine production are far from the approximately 3100 european gi's (with 1930 exclusively for wine production), i hope that this agreement can act as a stimulus to further promotion and awareness of the quality of georgian products on external markets (especially on non-traditional markets for its exports) by protecting its gi's, very especially with regard to agricultural products, which play a decisive role in the subsistence economy of the populations and which have seen an increase in their exports to the eu over the last 10 years. i also hope that, in the context of the enp, this agreement will inspire greater legislative integration with other countries neighbouring our union, not only in the area of the protection of gi's, since this is the first agreement to be concluded!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the eu-georgia agreement on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs, which will ensure reciprocal protection of their geographical indications and will contribute to the approximation of the legislation of the eu and neighbouring countries.
in writing. − this agreement is an important step in eu-georgia relations and consists of the mutual recognition of geographical indications (gi) for various agricultural products such as dairy products, bakery and pastry products, fruit, vegetables and cereals and beverages, among others. this will mean that 820 foodstuffs, 1930 wines and 320 spirits (from 23 member states) will have their geographical indication protected in georgia, with the necessary gains in terms of safety and quality. it also allows numerous georgian products, including its wines, to have their geographical indication recognised in the eu.
in writing. in this report, vital moreira analyses the recommendation on the draft council decision on the signing of an agreement between the european union and georgia on the protection of geographical indications (gi) for agricultural products and foodstuffs. although georgia only joined the world trade organisation (wto) in 2000, a partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and georgia has existed since 1 july 1999. following an ancestral tradition, gi's aim to identify the origin, quality and characteristics of certain products, linking them to the land where they are produced, in order to guarantee their reputation. i voted in favour of this draft recommendation because i believe that both georgia and the eu, particularly its farmers, will benefit greatly from having the characteristics of their products (cheeses, fats, bakery and pastry products, fruit, vegetables, cereals, fresh meat and meat products, fresh fish and seafood, wine, spirits and beer) recognised and protected. i also welcome the strengthening of trade relations between the eu and georgia.
in writing. - geographical indications (gi) are an instrument designed to protect certain names which identify products with a special link to their territory of origin. gi indications are indications identifying a product as originating in a given territory, where a particular quality, reputation or other characteristic of the product can essentially be attributed to its geographical origin. in the current international context, marked by the deregulation and liberalisation of world trade, the standardisation of production methods, the intensification and homogenisation of production, the consequent loss of traditional production methods and products and the reduction of biodiversity in its many aspects, gi's are an instrument that can help to preserve and respect the characteristics and quality of certain local and regional productions. we support the establishment of gi for various agricultural products such as cheeses, fruit, vegetables, cereals, meat, fish and shellfish, bakery and pastry products, wines and spirits from various eu countries (23) and georgia. but it is important to remember that this instrument is not the panacea for the evils of trade deregulation. what is needed is to challenge the dogma of free trade. unfortunately, the rapporteur insists (even in this report) on opening the door to it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the agreement concluded between the european union and georgia to protect geographical indications (gi) for a number of agricultural products, such as cheeses, fats, bakery and pastry products, fruit, vegetables, cereals, fresh meat and meat products, fresh fish and seafood, wine, spirits and beer. the geographical indications of european food products must be protected at all costs, either through bilateral agreements or multilateral agreements, as it makes no sense to maintain trade relations with third countries without european geographical indications being duly safeguarded, including through anti-counterfeiting policies that must be put in place by third countries wishing to enter into or maintain trade relations with the eu.
in writing. − both contracting parties being members of the wto and of the agreement on trade-related aspects of intellectual property rights, recognise geographical indications both as a means of identifying the characteristics of products and as an autonomous market value. in this respect, the eu-georgia agreement (the first of its kind with a partner in the european neighbourhood) represents a natural step in the context of deepening relations between the two spaces. on the community side, the agreement will protect the geographical indication of some 820 foodstuffs, 1930 wines and 320 spirits; on the georgian side, the geographical indications of some 18 wines will be protected. however, it should be noted that the wine market is a substantial part of georgia's economy, with exports of agricultural products from georgia to the community area increasing from 10% to 40% between 1997 and 2007. in the hope that this agreement will strengthen relations between the two spaces, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european union and georgia have concluded an agreement with the aim of mutually protecting geographical indications for various agricultural products, such as cheeses, greases, bakery and pastry products, fruit, vegetables, cereals, fresh meat and meat products, fresh fish and seafood, wine, spirits and beer. the agreement, the first of its kind with a european neighbourhood policy partner, has specific benefits for both parties, notably by ensuring that the geographical indications of some 820 foodstuffs, 1 930 wines and 320 spirits (from 23 member states) registered by the eu are protected in georgia, and also represents an important step towards broadening eu-georgia trade relations. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i am in favour of the adoption of the draft council decision for the simple reason that the adoption of this harmonised legislation will lead to a reduction in red tape, particularly for european industry, in this case with regard to uniform vehicle typeapproval requirements on the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this draft decision on uniform requirements for the type-approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle. this regulation will make it possible to apply the same standards in many countries, thus reducing red tape and helping european industry to compete more widely and more easily. these technical requirements will apply to many countries, not only in the eu, but also to third countries in eastern, western and south-eastern europe, the commonwealth of independent states, japan and north america, which are contracting parties to the 1958 unece agreement. a type-approval directly based on internationally agreed standards improves market access and increases the competitiveness of the eu industry.
in writing. - to avoid the risk of repetition, i refer to my explanation of vote on the regulation on led light sources the relevance of scale, the importance of the adoption of technical regulations at global level and the highlighting of the work of the unece. in this statement of vote on the uniform requirements for the type-approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle, i would just like to stress the importance of parliamentary unanimity on certain matters, such as these. i agree that unanimity in certain circumstances is a concern (e.g. in oppressive regimes and/or when people are elected). in matters relating to technical regulations, parliament's unity indicated that virtually all the citizens of our member states agree with the scale/safety gains provided by these regulations. why not make the creation of european (initially) or world (desirably) standards for industrial products a priority for our union? is that not one of the primary aims of our community? a single market? why not make it a global reality in the framework of your technical regulations?
in writing. - i welcome all legal instruments designed to protect human beings and to enhance their security. this regulation is precisely one such instrument, ensuring the recognition and reliability of vehicle type-approval. i hope that the european union will endeavour to ensure that its citizens enjoy the highest standards of reliability and safety in vehicles on its territory, thereby contributing to the reduction of road accidents, and that it will be able to establish reliable partnerships in this respect, which will ensure the quality of vehicles imported from abroad.
in writing. the report, drawn up by vital moreira, focuses on the recommendation on the draft council decision on the accession of the european union to regulation no 29 of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) on uniform requirements for the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle. the unece world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations (wp.29) is a permanent working group within the united nations dealing with motor vehicle regulations. the safety of all motor vehicle passengers, whether private or commercial, has always been a concern of the eu. to date, the unece has adopted 126 regulations, and the eu has acceded to 106. it should also be noted that directive 2007/46/ec provides for the possibility to impose the mandatory application of unece regulations for the purpose of ec type-approval of vehicles. i therefore voted in favour of this proposal for a recommendation because i am aware that by applying the rules referred to in this regulation to the member states, not only will there be a substantial reduction in red tape but also an improvement in the competitiveness of european industry.
in writing. − the 1958 agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) provides that any contracting party may, at the time of accession, declare that it is not bound by certain unece regulations. this report proposes that the european parliament give its consent to the accession of the european union to unece regulation no 29 on the type-approval requirements for vehicles with regard to the protection of occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle. the technical requirements of unece regulations apply not only to the eu but also to third countries in eastern, western and south-eastern europe, japan and north america, among others, which are contracting parties to the 1958 unece agreement. the aim is to treat approvals granted under unece regulations as ec approvals, thus avoiding duplication not only of technical requirements but also of administrative and certification procedures, thus reducing the bureaucratic burden, and thus bringing advantages to industry and national authorities.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to approve the accession of the european union to regulation no 29 of the united nations economic commission for europe on uniform requirements for the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle. since the benefits of harmonizing these regulations are tangible in road safety, environmental protection and trade, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in the context of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), the world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations seeks to draw up uniform regulatory lines that take account of road safety, environmental protection and trade between the different states. of the 126 regulations agreed under unece so far, the eu has acceded to 106, of which 62 already apply in the community area. this is a regulatory framework which is also applied in european countries outside the eu, in countries which are members of the commonwealth of independent states, in japan and in north america. therefore, and in view of the strong european automotive industry, it is justified to adhere to regulation no 29 on uniform provisions concerning the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle, the application of which was already presupposed by regulation (ec) no 661/2009. i therefore voted in favour, taking into account the recommendation of the committee on international trade.
in writing. − the world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations (wp.29) of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) is a unique framework for the global harmonization of these regulations, with participants from all over the world, in particular from the main motor vehicle producing countries. the benefits of harmonising these regulations are tangible in road safety, environmental protection and trade. the rapporteur proposes that parliament should approve the draft council decision on the accession of the union to unece regulation no 29 on uniform requirements for the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle, as this will allow the same standards to be applied in many countries, thus reducing red tape and helping european industry to compete more widely and more easily. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i vote in favour. this is another report which aims to apply the same standards in several countries, now adding the eu member states, in this case on pedestrian safety and light emitting diode (led) lighting sources. this harmonization and de-bureaucratization will enable european industry to be more competitive on a wider scale.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this draft decision on pedestrian safety and the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe on light emitting diode (led) light sources. it will enable the same standards to be applied in many countries, thus reducing red tape and helping european industry to compete more widely and more easily.
in writing. - there are bodies that are little known to the general public, but whose work is important to our daily lives and which should therefore be highlighted and celebrated. unece is one of them. initially established as a regional un organization, it is now open to all countries of the world and to professional organizations, ngos or regional organizations, and today has about 70 members. the global harmonisation of these regulations, in particular for motor vehicle producing countries, is discussed and approved in the framework of the unece world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations (wp.29). it seems to me that there is a clear advantage to considering these regulations/approval on a global scale, not only in the interests of producers but also in the interests of the safety of users and citizens in general, compared to our eu. this is mainly because bureaucracy is eliminated (because unece approvals are considered ec approvals, for example), but also because the standard is objectively raised (quality, safety, environmental protection, reliability, etc.) in terms of the requirements for the products manufactured. i therefore welcome the work of the unece in general, and in particular the work of wp.29 and in particular this draft regulation on led light sources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation by the united nations economic commission for europe because i believe that the harmonization of the regulations applicable to vehicles contributes to improving road safety and environmental protection in the signatory countries.
in writing. the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) has produced two regulations which will shortly be put to the vote: one on pedestrian safety and the other on light emitting diode (led) light sources. in order for the european commission to vote in favour of both reports on behalf of the union at unece, parliament's approval is necessary. i do not see any problem in allowing the commission to do so, in order to facilitate the removal of bureaucratic obstacles and to allow for better opportunities for competition than european industry.
in writing. − the unece world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations (wp.29) is a permanent working group that meets three times a year and operates within the united nations. to date, the unece has adopted 126 regulations, with the european union having acceded to 106. it should also be noted that directive 2007/46/ec provides for the possibility to impose the mandatory application of unece regulations for the purpose of ec type-approval. the commission negotiates and votes on behalf of the eu, which requires the council to adopt an authorisation decision. however, the council may only authorise such a vote after obtaining the consent of the european parliament. given that two regulations have been drawn up at unece level, one on pedestrian safety and the other on light emitting diode (led) light sources, which are ready for voting, i am voting in favour of this report by vital moreira on the recommendation for the draft council decision on the position to be taken by the commission on behalf of the eu on the draft unece regulations on pedestrian safety and led light sources.
in writing. the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) has negotiated two new regulations with the european commission. the first concerns the requirements for the approval of vehicles with regard to the safety of pedestrians. the second concerns the requirements for the approval of vehicles with regard to light emitting diode (led) lighting sources. the consent of the european parliament is required for the commission to vote and to accede to regulations. after accession to the regulation, the eu may decide to make them compulsory for the approval of vehicles. as with vehicle typeapproval in respect of the protection of the occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle, the amendment of these unece regulations will allow the application of standardisation in many countries, leading to a reduction in red tape. approvals granted under unece regulations will be considered as ec approvals, thus avoiding duplication of not only technical requirements but also administrative and certification procedures, thus reducing the bureaucratic burden, thereby resulting in advantages for industry and national authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the position of the european union on the draft regulations of the united nations economic commission for europe concerning: (1) pedestrian safety and (2) light emitting diode (led) light sources. in addition to the fact that in both cases eu approval contributes to road safety and environmental protection, it is important to stress that these unece regulations will allow the same standards to be applied in many countries, thus reducing red tape and helping european industry to compete more widely and more easily.
in writing. − in the context of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece), the world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations seeks to draw up uniform regulatory lines that take account of road safety, environmental protection and trade between the different states. of the 126 regulations agreed under unece so far, the eu has acceded to 106, of which 62 already apply in the community area. this is a regulatory framework which is also applied in european countries outside the eu, in countries which are members of the commonwealth of independent states, in japan and in north america. in this way, and also in view of the strong european automobile industry, it is justified to adhere to two new regulations which have been presented in the meantime, concerning pedestrian safety and light emitting diode (led) light sources. in view of the recommendation of the committee on international trade, i voted in favour.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should adopt the draft council decision on the position of the european union on the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe on pedestrian safety and the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe on light emitting diode (led) lighting sources, as well as their amendment. i voted in favour of the recommendation because i believe that these unece regulations will make it possible to apply the same standards in many countries, thus reducing red tape and helping european industry to compete more widely and more easily.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the agreement, as it aims to harmonise the 19 existing bilateral agreements between the eu and the republic of indonesia and to amend some of their provisions which, according to the court of justice of the european union, are in breach of eu law. i stress the importance of avoiding discrimination between eu air carriers and prohibiting anti-competitive practices, concerns duly expressed in this report.
in writing. − international relations between member states and third countries in the field of aviation have been regulated by bilateral air services agreements. in 2002, a judgment of the court of justice of the european union found that national designation clauses included in bilateral agreements infringed union law, constituting discrimination against eu carriers established in the territory of one member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. the present recommendation, which i have supported, proposes that the committee on transport give a favourable opinion on the conclusion of the agreement. the agreement replaces national designation clauses with an eu designation clause applicable to all eu carriers. the aim is to give all eu air carriers non-discriminatory access to routes between the eu member state concerned and indonesia.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this agreement which aims to correct discrimination against eu carriers established in the territory of one member state but owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. international relations between member states and third countries in the field of aviation have traditionally been regulated by bilateral air services agreements. the agreement aims to replace certain provisions of the current 19 bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and indonesia, while ensuring compliance with union law in the field of competition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i support the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the government of the republic of indonesia on certain aspects of air services. under this agreement, all eu air carriers will have non-discriminatory access to routes between the member state concerned and indonesia, safeguarding, among other things, fair competition between european airlines.
in writing. - the agreement we are approving today is an important step towards strengthening eu-indonesia relations in the aviation sector. the agreement allows for important gains in mutual recognition of airlines, by not allowing discrimination against european airlines in terms of safety rules and procedures, and also in terms of competition, as any anti-competitive practices between the parties are prohibited.
in writing. - this recommendation by brian simpson concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the government of the republic of indonesia on certain aspects of air services. the treaty of lisbon, which entered into force on 1 december 2009, has substantially changed the competences of several european institutions, in particular the european parliament, which, in the new context, is called upon to express its opinion on matters which were previously not within its competence, such as the present case of an international agreement between the eu and the republic of indonesia on air services. the agreement, negotiated by the commission, replaces certain provisions of the 19 existing bilateral agreements between the eu member states and the republic of indonesia. i welcome the establishment of another agreement aimed at providing all air carriers from member states with non-discriminatory access to routes to indonesia, which represents an important step in strengthening the relations between the eu and the republic of indonesia in the aviation sector, including on safety and the taxation of aviation fuel.
in writing. − this proposed agreement follows a number of similar agreements already signed between the eu and other countries. as we have said in relation to these other agreements, in the current concrete framework in which civil aviation activity is developing, this proposed agreement raises doubts as to its scope and possible consequences. in fact, avoiding discrimination between eu airlines by allegedly creating a level playing field for the various european airlines could help facilitate the monopolistic concentration in the sector (a process already under way). the reference to the prevalence of free competition (article 4) is inserted in this line, aimed at reducing the ability of member states to defend their flag carriers, in a sector which is, for various reasons, strategic for the safeguarding of national interests. it should be noted, however, that in this case the possible implications for portugal will be comparatively smaller than in the case of previous agreements already signed, as was the case for brazil, the usa and canada.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the government of the republic of indonesia on certain aspects of air services. the court of justice of the european union ruled in 2002 that certain clauses in bilateral agreements between eu member states and third countries were in breach of community law. the commission has therefore negotiated an agreement which replaces certain provisions of the current 19 bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and indonesia and which is now approved.
in writing. - currently, 19 bilateral air services agreements are in force between eu member states and indonesia. however, some of these agreements contain clauses which, according to the case law of the court of justice of the european union, are in breach of community law. this is the case of so-called designation clauses, which allow a third country to refuse, withdraw or suspend licences or authorisations granted to air carriers designated by a member state, where neither the capital nor the control of the carrier belongs to that member state or its nationals. the aim of this agreement is precisely to ensure that these aspects are brought into line with community law. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - 19 bilateral air services agreements are in force between the member states and indonesia. the conclusion of this agreement is intended to put an end to the existing bilateral agreements and to establish a single agreement governing relations with indonesia on certain aspects of air services. several such agreements have been signed since the 2002 ecj ruling that national designation clauses included in bilateral agreements infringed eu law. the commission notes that the agreement provides for the designation of all eu carriers as eu carriers. the agreement also standardizes safety regulatory controls, the principle of competition and fuel taxation. the adoption of this agreement will reduce geographical distances and make it possible to strengthen political and economic relations.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report because it proposes that a framework for enhanced cooperation be established between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao). any partnership with icao is beneficial because it is a specialised agency of the united nations, with 190 member states already cooperating in the fields of aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection. it is important that the eu takes the best decisions in these areas and as such this cooperation is welcome and deserves close monitoring by the european parliament.
in writing. the international civil aviation organization (icao) was established by the 1944 chicago convention as a specialized agency of the united nations. the signatory states shall cooperate in the fields of aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection. this memorandum of cooperation (moc) aims to formalise and enhance the relations between the european union and the international civil aviation organisation, ensuring greater harmonisation of standards and better coordination of their activities. the mc aims at a better use of available resources, avoiding duplication of effort and preserving the integrity of the parties. the parties agree to cooperate closely with a view to coordinating their activities in the field of security. this cooperation includes provisions for the eu to make specialised expertise and resources available to the international civil aviation organisation, and eu observers may participate in icao audit missions in eu states with the agreement of the latter and in the strictest respect of the confidentiality of audit missions. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this memorandum of understanding, the overall objective of which is to ensure greater harmonisation of standards and better coordination of their activities, making better use of available resources and avoiding duplication of effort, while preserving the integrity of the parties. close cooperation and coordination of activities in the field of security is essential. this approach is based on a mutual commitment to achieving the highest level of aviation safety worldwide and the harmonisation of standards and recommended practices.
in writing. the international civil aviation organisation (icao), which has been in operation since 1944, currently has about 190 member states. it is essential for the eu to strengthen its relationship with icao by concluding this memorandum of cooperation in order to allow for greater coordination of its activities in the field of aviation safety as well as air traffic management and environmental protection. it will thus allow the eu to contribute to the formulation of icao policies, which is important not only for the competitiveness of its own civil aviation sector but also for achieving a higher level of aviation safety worldwide and for harmonising standards and recommended practices. i therefore support the strengthening of the eu's position in icao and the establishment of this enhanced cooperation framework, which at present only defines provisions on aviation safety, such as the identification of unsafe air carriers. i hope that in the near future this cooperation can be extended to other provisions in the fields of aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection, which should be annexed to this memorandum of cooperation.
in writing. the memorandum of cooperation (moc) which we have now voted in favour of aims to formalise and strengthen relations between the european union and the international civil aviation organisation (icao) and has been provisionally applied since 4 may last, when it was signed in brussels. the main objective of this memorandum is to ensure greater harmonisation of standards and better coordination of their activities. in addition, the mc aims to create synergies in order to avoid duplication of tasks and is not intended to replace previously agreed cooperation, such as those concerning safety oversight audit and safety audits/inspections, which are subject to separate memoranda. the scope and areas of cooperation now agreed are well explained in the memorandum (and summarised in the european parliament's recommendation) and in the future other provisions in the areas of safety, environmental protection and air traffic management may be added as annexes to this mou. the united nations is unfortunately discredited: its general assembly, the security council, the human rights council (unhrc), but fortunately agencies such as fao, unece, unicef and icao do excellent work!
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation to strengthen the eu's position in relations with the international civil aviation organisation. the memorandum, which establishes a framework for enhanced cooperation, ensures greater harmonisation of standards and better coordination of their activities and allows for more efficient use of the limited resources available.
in writing. − the purpose of our vote today is to formalise the implementation of the memorandum of cooperation (moc) between the european union and the international civil aviation organisation, signed in montreal on 28 april and in brussels on 4 may 2011 and provisionally applied since then.
in writing. - this recommendation, drawn up by brian simpson, focuses on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a memorandum of cooperation (moc) between the european union and the international civil aviation organisation (icao) establishing a framework for enhanced cooperation, including related procedural rules. icao, established by the 1994 chicago convention, is a specialized agency of the united nations and has 190 member states that cooperate in the following areas: aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection. although the costs associated with this mc will amount to €500 000 over three years, i agree with the rapporteur's position that the european parliament should contribute to a stronger eu position within icao. because i believe that there is a need for greater harmonisation of procedural rules in the field of aviation and better coordination of the respective activities, which will certainly improve the competitiveness of the civil aviation sector within the eu, i voted in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. − the memorandum of cooperation (moc) aims to formalise and enhance relations between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao). the overall objectives of the mc are to strengthen the relations and the framework for cooperation between the eu and icao by establishing the terms, conditions and mechanisms for implementing cooperation, with a view to further harmonising standards and better coordinating their activities. the mc shall not replace or prejudice other forms of cooperation between the parties involved and shall establish closer cooperation in the areas of aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection. while not applicable to harmonisation and regulatory decisions, it provides for regulatory cooperation in the preparatory phases of these activities, coordination of audit and inspection programmes and technical assistance. in the concrete context in which aviation is currently developing, and given the eu's role and pressure to liberalize aviation (which, among other things, always undermines safety issues), we are not sure about these agreements. in addition, there are concerns about possible additions to the concept of aviation safety that could jeopardise the respect for the rights, freedoms and guarantees of passengers and workers in this sector.
in writing. - the proposal for the conclusion of a memorandum of cooperation between the european union and the international civil aviation organisation, which establishes a framework for enhanced cooperation and provides for related procedural rules, deserved my favourable vote, since the overall objective of the memorandum is to ensure greater harmonisation of standards and better coordination of their activities. the mou also aims to make better use of the limited resources available and to avoid duplication of effort, while preserving the integrity of the parties.
in writing. − the international civil aviation organization (icao), which operates within the united nations, aims to cooperate in the fields of aviation safety, air traffic management and environmental protection. since most of the provisions adopted in the context of this organisation are already part of the community legal order, it is justified, for reasons of cost-saving, that the european union should play a major role in the icao context by seeking to collaborate, within the framework of the legislative process, in the adoption of technical solutions and in the definition of the objectives to be achieved. a memorandum of cooperation between the two organisations therefore appears as a natural step to strengthen, firstly, the role of the european union in the context of icao and, secondly, to contribute to world air safety by joining forces. for these reasons i voted in favour of the conclusion of this memorandum of cooperation.
in writing. − this memorandum of cooperation, signed in may last year, establishes the development of relations between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao), the un's specialised body in the fields of safety, air traffic management and environmental protection. the aim of this agreement is to harmonise the rules in its area of competence and to avoid duplication of effort by the parties. eu law already incorporates most icao standards and requirements. the eu also wants to have a say in the definition of icao measures, given the importance of the aviation sector to the member states. i am voting in favour of this agreement, but i regret that the european parliament is not more involved in the decisions adopted by the joint committee, which comprises the council, the commission and the respective representatives of the member states.
in writing. - i approve this report because it is in line with the decision taken by the leaders' conference and because it represents a balanced proposal, based on the experience gained so far.
in writing. − having regard to the proposal of the conference of presidents, the decision of 15 july 2009 and the decision of 14 december 2010, i voted in favour of changing the numerical composition of parliamentary committees as set out in the document and that the committees' desks may be composed of a maximum of four vice-presidents until the end of the present term of office.
in writing. − to combat climate change, to prevent environmental damage and to maintain control over the valuable resources of electronic equipment, we need higher collection rates, high recycling rates and appropriate recycling standards, strong legislation against illegal exports, greater producer responsibility, better designed equipment and a fair distribution of responsibilities and costs between producers, consumers and public authorities. this report expresses these concerns to a large extent, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i welcome the new rules on the collection and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment adopted today by the european parliament. these new rules will improve the collection and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment and prevent its illegal transfer to other countries. to this end, eu countries will have to increase the collection and recycling of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee).
in writing. − i am pleased to note that the waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) directive 2002/96/ec has been subject to an extensive review to correct the inconsistent and contradictory elements contained therein. i consider the objectives identified by the rapporteur to be relevant and essential for the better performance of the directive. the review therefore aims to eliminate excessive and unnecessary bureaucratic burdens (technical, legal and administrative problems) which result in costly efforts by market players and member states, continuous environmental damage, reduced innovation in waste collection and treatment, lack of a level playing field or even distortion of competition. of the various objectives listed in the report, i would like to highlight those which carry the most weight, namely cost reduction through the elimination of all unnecessary red tape without compromising environmental safety; further efforts to make the weee directive more effective and applicable through an increase in the rate of compliance and reduction of parasitism; and finally reducing the impact of the collection, treatment and recovery of weee on the environment in order to maximise the net benefit to society.
in writing. the commission has also adopted a communication on the implementation of the european year of the environment, which aims to promote the use of renewable energy sources in the european union. this revision was necessary for two main reasons which are explained in the report. firstly, the experience gained in implementing the directive since it entered into force and the fact that it identified some shortcomings in its architecture and implementation. secondly, waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) is the waste that has grown the most in the union and therefore faces a number of new challenges. the amendments now agreed will make the directive more effective, reduce red tape, increase its applicability and protect the environment, and for that i obviously voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on waste electrical and electronic equipment, because it contains important measures to better manage this waste and thus protect the environment and combat climate change, by setting high collection and recycling rates, as well as strict rules to combat illegal exports and hold producers accountable.
in writing. − waste electrical and electronic equipment has grown exponentially across the union and its treatment and conversion is now a particularly important problem in the european context. in addition to the environmental and public health concerns, which are of concern in themselves, the non-reuse of raw materials leads to inefficiency and additional costs for the production system, which could be offset by better use of the materials used in the equipment in question. i hope that the european union will make increasingly rational use of electronic and electrical machinery and equipment and that it will be able to reuse them in an environmentally safe and socially responsible way.
in writing. − the exponential growth of the market for electrical and electronic equipment (eee) in recent decades (especially mobile phones, computers and televisions), due to technological innovations and very aggressive promotional campaigns, has led to an increase in the tonnes of waste from this equipment, which, not being collected separately, end up in open landfills or exported illegally. this situation, in addition to the environmental problems it causes (threatening human health), is a huge waste of materials - some of them noble like gold, platinum and silver - that could contribute to the recovery of the world economy and reduce the extraction of natural resources. this recommendation for second reading, drawn up by mr karl-heinz florenz, concerns the council's position at first reading on the adoption of the european parliament and council directive on such waste. since it is imperative to implement measures to encourage the separate collection, recycling and/or recovery of these materials, i voted in favour of this report and i hope that the new directive will be implemented as soon as possible, thus helping to improve public health and prevent the illegal export of weee to countries where there is no environmental control.
in writing. − this is the final stage of the adoption of a directive laying down measures to protect the environment and human health by preventing or reducing adverse impacts arising from the generation and management of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee). the reality is that waste flows are increasing across the european union and that it is therefore necessary to put in place approaches to waste collection and treatment with the aim of increasing recycling and reuse, particularly as regards secondary raw materials. the directive extends its scope to all eea states unless explicitly excluded; new definitions are added to increase legal certainty and consistency with other community legislation. as regards targets, within four years member states should achieve a collection rate of 45% of weee, taking into account eee placed on the market in the last three years. the targets for recovery and combined recycling/reuse are increased by 5% over the next 3 years.
in writing. the report aims to prevent the illegal export of waste electrical and electronic equipment. in recent decades, this type of waste has been the fastest growing in the european union, and is often illegally dumped in open landfills in developing countries. this scenario aggravates the eu's development at the expense of the consumption of natural resources and the health and environment of the poorest countries. this second reading version improves the proposed legislation by introducing an improved scope, more ambitious collection and recycling targets and more stringent export regulation. consumers will be able to take very small electrical and electronic waste, such as mobile phones, to various retail outlets without the obligation to purchase new items. for these reasons i voted in favour. however, i do not think that nanomaterials should be treated as normal as other compounds, because they are extremely hazardous to health and the environment and can be equally dangerous even in the recycling process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation for second reading with a view to adopting the european parliament and council directive on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee). i did so because i agree with the amendments tabled by the european parliament which, always duly reasoned, promote a more balanced directive.
in writing. − directive 2002/96/ec, in force since 13 february 2003, on waste electrical and electronic equipment, is currently under review. the aim is to overcome some of the difficulties which have arisen in the meantime in applying the directive (by delimiting more clearly, for example, the scope of the text) and to strike a balance between the need to ensure uniform application of the directive and the need to maintain flexibility to respond to the specific needs of each member state. the european parliament's position is part of this effort to find balanced and appropriate solutions to these objectives. i therefore voted in favour, taking into account the recommendation for second reading by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. − this directive aims to contribute to the reuse, recycling and recovery of waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) by aiming at sustainable production and consumption of the goods concerned. i am voting in favour of this report because it supports the development of european standards for the collection and treatment of weee, the creation of ecodesign requirements to facilitate the reuse, dismantling and recovery of weee and the treatment of goods in good environmental conditions. finally, i believe that appropriate facilities should be set up for the delivery of weee, including public collection centres, where private individuals can make a positive contribution by delivering waste. it should be noted that the costs should be passed on to the price of the products, rather than being borne by european taxpayers.
in writing. - i am voting in favour because this report contributes, through the sustainable use of biocidal products, to the protection of human health, animal health and the environment. i think it is particularly positive that the union now has a list of active substances which do not present any risks. i also welcome the recommendation that under certain conditions, for example in relation to more vulnerable or protected ecosystems (the azores are very committed to protecting their ecosystems and will certainly take this into account), member states may have the autonomy to refuse the use of a given biocide.
in writing. − directive 98/8/ec of 16 february 1998 establishes a regulatory and harmonised framework for the authorisation and placing on the market of biocidal products. this regulation aims to eliminate the shortcomings of that directive as regards authorisations, the improvement of the authorisation procedure and a more streamlined decision-making process, while accompanying the development of a high level of protection. the introduction of a european union authorisation system is a decisive step towards a harmonised european market for biocidal products. this regulation will contribute to greater legal certainty and transparency in the use of active substances and to ensuring a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, and will improve the functioning of the internal market by harmonising the provisions concerning the placing on the market and use of biocidal products. this regulation will also contribute to improving the protection of european consumers. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. − the introduction of a union authorisation system is a decisive step towards a harmonised european market for biocidal products. for reasons of competition and the internal market, it is necessary to establish clear and transparent rules on fees for both the agency and the member states. on the other hand, a centralised authorisation system has a positive effect on the internal market, as it allows for consistent assessments and uniform application of requirements in all member states, thus contributing to improving consumer protection.
in writing. - i am pleased to support the proposal for a regulation to amend directive 98/8/ec on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products in order to eliminate inconsistencies and contradictions. the amendments proposed by the european parliament and accepted by the council are of a technical nature, in particular as regards consistency (both in the text as a whole and between this regulation and other eu legislation), simplification of the text and the elimination of overlapping legislative obligations. i admit that it is essential to introduce a european union authorization system. this is a decisive and vital step towards a harmonised european market for biocidal products. this will undoubtedly be the best and most efficient system for improving the availability of biocidal products, encouraging innovation and obtaining additional benefits for human health and nature protection. however, i believe that there is still considerable work to be done in terms of improvement to ensure that the objectives pursued are achieved, such as the elimination of the shortcomings of the authorisation directive 98/8/ec and a more agile decision-making process, accompanied by the development of a high level of protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation for second reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products, which will bring together in a single document some of the currently scattered european legislation, eliminate unnecessary red tape, extend the scope of union intervention to products and materials treated with biocides (in particular so-called low-risk products). it also makes product information requirements clearer and more visible (e.g. through labelling), minimises the possibility of animal testing, increases the involvement of the european chemicals agency (echa) and ensures the uniform application of these rules throughout the european union. i also congratulate my colleague, christa klass, on the political commitment she has made to the other groups in parliament, the commission and the council. i share, however, your doubts about the authorization of active substances/biocidal products, which should gradually move towards greater centralisation at union level in order to avoid overlaps and increase safety. i also agree with the rapporteur that the training of the relevant target groups, in particular professional users, should be promoted.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products, as i considered that the commitment reached includes measures to ensure the protection of human and animal health and the safe and sustainable use of these products, in particular requirements with regard to environmental and health issues, research and innovation and the internal market.
in writing. − modern life requires an increasingly constant and intensive use of biocidal products. at the same time, these products are required to be increasingly effective and aggressive, which means that their handling becomes more dangerous. therefore, the approach to regulating the placing on the market and use of bio-food products must pay particular attention to the protection of consumers/users. once again, as i have said on other occasions, the rules on this matter must be uniform and valid throughout the eu, otherwise we will not be effectively ensuring the protection of all european consumers and, not least, environmental protection.
in writing. - this recommendation for second reading, by mrs christa klaß, concerns the council's position at first reading on the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the placing on the market of biocidal products, which, in the european market alone, amount to 90 000 tonnes. biocidal products, which are products used to control harmful organisms such as bacteria and parasites, can be used to protect both human and animal health and therefore require clear regulation at the level of a framework directive to enforce their sustainable use. although their use has a very important positive effect on our lives, we must be careful to eliminate carcinogenic or infertility-causing products as well as to counteract potential side effects. the measures now adopted improve the certification process, reduce red tape and consolidate the single market through standardisation. what is permitted in a country like italy or france will also be permitted in portugal or spain. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation because it will help to protect the health of citizens and animals and to create a better environment.
in writing. − biocides are used to prevent and protect against pests and other organisms that can threaten human health. however, their uncontrolled use can also be harmful to health and the environment. this report shows some improvements on the first reading, as a result of the compromise reached in the negotiations between the groups. among the positive aspects, there is a clearer concern to ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment, as well as labelling issues with non-misleading consumer information, such as in the case of the possible use of nanomaterials. the information requirements on active substances and biocidal products should take account, as the rapporteur points out, of the latest methods to avoid animal testing. however, some doubts remain about the rules on fees, both for the european chemicals agency and for the member states.
in writing. − this document updates the european rules on the authorisation, marketing and use of biocidal products in the european union, making them more restrictive and safer for the environment, public and animal health. the most toxic products, including carcinogens, gene and hormone disruptors and fertility-damaging products, will be banned. exceptions to this rule shall be permitted only if the substance is absolutely necessary to prevent or control a serious danger to public or animal health or the environment. i believe that the rules governing biocides should be governed by the public interest, taking account of human and animal health and the environment, and i voted in favour of this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the making available on the market and use of biocidal products because the safe use of these products requires the adoption of a framework directive on the sustainable use of these products. the positive effects of the framework directive on the sustainable use of pesticides recommend the adoption of an equivalent standard for biocidal products. it is important that professional users and consumers of such products are informed about their safe use and about possible alternatives.
in writing. the council's position at first reading on the adoption of the regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning the making available on the market and use of biocidal products contained about half of the amendments proposed by parliament. however, following the analysis carried out by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, there are still a number of technical points which need to be improved in order to ensure the adoption of a clearer legislative text and thus more suitable for introducing effective regulation. that being the spirit of the amendments proposed by parliament in the recommendation for second reading, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the regulation applies to biocidal products which, in the form in which they are supplied to the user, contain or generate one or more active substances. i agree with this regulation, as i believe that a list of active substances which are allowed to be used in biocidal products should be drawn up and regularly evaluated in order to take account of scientific and technological progress and to inform member states in advance of the availability of the products concerned by the companies. finally, i believe that this regulation will contribute to greater legal certainty and transparency in the use of active substances, ensure a high level of protection of human and animal health and the environment and improve the functioning of the internal market by harmonising the provisions on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products.
in writing. i am in favour of this because the increase in food prices does not automatically translate into an increase in agricultural incomes and this report expresses this concern. the progressive and very significant increase in production factors has not been passed on fairly throughout the food chain and has mainly affected farmers' incomes, which creates a feeling of permanent insecurity in the exercise of agricultural activity. the situation is of particular concern to farmers in isolated regions such as the outermost regions, which already incur additional costs due to the distances and remoteness of the regions. in this sense, it is essential to promote transparency so that we can identify what is driving this scenario, promoting resilience to price volatility. only in this way will a supply chain be provided which treats all the actors in the process, and in particular farmers and consumers alike, in a more equitable way from the top down.
in writing. - i welcome the proposed measures to increase the capacity of farms and to save energy in installations, farming practices and transport. to this end, it is essential to use energy efficiency programmes and to research renewable energy production on farms or locally (wind, solar, biogas, geothermal, etc.). given the importance of water in agricultural production, the eu should support member states in providing improved water storage systems for agriculture, including improved ground water storage and water collection capacities in dry areas, as a precaution against changes in rainfall patterns due to climate change.
in writing. - i support this new own-initiative report which, in a context of deep economic and financial crisis with growing repercussions for farmers, identifies problems upstream of agricultural production, with an impact on the increase in the costs of agricultural production factors purchased in the fields of energy, machinery, compound feed, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds and water. as regards the production sector, this report also mentions the impact on farmers, who are increasingly dependent on an industry of factors of production with an increasing concentration. the aim of this report, which suggests measures to be taken in the context of the next reform of the cap, is to analyse the structures and markets which are aimed at creating new strategies to assist farmers in reducing the costs of the factors of production, taking into account their autonomy and their incomes, leading to a more efficient and sustainable use of the means of production. i also agree with the rapporteur that farmers need to be supported not only to improve their performance in the agronomic and environmental fields, but also to better respond to the climate, environmental and economic challenges, in particular by adopting greening measures, and to focus on greater resilience to climate instability, better soil health and lower susceptibility to disease.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the supply chain for agricultural products because measures are needed to tackle excessive concentration and ensure transparency in agricultural markets, so as to promote competitiveness and avoid volatility in food prices.
in writing. - in view of the imbalances in the supply chain of agricultural products in the union, which threaten the viability of many farms, the european union needs to be able to monitor closely market developments, in particular as regards the prices of the costs of production factors, and to be able to monitor fluctuations appropriately and identify their causes. i think that this action to analyse and regulate the markets must be cautious and seek not to introduce additional distortions in a supply chain which has already identified marked asymmetries. that said, i believe that this assessment by the union and the defence of competition must take place, otherwise failure to do so risks jeopardising agricultural production in its territory and consequently reducing the supply of european agricultural products available to consumers. doing nothing would mean worsening the conditions of everyone in the medium term. agriculture is not just an economic activity. it has an important social and environmental function which must be taken into account and deserves protection.
in writing. - the report under review, by mr josé bové, focuses on the supply chain for agricultural products, in particular its structure and implications. at a time when the common agricultural policy (cap) after 2013 is being discussed, it is appropriate to discuss all the problems affecting this strategic sector of the european union in order to avoid the continued abandonment of agricultural activity, calling into question not only the lack of some agricultural products, but above all the ecosystems associated with this activity in rural areas and mountain regions. this is a very important and timely report which i support because it draws attention to the real problems in the supply chain for agricultural products and points out the measures that must be taken. it is not sustainable to have an economic activity whose factors of production have increased by 60% in a decade, while output has increased by only 25%, as has happened with energy costs. energy efficiency must be a priority in the new cap. finally, i welcome the recognition of the need to support farmers in the greening measures provided for in the new cap, so that they can meet the new environmental and competitive challenges.
in writing. - we appreciate, as the report says, the need to improve the transparency of agricultural production factor prices. we also consider it important to improve the analysis of the reasons for extreme market fluctuations and to seek to clarify the interactions between speculation and agricultural markets, as well as between energy markets and food prices. the fundamental point, however, has not been defended, since the report does not mention any substantive measures for the benefit of small and mediumsized farmers and the general population, which should be aimed at defining a regulation of the market and the distribution chains of agri-food products that will defend national agricultural production, agricultural employment, and thus combat desertification and reduce imports. this report makes little progress on concrete solutions to improve the current situation in this sector, although it raises some relevant issues in this area (such as those relating to the efficient use of resources, among others).
in writing. - in the area of seeds, the report exposes the dominance of three companies, which contributes to the maintenance of high prices and the negative impact on crop diversity. it therefore calls for the possibility - now threatened - of farmers using seeds produced on their own farms to be maintained. the report calls for incentives for farmers to organise collectively in order to increase their bargaining power, improve resource management and reduce vulnerability to price volatility. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. it also proposes energy-saving measures, reducing the use of fertilisers, pesticides, herbicides and fertilizers, and local production of crops for animal feed. in short, the report aims to reduce production costs by proposing measures to break up concentration in the agricultural market dominated by a powerful agro-industry. i voted in favour of the report, considering that it is only a step and that more measures are needed to ensure a supply chain for agricultural products that is fairer socially, economically and environmentally.
in writing. - in addition to the difficulties in marketing their products, exacerbated by their weakness in negotiations with distributors, farmers have been faced with a successive escalation in the prices of the factors of production. while producer prices have risen by about 25% in the last decade, energy costs have risen by about 60%, fertilisers and soil conditioners by about 100%, seeds and animal feed by about 30%, non-residential building costs by about 20% and plant protection products and other pesticides by 13%. the increase in the cost of industrial machinery is also noticeable. overall, costs for european farmers increased by 40% over the same period. it will therefore come as no surprise that since 2009, according to eurostat data, the level of agricultural incomes has fallen by 11.6% in the eu. the difficult obstacles facing farmers can only be overcome by a comprehensive response that helps restructure agricultural production by reducing its dependence on the volatility of demand and the market for production factors. in agreeing with this approach, i voted in favour of this report, in the hope that the next cap will provide an answer to these problems.
in writing. - agricultural products have been subject to high market volatility, mainly due to rising production costs which are not reflected in an increase in farmers' incomes, thus threatening the survival of several enterprises and the maintenance of jobs. i support the initiatives in this report, particularly those relating to greater transparency in the prices of production factors, increased competition throughout the food supply chain, new incentives for investment in renewable energy production and the promotion of rural development programmes with an increased focus on greening the common agricultural policy (cap). i also believe that it is crucial that special attention be paid to the outermost regions in order to ensure that the agriculture of the respective european regions is increasingly sustainable and competitive in the framework of the cap for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution which deals with a key issue for producers and consumers. as the title of the report well indicates, imbalances in the food supply chain persist unfairly. a significant part of the problems faced by farmers stem from highly punitive behaviour imposed by modern distribution operators. i am referring in particular to the abusive buying practices of dominant wholesalers and retailers. only with the political will to implement the solutions already put forward by the european parliament will farmers and consumers be spared the penalty, especially since much of the legislation in force needs to be properly applied.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on imbalances in the food supply chain, arguing that european legislation should be strengthened and properly applied in order to ensure transparency in agricultural product markets, promote competitiveness and avoid volatility in food prices.
in writing. - there are now clear distortions in food markets which have a negative impact on both producers and consumers. the former, in particular, have seen a growing increase in production costs and, at the same time, have lost bargaining power with distributors. this imbalance threatens to jeopardise the viability of many farms, and this is a matter of concern to policy-makers, particularly in europe, given the possibility of inland desertification and increased unemployment in traditionally less developed regions. this pressure on producers is particularly relevant in the outermost regions of the union. i would like to see a more equitable and transparent relationship between the various players on this market, without jeopardizing the fundamental freedom of the market, and to prevent abuse of a dominant position and to allow farmers greater stability and more healthy competition.
in writing. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure and replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the ppe, alde, greens/efa, s&d and gue/ngl groups, for the following reasons: 1. we all recognise that agriculture is a strategic sector in the context of the european union's economy and that, in order to respond to future challenges in terms of food, natural resources and the environment, a more or less thorough reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) is essential. 2. there are problems in the food chain from production to the consumer that need to be addressed, including unfair trading practices that are aimed only at depriving producers of income. i therefore welcome the commission's communication, in the context of the single market act, on the adoption of a communication on these commercial practices and misleading advertising. the commission has already taken a number of measures to help the poorest countries in the world to cope with the crisis. it is urgent to recognise the role of the farmer and to free him from the stranglehold he finds himself in between the costs of the factors of production and the exploitation by the marketing chains of his products.
in writing. - it was a pity that the majority in this parliament had missed yet another opportunity to seriously address the problem of farmers' incomes and the growing imbalances in the distribution of income along the food supply chain. it has done so by rejecting the proposals of our group which could really add concrete possibilities for solving the problem to the condoled speeches which recognise the problem but do nothing to tackle it. more than forums and high-level groups to establish what we have known for a long time, more than the cynical insistence on this miraculous idea of self-regulation, solutions were needed that would constitute a possibility of breaking with the current agricultural and trade policies, which generate the imbalances and injustices that we have once again seen here. we regret that the majority of this parliament, including the portuguese members of the psd, cds and ps, continue to reject measures such as the maintenance of the production quota system, the creation of effective regulatory mechanisms in the food supply chain, the establishment of ceilings for trading profit margins, particularly for large supermarkets and retail companies, with reference to the price paid to producers, and measures to stop dumping between member states.
in writing. − the food supply chain has been marked by profound imbalances between producers and distributors. because of their economic ascendancy, distributors have imposed abusive trading conditions on farmers in their contracts (see paragraph 10 of the resolution adopted). these practices undermine the normal functioning of the competitive market in that the exchanges, instead of being based on a negotiation that brings benefits to both parties (positive sum game), allowing a fair price to be found for the transaction, play a role of pure strengthening of the stronger party. it is therefore necessary to adopt measures to correct these disparities, such as the creation of mechanisms for monitoring prices at the various stages of the supply chain, from producer to consumer, the use of legal information services for producers and the promotion of official forums responsible for identifying problems and finding solutions to the imbalances in these trade relations. i voted in favour of this joint resolution because that is the direction it is taking.
in writing. − the european commission has produced the report better functioning of the food supply chain in europe, which aimed to identify the considerable imbalances in terms of inequality of bargaining power that translate into unfair trading practices, such as late payments or restrictions on market access. i am voting in favour of this resolution because i agree that concrete measures should be taken which are transversal to all the member states and which have an impact on the development of sound european legislation. in addition, it is essential to improve the european price monitoring tool, develop a user-friendly interface and clarify the application of competition rules in the agricultural sector. finally, i believe that an intensive information campaign should be carried out at european level to inform farmers of their contractual rights, with particular emphasis on workers in the outermost regions.
in writing. - i welcome the european parliament's unreserved support for the european gnss, implemented through the galileo and egnos programmes, which seeks to improve the daily lives of european citizens, ensure europe's autonomy and independence and win a significant share of the world market for high-technology satellite navigation. it is essential, in my view, that the commission develops a space policy specifically adapted to the various sectors of the sector, stressing in this context that the policy should be coordinated not only with esa and the member states but also with the european parliament. i believe that a strategy for research and innovation in the field of space policy is of fundamental importance, in order to ensure technological progress, industrial development and competitiveness in the european union and to create jobs in the eu.
in writing. − space policy is one of the key elements of the europe 2020 strategy, contributing to the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by creating highly skilled jobs (currently employing over 31 000 people), stimulating innovation and improving citizens' well-being and safety (through enhanced transport safety, civil protection, the development of social services for the elderly and disabled, etc.). space is of strategic importance to europe and it is important to ensure a coherent european approach to space, which contributes to a strong, competitive and independent european space industry, and these proposals are a step in that direction. it is important to ensure appropriate and clear governance of space policy and programmes, with effective monitoring and coordination mechanisms to reconcile priorities and ensure the best management of eu and national resources. i support the development of an effective space policy that can respond to the major global challenges and which cannot fail to bring about the completion of the galileo, egnos and gmes programmes, bringing enormous benefits at social, environmental, economic and strategic levels. it is therefore necessary and urgent that the respective legislative and financial frameworks be completed in an appropriate manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support a european space policy that contributes to improving the daily lives of european citizens, promotes economic growth and fosters the potential for innovation. space solutions are key to addressing the major challenges facing today's societies, such as natural disasters, climate change or environmental management.
in writing. − it is important that the union has a defined space strategy with concrete priorities and that it is feasible. there are two flagship projects in question that are currently underway. the commission has also been involved in the development of the gmes programme, which will provide earth observation data to monitor climate change and global security via the sentinel satellites. both have valuable objectives and bring important gains for security, climate change monitoring and the european economy itself, and are therefore part of a strategic challenge for the european union.
in writing. − space exploration has always stimulated the imagination of europeans and the galileo project symbolises europe's capacity in this field in the face of the american giant. this report looks at the european union's space strategy in the service of citizens at a time of crisis when financial resources are scarce. however, it is essential that the eu continues to develop its space programme in a way that does not jeopardise scientific and technological progress, including flagship projects such as galileo and gmes. the rapporteur, aware that space policy is a key element of the europe 2020 strategy and that the european space industry employs more than 31 000 highly qualified people (with a turnover of more than eur 5.4 billion), calls on the commission to develop an international strategy of collaboration with the member states, strengthening the dialogue with strategic partners (the united states of america and russia) and involving emerging powers such as china, india, the republic of korea, brazil, among others. conscious that a better european space capability can contribute not only to boosting the eu economy but also to improving the lives of european citizens, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - space research is undoubtedly an area in which cooperation between member states, as well as with other countries in europe and beyond, can and should be deepened. such research should aim at exploiting the potential of space for exclusively peaceful purposes, deepening knowledge and thereby seeking new possibilities for solving current problems and needs of human societies. the report advocates a european space strategy based on a set of existing and developing programmes such as galileo, egnos, sesar and gmes. these are programmes with which we have known reservations, concerning their possible use for military purposes. this is the case of gmes, which aims at global monitoring of the environment and security, and whose scope includes earth observation and the extraction of accurate data useful for the development of military operations, even if disguised as border surveillance, support for the union's external action, as well as risk prevention, emergency management and coastal surveillance. this is a type of military use which raises serious concerns. the commission, like this report, not only does not exclude it, it opens the door to it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on a european union space strategy for citizens. the treaty of lisbon, in article 189, gave the european union an explicit mandate to develop a policy on the exploitation and use of outer space in order to promote scientific and technical progress, industrial competitiveness and the implementation of its policies. with this own-initiative report, the european parliament is making its contribution, and one of the reasons for doing so is that the european space industry generates a consolidated turnover of eur 5.4 billion and employs more than 31 000 highly qualified people.
in writing. - in the context of the policy on the exploitation and use of outer space (article 189 of the lisbon treaty), the european union has two central projects: galileo and gmes. in the context of the first project, satellite navigation, an initial open service, an initial public regulated service and an initial search and rescue service will already be provided from 2014. in the context of gmes, the aim is to collect earth observation data to monitor climate change and global security. this market is highly dynamic today: the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster. on the other hand, india and japan are developing regional systems. on the other hand, the economy is increasingly dependent on these services. it is therefore necessary to adopt an overall strategy to ensure that the european navigation system is both globally competitive and, above all, at the service of citizens.
in writing. − this global space strategy, inserted in article 189 tfeu and part of the flagship industrial policy initiative of the eu 2020 strategy, aims to boost the exploitation and use of space. there are many areas that will benefit from the technological development of the global satellite navigation system. the services and applications developed by the galileo and gmes programmes will have major benefits for the european economy and the daily lives of citizens. it is now necessary to maintain the leading edge in this area and to allow technological developments to create business opportunities for european industries. it is also necessary to ensure compatibility and interoperability between the galileo programme and the other in-orbit navigation systems. the potential this will bring requires the european commission to assume responsibilities, particularly with regard to the financing and coordination of this strategy with the research programmes of the member states. a clear signal of political approval is needed to increase the interest of private initiative.
in writing. - as regards space development, we are in no doubt about the importance of deepening cooperation between member states and other countries in europe - among which russia stands out, with its invaluable research heritage - and the rest of the world. such cooperation shall aim at using the knowledge acquired to solve current problems and needs for the development, social progress and well-being of mankind, always for peaceful purposes. the report advocates a european space strategy based on a set of programmes - galileo, egnos, sesar and gmes. the latter has as one of its objectives the overall monitoring of the environment and security, which will be carried out through the observation of the planet and the extraction of accurate and useful data and in the framework of border surveillance actions, support for the union's external action, maritime surveillance, complex emergencies, humanitarian aid and civil protection. the resolution also calls for the security component of the gmes programme to be strengthened. behind these words there is the real danger of using the control of information obtained from space for the development of military operations, as well as the clear intention of deepening the path of securitarianism by attacking the fundamental freedoms of citizens, reasons for which we voted against.
in writing. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the food safety of the european union is not compromised. it is urgent to ensure that food is not wasted and this document can be important in this regard. i stress the ambitious and necessary target of reducing this waste by 50% by 2025. the sharing of good practice at both european and national level, as suggested by comagri, the training campaigns proposed in schools and the possible choice of 2013 as the european year against food waste, can contribute greatly to achieving the objectives we have set ourselves.
in writing. - knowing that an increasing amount of healthy and edible food - by some estimates up to 50% - is lost annually in europe along all links of the agri-food chain, including in some cases at the consumer level, turning into waste, it is in my view fundamental to support this memorandum so that this catastrophe can be avoided. i support this report in the sense that we must avoid reducing food waste. this is an important preliminary step in the fight against world hunger, in responding to the increase in demand estimated by the fao and in improving the nutritional level of the population.
in writing. - there are currently around 925 million people at risk of undernourishment worldwide. in the eu, 79 million people live below the poverty line, 16 million of whom survive on food aid provided by charities. if we consider that reducing food waste is an important step towards fighting world hunger and improving the nutritional level of the population, it is unacceptable that almost 50% of healthy and edible food is lost annually in europe, along all links of the agri-food chain. the growing trend in global food waste needs to be countered by additional preventive measures, guidelines and strategies to improve the efficiency and sustainability of the agri-food chain. thereby contributing to the achievement of the millennium development goals, in particular with regard to reducing poverty and hunger by around 50% by 2015. finally, food waste and the resulting production of food waste also represents an environmental and ethical problem, with economic and social costs and implications in the context of the internal market, both for businesses and consumers.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague mr caronna and the agri committee on the excellent own-initiative report presented to the house. secondly, i would like to stress the recent words of commissioner potocnik on this subject, with which i could not agree more: we have a moral, environmental and economic responsibility to solve the problem of food waste in the european union. it's obvious! and we must act now, before it's too late for humanity as a whole. i therefore support the idea of proclaiming 2013 the european year against food waste. in addition to the comprehensive diagnosis and the impressive figures presented, the report proposes a number of measures to reduce food waste by 2025. i would just like to highlight the ones concerning the expiry dates and the initiatives to encourage sustainable production on a small and medium scale, linked to local and regional markets and consumption. we must act now! the 50% reduction in waste by 2020, proposed by the commission, seems to me to be a feasible target. we will be attentive to the outline and practical implementation of the measures leading to the proposed objective, with the certainty that yesterday it was already too late to start.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the prevention of food waste, because it sets out measures to reduce food waste by 50% by 2025, thus contributing to food security, a more efficient food chain and the fight against poverty.
in writing. - according to european commission figures, there are 43 million people in the european union at risk of food poverty, making food waste an even more shocking reality. according to some figures from 1974 to the present, it is estimated that food waste in the world has increased by 50%, and the fao estimates that europeans and north americans waste between 95 and 115 kg of food per capita per year. this waste occurs along the entire chain from production to consumers. it is therefore urgent to improve the functioning of the food chain, allowing food that would otherwise be wasted to be used and to raise public awareness of this important issue.
in writing. - according to a study by the food and agriculture organisation of the united nations (fao), each european wastes on average 105 kg of food per year. this report by salvatore caronna looks at this issue, namely what strategies the european union should adopt to improve the efficiency of the food chain and thus avoid food waste. in addition to being ethically unsustainable, this problem, since there are 70 million people in europe living below the poverty line, is economically and environmentally unsustainable. excess food production has enormous environmental costs, from wasted energy, water consumption, depleted natural resources, to greenhouse gas emissions. as such, it should be given priority treatment in the european institutions, while safeguarding food safety at all times. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of. i welcome and support the proclamation of 2014 as the european year against food waste in order to raise awareness among the general public, and i hope that the proposed measures will be properly implemented in order to achieve the goal of halving food waste by 2025.
in writing. - this report addresses a growing problem, which is certainly worrying: food waste. the rapporteur seeks to take a holistic approach to the problem, covering the different links in the agri-food chain and putting forward proposals to increase the efficiency of the chain. the report contains some important gaps and even some misunderstandings. the scale of the problem of food waste today is inseparable from the capitalist mode of production, the intensification of agriculture and the increase in the size of the production and consumption chains. it is important to note that small and medium-sized farming, short supply chains, local production and consumption can reduce waste and increase efficiency. it is not possible, therefore, to put everything on the same level and it is important that this distinction be made. on the other hand, proposals such as the redistribution of food to the poor and the application of discounts to products that are nearing the end of their shelf life, in addition to the charitable and welfare dimension they contain, constitute, in the concrete context of the current food supply chains, a dangerous doorway to dumping and manipulation by the large distributors, which we cannot accept.
in writing. - in the eu, half of all edible food is wasted. each european citizen produces 179 kg of waste per year and it is estimated that by 2020 this figure could increase by 40%. the report sets out concrete measures to halve this waste by 2025. the double-expiry labelling (with the expiry dates for sale and consumption), the modification of the packaging size to better match the quantities, the possibility of bulk sales, sales at a discount for products that are close to expiry or damaged, awareness campaigns and education programmes at different levels of education are some of these measures. in public procurement, in the restaurant and hotel sectors, preference is also given to companies which distribute unsold products free of charge to less-favoured citizens. the report introduces measures to reduce food waste and increase the efficiency of food production, and i voted in favour of it. in the eu, 16 million people receive food aid. i think that resolving this situation should be a priority. support policies are important to lessen the impact of the situation, but more equitable and redistributive economic policies are needed to effectively resolve it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that food waste is becoming unacceptable and that we must do everything we can to change the current situation by adopting, on a voluntary basis, more sustainable behaviour and appropriate regulation to combat losses in harvesting, storage, transport under unsafe conditions, packaging errors and the bad habits of the final consumer in the purchase and use of food products. in a context of crisis at european level, in which waste of resources is unacceptable, of exponential growth in developing countries with new and increased food needs, and of climate change, which causes irreversible crop losses, the problem dealt with in this report must be a priority for the eu. it should also be stressed that, in addition to the environmental damage caused by the production of unused food, the costs of treatment and disposal of the resulting waste and the loss of revenue for the producing undertakings should also be taken into account.
in writing. - in the eu, half of all edible food is wasted. each european citizen produces 179 kg of waste per year and it is estimated that by 2020 this figure could increase by 40%. the report sets out concrete measures to halve this waste by 2025. the double-expiry labelling (with the expiry dates for sale and consumption), the modification of the packaging size to better match the quantities, the possibility of bulk sales, sales at a discount for products that are close to expiry or damaged, awareness campaigns and education programmes at different levels of education are some of these measures. in public procurement, in the restaurant and hotel sectors, preference is also given to companies which distribute unsold products free of charge to less-favoured citizens. the report introduces measures to reduce food waste and increase the efficiency of food production, and i voted in favour of it. in the eu, 16 million people receive food aid. i think that resolving this situation should be a priority. support policies are important to lessen the impact of the situation, but more equitable and redistributive economic policies are needed to effectively resolve it.
in writing. - in a context of resource scarcity, food waste must be tackled. it is estimated to have increased by about 50% since 1974; at the moment, according to a recent study, europeans and north americans waste about 95 to 115 kg per capita per year, while in sub-saharan africa, the waste is about 6 to 11 kg. on the other hand, if we distinguish the various stages of the supply chain, waste in western countries occurs mainly at the points of distribution and consumption, while in less developed economies it is felt most acutely at the points of production, management, storage and treatment. it is therefore necessary to adopt measures to combat this phenomenon, not only by improving the objective conditions for the reuse of resources, but also by raising consumer awareness of this problem. i voted in favour of this report because that is the direction it is taking.
in writing. − articles 191 and 192 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provide that the union's policy on the environment shall contribute to the prudent and rational use of natural resources and to the improvement of the quality of human health. i believe that it is essential that measures be taken to reduce food waste, given that 79 million people in the european union live below the poverty line and 16 million receive food aid through charitable institutions. i agree with this report, because i believe that a thorough analysis of the entire food chain is needed to identify the food sectors that generate the most waste, to establish common objectives at international level with the food and agriculture organization of the united nations (fao) on food and to facilitate the application of discounts to products that are nearing the end of their shelf life. i also believe that an increased exchange of good practice and public awareness campaigns on the value of food and agricultural products should be promoted.
i could say this treaty is useless. unfortunately, he is above all dangerous. first, because it reinforces with more punishments and strict rules a recipe that does not work. the recessive spiral is launched. who can trust a doctor who can't tell the difference between weight loss and anorexia? a doctor who, the weaker the patient gets, the more he insists on the medicine, while openly discussing the likelihood of his death? how many more countries have to go into recession before the commission and the council realise that the diagnosis is wrong? but it's also dangerous! because we represent the citizens of europe here. 23.7 million are unemployed. almost 6 million young people have no hope of finding a job. will the council and the commission not see that to ignore this fact, to not give an adequate response, is to show an autism and an insensitivity which are politically explosive? let's get this straight. the great recession is not a fatality, it's an ideological obsession. there is an alternative agenda. it must be, however, not of words but of action. where are the project bonds to finance european investment? where is the european budgetary support for the tax on speculative financial products? where is the barrier that should protect countries from the ruinous interest rates that markets impose on them and lead them to ruin? the citizens demand options, not words, but competent options.
at the last council meeting, president barroso presented a power point - a didactic one, by the way - and in that power point one of the graphs presented the results of the survey carried out on european smes as regards their difficulties. it is astonishing to you, and i am astonishing to myself, because the burden of labour costs was only one fifth of the concerns and difficulties presented by smes. first, the lack of customers, that equals recession; the second was the lack of credit, which is another measure, another problem resulting from the crisis. so i don't understand, i confess my complete inability to understand. if that is so, mr van rompuy, why do governments only care about austerity? why do governments insist on cutting wages as a solution? honestly, what's wrong? the inquiry? what's wrong with your proposals? both of them? we are here to solve people's problems, not to pretend, not to play pretend, not to throw sand in people's eyes. please answer this question, mr president, beyond words, it is just a question. (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the european union is a place where the disastrous atmosphere, the irrationality and the disorientation that always precede the collapse of empires can be felt. it is becoming increasingly clear that the workers and peoples of europe have nothing to look forward to from these meetings. nothing that looks like real solutions to a growing crisis. the european council has not said a word about the intolerable and growing social inequalities, the asymmetries in development between countries, tax havens, the free and unregulated movement of capital which enables speculation, speculation and the plundering of national resources. what comes out of this meeting is a real constitutional coup. they want to impose and generalize the policies contained in the imf and eu programmes - the catastrophic results of which are visible in greece, portugal or ireland. they want to make them eternal (so they think, but they do not know how they are mistaken...). in the 21st century, they want to prevent the right of peoples to freely decide their own path, turning sovereign countries into genuine protectorates. this is a path with no other way out than disaster. the social struggles, which are multiplying in europe, are the surest way to avoid it. and to open a horizon of hope and confidence in a better future.
(without microphone) immediate public condemnation by you of the reception given in tripoli to president omar al-bashir, who is under arrest warrant of the international criminal court for war crimes, genocide and crimes against humanity in darfur. we have been told in the foreign affairs committee of this parliament that efforts had indeed been made in tripoli to bind libya to its international obligations, but that these had not been made public because some of our member states were opposed to it. can you tell us which member states are opposed, what reasons they have and why the high representative has to submit to those reasons? and in the face of the serious human rights violations that news agencies and non-governmental organizations have reported from libyan prisons, with torture, disappearances, killings of prisoners, the statement issued in his name is not very incisive. does this mean that we have learned nothing from our complicit silence in relation to the barbarities committed by gaddafi and continue to remain silent and to make no demands on the current libyan authorities?
mr president, the iranian authorities persist in enriching uranium at a suspicious level which is incompatible with their stated ‘peaceful civilian purposes’. we say that we are strengthening sanctions, but are we sending strong enough warnings to all european agents that sanctions are not to be circumvented this time? this is a very dangerous year, with us elections on the horizon and intense sabre rattling in some quarters in the us, israel, and even in europe. the eu should rule out a military solution which can only spell disaster for the region and beyond, notably israel. instead, in our dual-track approach, we should consider exploring a broader settlement by all diplomatic means. we could do this by recognising iran as a regional power and establishing a diplomatic mission in tehran and by shifting the non-proliferation focus to an internationally controlled fuel bank which iran could access. we could create a weapons-of-mass-destruction-free middle east by working for regional security and economic arrangements, which would include saudi arabia and possibly israel, thus guaranteeing inviolability of current borders and economic progress for the region. and we could send clear support and solidarity to the iranian people, namely those fighting for basic human rights, making clear that sanctions will not target the people and produce counterproductive effects that would only fuel the opportunistic propaganda of the regime.
the recent decision by the european union to impose further unilateral sanctions against iran only confirms the imperialist nature of the european union and its complete submission to the militaristic agenda of the us in the region, which has already deployed massive military assets to the persian gulf and the strait of hormuz. it is a decision which dangerously contributes to the escalation of the conflict and which, as is clear, has nothing to do with the search for peaceful solutions and diplomatic negotiations. in the present context, a possible military conflict would not only mean an attack on the sovereignty and the right of the iranian people to live in peace, but would also have extremely negative economic consequences for several countries. it is also important to remember that these unilateral sanctions are imposed hypocritically by nuclear powers such as the usa, france or britain and that the european union has maintained close economic and military cooperation with israel, one of the countries which acts completely outside the most elementary principles of international law. we must defend peace without hypocrisy!
in writing. the russian presidential elections on 4 march this year raise questions in the international community, in particular as regards the fullness of free and fair elections. these concerns stem from the recent elections to the duma, which have seen a huge number of violations of the rule of law and the free election process. the demonstrations that have been taking place show that russian society wants change and renewal and that the deprivation of certain freedoms will no longer be accepted as in the past. on the other hand, they fear that there will be only a change of seats and not genuine democratic elections, based on genuine choice. at the same time, russia must assume its responsibilities on the international scene, including in the un security council, and avoid cases such as the violations in syria being left unaddressed at the level of multilateral institutions. i look forward to the presidential elections in russia and to the real consolidation of the democratic process, as this country is a strategic partner and neighbour of the eu.
i congratulate mr saryusz-wolski on his work and on his accommodation of the suggestions made by myself and my group. the emergence of brics offers new opportunities for the european union, but also major challenges to achieve its purpose of contributing to a global order based on the rule of law, the universality of human rights, sustainable development, to achieve human security and peace for all. by investing in the brics in the various fora, including the g7, the g8 or the g20, the european union can find valuable allies to weave the global financial regulation and economic governance that humanity so badly needs, as the current crisis with a devastating impact on a global scale demonstrates. but this presupposes that the european union is able to develop special partnerships, with variable geometry like each of the brics, taking into account their historical trajectory, their distinct civilizational specificities, their alliances, but also their lack of cohesion and their obvious differences. sometimes the brics will coordinate their external action in a line which is at odds with the european union, as happened at the security council last year when it voted resolution 1973 on libya, but again one member state unfortunately disagreed. in similar situations it is up to the european union to use all its ingenuity and all its diplomatic tools to make each of the brics countries see that it is also in its interest to contribute to the strengthening of a coherent, respectable and respected international order and it is clear that if the european union is committed to reforming and enlarging the un security council, which it has not done, it will have more capacity to be heard by the candidates for permanent membership among the brics, brazil, india and south africa, without losing anything to russia or china who prefer the status quo despite not having the courage to take it on. it is up to the european union to show each of the brics that the more international relevance they assume, the greater the responsibilities they are required to assume in defence of universal principles and values and in a global order that guarantees peace and justice for all. and it is clear that in the brics, whose societies are today genuine democracies and have deep-rooted links with european culture, as is the case with brazil, which shares with portugal, my country, history, language, culture and much of the popular idiosyncrasies, there is extraordinary potential to develop partnerships and cooperation in all fields from trade to applied scientific development, industry, environmental and climate protection, renewable energy, the fight against poverty and the promotion of democracy. it is no accident that president dilma rousseff recently recited in cuba the refrain of the portuguese antifascist song: the people are the most important.
first of all, i would naturally like to congratulate the rapporteur, our colleague mr saryusz-wolski, on the preparation of this report. i think it is an important piece in the definition of the european union's foreign policy strategy and so i hope that the commission and in particular the vice-president/high representative will be able to incorporate into their strategy the vision that the rapporteur saryusz-wolski here leaves. i would like to congratulate you, as a portuguese, on the fact that the door has been opened, albeit only the door, to the creation of a delegation of the european parliament for brazil, because it is incomprehensible that all the brics have their own delegation except brazil, which is curiously the only brics that has a european national language, that has a clearly western, atlantic and european culture and therefore has unique affinities with us, that has a decisive role as an example to the other brics in the field of human rights, in the field of, say, international standards of action and that the european parliament, unlike the commission and the council, has not yet created its own delegation for brazil. the commission and the council have an alliance, a strategic partnership with brazil, but we in the european parliament, largely because of the socialist group, do not yet have a delegation to brazil and cannot follow brazil's policy. we can monitor economic affairs in mercosur, but we cannot monitor brazil's international political positions because we do not have a delegation of our own and this is a total failure of the european parliament which i hope will be remedied after the great vision contained in this saryusz-wolski report.
mr president, madam high representative, i would like to begin by congratulating our colleague, mr saryusz-wolski, on the excellent report he has brought to us. it is clear that the world today is experiencing the rise of new states to the status of powers, which in my view calls for a new approach and position of the european union in the face of these phenomena. the so-called brics are countries with very diverse histories, cultures, societies and political systems. there are geopolitical and historical antagonisms between them, and it is clear that they have different views on our fundamental values, such as democracy, freedom and respect for human rights. without neglecting the other countries, i believe we should strengthen our relations with those who not only nominally share these values, but who apply them consistently and with commitment, as is the case in brazil. while i am sure that the worlds of the cold war and the american unipolar moment have been able to coexist with the united nations security council, torn and effectively representative of military, demographic and cultural, i have the greatest doubts that everything can continue as it is. the perception of global citizenship cannot but be made up of the symbols and images of others. this is a valuable condition for maintaining the universality of western values. we must give concrete signs that we deserve the trust of our partners, that we not only have the support and common values, but that we are willing to work together and give them a voice on a global scale and allow their interpretation to be heard clearly. i would also like to mention the pioneering role played by my country, portugal, in welcoming and integrating the language of the other.
mr president, madam vice-president, ladies and gentlemen, in the process of rearranging forces taking place at world level, the majority of the european parliament now advocates convergence with the so-called brics countries, separately, fearing their unity and what it could mean for the weakening of the influence and dominance of the capitalist triad, which we consider to be the united states of america, japan and the european union, in the institutions of international capitalism. they want to contain their growth and the diversification of economic activity which calls into question the international division of labour and the role they wanted to give it, the role of producers of low value-added products. the time has passed when these countries were mainly exporters of raw materials and agricultural products. today they are gradually becoming major world powers, rivaling the triad, and some of them are even taking a reverse course from the european union in the fight against hunger and poverty which the wrong course and policies of the european union and the member states will increase among us. we, for our part, are in favour of establishing relations with all countries, refusing to classify them and regardless of differences, political, economic, social and cultural views, and ensuring mutual interest.
in writing. as this initiative notes, the mercosur agreement, if it comes into force, will be the most important association agreement ever signed by the eu, covering 750 million people and with trade worth $125 billion annually. on 8 november 2011, in a debate with the commissioner and the ministers of agriculture, i had the opportunity to ask the commissioner about the answers that the new agricultural policy would provide, so that producers could successfully face the competition problems that the mercosur agreement would bring to them. the commission then proposed that the answer to this problem should be the european globalisation adjustment fund. but the answer should have been to defend european agriculture in the agreement, and not this ill-adjusted proposal that has been put forward. i think that this proposal is far from being the answer to the real problems that our farmers would need to face in order to face the consequences that a possible agreement which does not protect the interests of european agriculture might bring to them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
mr president, the imposition of sanctions is a unilateral decision, a decision which cancels out the space which could and should be used for dialogue, negotiation, diplomatic mediation, a decision based on the imposition of the will of the strongest. it is reason's strength even though, as so often happens, it is against the strength of reason. the imposition of sanctions is an unacceptable act of interference in the internal affairs of a country by taking part in conflicts, by supporting one of the parties to the conflict against others. there are many sad examples of foreign interference by powers which change the political power of a country at their whim, promoting interlocutors willing to satisfy their imperial ambitions. the change in the political power of a country must be the result of the exercise of the sovereign will of its people and not of external impositions which will later charge these changes with the demand for the satisfaction of their interests. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. unfortunately, that is not the view of this report.
we consider it essential for the social and personal development of individuals that free and universal access to quality sport be guaranteed to all people without any discrimination. this right must be guaranteed by the member states, through support for sports organisations, but also for schools and the associative and popular movement which has a key role to play here. while we generally agree that the report under consideration is moving in the positive direction towards the promotion of sport, proposing a specific and ambitious budget for sport policy, we think, however, that funding for amateur sport should be safeguarded, not made dependent on the revenue from gambling. and we have another small problem: we think that the austerity measures being imposed by the general guidelines of the european union, which promote the retreat of the welfare state and public schools, are not at all compatible with the guidelines of this report.
the eurostat data on unemployment which have just been published are a living libel against this european union and its policies. in portugal, general unemployment is already 14%, 31% among young people, something never seen in 38 years of democracy. these are figures that prove the dramatic consequences of the imf and the european union's aggressive programme: more recession, more unemployment, a sharp rise in the cost of living, attacks on public services such as health and transport, the assault on strategic sectors of the country's economy, more inequalities, more poverty. these are figures and facts which throw to the wind the empty rhetoric of growth and employment which came out of the last european council. at the same time, the foreign debt - the justification used for this sordid program - will grow in 2012, subject to the country's loan sharking and predation of its resources through debt interest. this is a path that has no other way out than disaster. disaster that can be avoided with a different policy. more and more people are claiming it in portugal and throughout europe.
after berlin has imposed a technocratic prime minister on greece, do you think, mr president, that this country still needs a european finance minister? does mrs merkel not know that the worst thing you can do to a people is to humiliate them, to force them to crawl? mr president, in the soviet union under brezhnev there was a joke: the train of the revolution had lost its engine and the party, instead of fixing it, asked the passengers to jump. of course, the train wasn't moving, it was just wobbling. but because the gerons, the leaders of that country, could only pretend. the same is true of the present european leadership. they insist on the same recipe over and over again, despite the failure of the results. one day this will change, one day jobs will matter more than markets, one day we will stop pretending!
the rapporteur. - mr president, i am very pleased that the commissioner has taken this opportunity to speak. since its launch in 1997, this programme has been a real success with the people involved, as well as in terms of the effectiveness of the projects that have been funded. the report we are now discussing on the progress made and future prospects for the daphne programme was adopted in the committee on women's rights by almost unanimous vote, with only one abstention. the cooperation with the other political groups has been very fruitful and i would therefore like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for the very positive contributions they have made to this report. the fight against violence against children, young people and women remains a priority and unfortunately still makes sense. it is sufficient to take into account the new forms of violence that have emerged more recently with the increasing use of online social networks, as well as violence in kindergartens, mistreatment of the elderly and sexual assaults among adolescents. in addition, given the current economic crisis and budgetary constraints, it is necessary to avoid the financial impact of this type of crime on the judicial system and on social and health services. the costs of domestic violence have been estimated at €16 billion per year for the european union, including direct medical costs, costs of judicial and police activities, and social and economic costs. last november, the european commission announced that, as of 2014, the daphne programme will be integrated into the rights and citizenship programme. we have to admit that we would and would prefer that the programme retained its independence and autonomy. in the absence of such a possibility, i would like to highlight three concerns: first, to safeguard the objectives of the programme for the period 2014-2020; second, to maintain its funding at the same level as previous programmes; and third, to ensure its visibility within the future rights and citizenship programme. it is essential for the continued effectiveness of this programme to ensure that beneficiaries, public authorities and non-governmental organisations continue to be properly informed of the means of funding and the conditions of access. small organisations, which are by their nature closer to the phenomena of violence and very often have administrative difficulties, should be able to participate widely as they play a key role in detecting these problems and in the innovative way of addressing them. the balanced distribution of projects across the different member states should be taken into account. on the other hand, it is useful to collect regularly comparable data on the different types of violence in the european union in order to determine the real extent of the problem and to find appropriate solutions. i would like to conclude by stressing the important role of raising awareness of the phenomenon of violence through the media in the fields of education, health, the police and the judicial system.
i would like to say that access to renewable energy must really be a european objective, but not just a european but also a global one. there's no question that we've made fantastic technological progress in renewables. this progress was unthinkable 20 years ago, and so setting 2015 as our target for access to renewable energy is absolutely right. we all know about the destruction of a part of the sub-saharan african forest, for the use of biomass as the only and exclusive fuel. new solutions must be found. but in europe too, we have based renewable energy and its financing largely on full user payment. this is now under attack by everyone, particularly because of the crisis we are experiencing and also because of the nuclear lobby. that is why we support the commission in these measures.
as the epp's shadow rapporteur on this matter, i would like to start by congratulating mr smith on the extraordinary work he has done. this is a matter that is often ideological, in which there are different options, and which has been able to reach broad consensus. it is a report which deals with current issues but which raises many of the challenges we face in terms of tax harmonization, in terms of the taxation of companies, in terms of the degree of taxation that states are currently practicing in a situation of financial crisis. the question of tax competition within europe and with third countries is indeed fundamental. the european union must have competitive tax systems as a way of bringing wealth, as a way of bringing investment into our much needed space.
in writing. - i approve the report. it is in the european union's interest to promote coordination with the brics and the emerging powers, given the growing importance of these countries in the world in various fields. just as there is already permanent coordination between them, the eu should, by way of example, promote the coordination of positions for meetings such as the united nations general assembly or strategic partnerships in other areas, provided that the interests of eu member states and their citizens are not compromised. as such, it will be appropriate to develop these diplomatic efforts through an institutional mechanism, perhaps from the eu external relations service, which can deal with these countries in a coherent and permanent manner.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to congratulate my party colleague and rapporteur, mr jacek saryusz-wolski, on the conciliation work carried out within the afet committee, which has resulted in a very comprehensive own-initiative report in terms of the subjects covered and very inclusive in terms of the involvement of the different parliamentary groups. although i prefer the division between the designations civet (colombia, indonesia, vietnam, egypt, turkey and south africa) and bric (brazil, russia, india and china) to designate the world's major emerging economies, i believe that, because i consider that this separation between the two groups of emerging economies brings greater precision to the strategic analysis of their relations with the eu, this report proposes a number of very important measures for the future of our relations with the brics (this designation includes south africa), which should obviously be taken into account by the union. first of all, because of the importance attached to multilateralism in international relations, but also because of the greater involvement of the brics in economic development policies on a global scale and the strengthening of the role of the european parliamentary dimension in relations with these countries, which i consider to be fundamental for the establishment of lasting ties at international level.
in writing. - the report under review, by mr saryusz-wolski, deals with the european union's external policy - objectives and strategies - towards the so-called brics countries (brazil, russia, india, china and south africa) and other emerging-economy powers. brics is not a homogeneous bloc, as they are located in different geographical areas, have divergent pasts and do not equally embrace the values of the european union. they represent 40% of the world's population, 17% of world gross domestic product and often take concerted positions. the eu, while upholding its principles and values, cannot ignore the increasingly important role of these emerging economies and must work together to tackle the problems affecting the planet, such as climate change, terrorism, sustainable development, access to raw materials, political stability and global security. i voted in favour of this report and i support the proposal by mr paulo rangel to set up a delegation of this parliament for brazil, as is already the case with other countries, not least because it is the only country that speaks an official language of the eu.
in writing. - recognising the growing importance of the brics in the world economy, the report affirms the need for the eu to strengthen relations with each of these countries. the concern is, however, to consider them separately. some of the reasons are clear: the growth and diversification of economic activity in the brics is challenging the traditional international division of labour, which is unfavourable to these countries. their role is no longer limited to that of producers of low value-added products and exporters of raw materials and agricultural products to the countries at the centre of the capitalist system. today, they are gradually becoming great world powers, rivaling the triad - the united states, japan and the european union. some of them are even going the opposite way of the eu in the fight against hunger and poverty. it is worth remembering that in a few years, in a process not without great contradictions, millions of human beings have been lifted out of extreme poverty in china, india and brazil. it is a fact that brics have been converging on a number of internationally relevant issues. the positions that the brics have been taking on the international stage, their concertation, is increasingly perceived as a threat to the influence and dominance of the triad. in particular, in the institutions of international capitalism (the world bank, the imf, the g20).
in writing. − the brics (brazil, russia, india, china and south africa) and other emerging economies have been gaining great foreign policy relevance on the world stage as their growth has increased. in a future global economic outlook, seven emerging countries (brazil, russia, india, china, indonesia, mexico and turkey) are expected to have economies larger than the g7 countries as a whole (usa, japan, canada, uk, germany, france and italy) by 2050. the creation of a common platform in terms of foreign policy is thus necessary, and the creation of a new system of global governance, sufficiently inclusive of the brics and other emerging powers and based on common values, is beneficial for this. it is therefore urgent to discuss the foundations of a new inclusive system of global governance and to make recommendations, identifying key areas for reform where the eu can make its action and institutional architecture more efficient, and thus increase its potential and effectiveness as a global actor.
in writing. − while i voted in favour of the report on the eu's foreign policy towards the brics and other emerging powers: objectives and strategies, as it is overall positive, i cannot, however, follow the passage where it is proposed to entrust the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy/vice-president of the commission (hr) with the coordination of foreign and security policy with other sectoral eu policies, such as external trade policy. i understand that this proposal makes no sense in the light of the treaty of lisbon. firstly, these are two very different policies, subject to very different regimes in the union treaties. under the treaty, the hr is only competent to conduct the union's foreign and security policy and not to coordinate the union's various external action policies, in particular its external trade policy. thirdly, if there is a need for such coordination, it is the hr, together with the commissioner for external trade, who has the responsibility for it, without this implying any authority or hierarchy of the former over the latter. the proposal will therefore represent an unacceptable change in the balance and distribution of powers between the institutions and bodies of the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its main objective, which is to discuss the foundations of a new system of inclusive global governance and to make recommendations, identifying crucial areas for reform where the eu can make its action and institutional architecture more efficient and thereby increase its potential and effectiveness as a global actor with the so-called emerging economies, which are, among others, the brics (brazil, russia, india, china and south africa).
in writing. − the brics (brazil, russia, india, china and south africa) and other emerging economies can become highly relevant in terms of foreign policy on the world stage. in fact, it is estimated that by 2050, these states, together with indonesia, mexico and turkey, will have economies larger than the g7 countries combined. this new political and economic weight of the brics and other emerging powers should be duly weighed by the eu in the design of its foreign policy: the economic rise of these states will necessarily lead to a redefinition of the model of world political and economic governance. it is therefore urgent to start thinking about the eu's strategy for the near future, seeking to place these states within the circle of the community's foreign policy and preserve the eu's place as a committed and influential actor in the multipolar system of global governance that is being envisaged. i therefore voted in favour of this report, particularly welcoming the fact that the door has been opened here for the creation of a european parliament delegation for relations with brazil. this is an objective for which we have fought so hard and i hope that it can now finally be achieved.
in writing. - the international relations we are witnessing today reflect a loss of dominance by europe and the usa as the supposed holders of economic, cultural, political and humanistic supremacy. the dynamics built and developed in terms of multilateralism, in particular the composition of the un and the cs and other international organisations, have been implemented and adapted to the existing international system. today, we have a set of countries that have created a common platform of understanding in the field of foreign policy, the so-called brics -- brazil, russia, india, china and south africa -- and other emerging economies like indonesia, mexico and turkey, that want a global, multipolar system of governance. in terms of international action, brics already has common positions on a number of current issues. the reform of the international institutional framework is beyond doubt. today's problems are transnational, so they require global, non-state solutions. for global stability and security, brics emerges as essential partners where close cooperation, consultation, dialogue and consensus are urgently needed.
in writing. the report recognises the growing importance of the brics in the world economy and the need for the eu to strengthen relations with these countries. the crisis of capitalism is not only made more serious by the contribution of these countries to world output. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the negotiations on the future of the eu, and for the eu to be able to play a more active role in the negotiations on the future of the eu. they want to curb their growth and the diversification of economic activity, which calls into question the international division of labour and the role they wanted to give them as producers of low value-added products. today, the brics are becoming progressively major world powers, rivaling the triad, some of them taking a reverse course to the eu in the fight against hunger and poverty, which the wrong course and policies of the eu and the member states will increase among us. we, for our part, are in favour of establishing relations with all countries, refusing to classify them and regardless of differences in political, economic, social and cultural views, ensuring mutual interest.
in writing. - i approve the report because it is balanced. consistency in the application of restrictive measures to certain states and, consequently, their leaders is essential to the credibility of the eu's foreign policy. in this respect, we must continue to set an example for the world by applying non-violent coercive measures to those who violate human rights and democratic values.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a coherent policy towards regimes against which the eu applies restrictive measures, because i believe that a more coherent and effective strategy towards authoritarian regimes is needed, including measures to prevent authoritarian leaders from benefiting from the proceeds of corruption and the possibility of transferring funds.
in writing. - it is well known that many of the authoritarian leaders in other parts of the world, as well as their families and clients, have diverted assets from their own countries and made investments in europe. it is often seen as a potential haven and a safe place to invest and put savings. against this disturbing circumstance, a number of measures have been taken to sanction these practices and restrict the movement of persons and goods involved, which are clearly not consistent and have not produced the desired effects, particularly as regards the desired political change in the countries of origin. this position of the european parliament, which i welcome, cannot be successful if the member states do not understand the importance of effectively articulating their responses to such problems and if they do not involve the people and civil society organisations of the sanctioned states in order to contribute to a collective awareness of these problems and to a much-needed paradigm shift in governance and the management of public goods.
in writing. - the european union's territory and its banking institutions are often chosen by leaders of developing countries, where democracy is slow to take hold, to deposit large sums of money (hosni mubarak of egypt, 50 to 70 million deposited in the eu and the us; gaddafi of libya, billions of dollars in assets in the eu; omar al-bashir of sudan, 4 billion dollars in the eu; etc.) the report by graham watson is on a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council for the eu to implement a policy of coherence with regard to schemes against which the eu applies restrictive measures when their managers have personal and commercial interests within the eu territory. i voted in favour of this report because those who rule authoritarian regimes and enrich themselves through corruption and exploitation of the people and resources of that country must be obliged to respect human dignity. they cannot act with complete freedom and impunity in the face of the impotence and often complacency of international institutions. the eu must set an example by confiscating these assets and returning them to democratically elected governments.
in writing. - the application of the principles contained in this report is contrary to international law and the charter of the united nations. the latter advocates, among other things, friendly relations between nations based on respect for the principle of equal rights and self-determination of peoples and international cooperation to solve international problems of an economic, social, cultural or humanitarian nature. these are the principles which should guide international relations. this report defines an approach based on interference in the internal affairs of states. sanctions are one of the instruments of this approach. on the other hand, the explicit advocacy of support for parties to the conflict, aimed at regime change or changes of political power in certain countries, constitutes unacceptable interference, which invariably carries with it undisguised ambitions to satisfy economic and/or geopolitical interests. as we have said on many occasions, changes in the political power of a country must be the result of the exercise of the sovereign will of its people and not of external impositions.
in writing. − the new article 21 teu, as introduced by article 1 (24) of the treaty of lisbon, recognises that the union's actions are based on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law. sanctions are applied in pursuit of the objectives of the cfsp as set out in article 21 teu, which include the promotion of international peace and security, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, the consolidation of democracy and good governance. however, the application of sanctions or restrictive measures is only effective if it is part of a coherent and comprehensive human rights strategy of the european union and its member states. it is therefore necessary that, when imposing sanctions on states which do not promote international peace and security, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law, the consolidation of democracy and good governance, the interests of each member state should not interfere.
in writing. − on the basis of an own-initiative report, the european parliament voted on 2 february 2012 in favour of a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on a coherent policy towards regimes against which the eu applies restrictive measures when their managers have personal and commercial interests within the eu's borders. these measures are intended to prevent capital flight from these countries. it is estimated that over the past two decades some 150 billion dollars have flowed out of certain north african countries (algeria, morocco and tunisia) from authoritarian leaders and their circles, when restrictive measures were already in place by the european institutions. for the sake of consistency, it is called for the strict application of financial sanctions or restrictive measures by all member states to these countries.
in writing. − the european union is founded on the principle of the dignity of the human person, and its line of action includes the defence of political regimes based on the representativeness of citizens and respect for the fundamental rights of the person. the natural corollary is the rejection of authoritarian regimes which, instead of pursuing the common good of the peoples represented, are directed to the satisfaction of the personal interests of the holders of public offices. in this context, it is justified that any measures adopted by the european union clearly identify, on the one hand, the subjects who are subject to the sanction and, on the other hand, already at the time of determining the applicable sanction, that targeted measures are adopted for the subjects to be sanctioned, seeking to avoid, where possible, that peoples also suffer. any guidelines which may be found must also be taken up by all member states in order to ensure an effective foreign policy; the european union must also take account of the fact that a large part of the personal property of the leaders who are subject to sanctions is located in the european union, which opens the door to more effective action by the eu. that is the spirit of this recommendation, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu's external action must be based on the constituent principles, as expressed in article 2 of the eu treaty, and on a strategic, coherent, comprehensive and transparent policy, when imposing any type of sanctions, avoiding duplication of criteria. the imposition of general or selective sanctions should target those responsible and maximise the safeguarding of the most vulnerable population. i therefore support the content of this report when it states that economic and financial sanctions imposed on the relevant officials and/or legal persons and/or entities should also cover all financial and property assets established in eu territory. to this end, it is necessary to develop clear criteria for the application of sanctions and for the coordination of sanctions between member states in order to assess the assets of persons included in the sanctions list for the possible confiscation of those assets. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament be informed from the outset and throughout the sanctions procedure.
in writing. − the imposition of sanctions is a unilateral decision and therefore a negative principle for the dialogue-based resolution of conflicts. the establishment of sanctions means the cancellation of the space that could and should be used for dialogue, negotiation and diplomatic mediation. we do not accept acts of direct interference and meddling in the internal affairs of countries by supporting one of the parties to the conflict, which are often added to sanctions. the sad examples of recent times are varied, in which external powers have directly interfered in the political changes of a country, by various means of supporting one of the parties to the conflict in a country, without this being done, obviously, in a disinterested way. it is the peoples who must decide their own destiny and future, without being subject to pressure and interference from outside powers. the unilateral decision to impose sanctions is part of this logic which does not respect the sovereignty of the peoples. what is needed is scrupulous respect for international law, the charter of the united nations and the principles contained in it.
in writing. - i vote in favour. there is obviously a fundamental aspect to be taken into account in these processes of relocating the headquarters of companies from one member state to another: the need to involve workers in decisions on this matter and, to this end, to seek to improve their participation in the social bodies of the companies. we also need to consider the use of fiscal dumping as a means of attracting firms from one member state to another. we believe that this is one of the key aspects that must be changed and that it distorts the functioning of the single market. as such, firm action by the commission is required and expected as soon as possible.
in writing. - the presentation of a legislative proposal by the european commission in this respect is essential. european legislation on the transfer of registered or actual head offices and the arrangements for transferring them from one member state to another should be harmonised. in the context of the single market, it is important to ensure the mobility of companies, to reduce the high administrative burden and the social and tax costs, while always seeking to ensure tax neutrality conditions with regard to cross-border transfer of headquarters. i therefore support the rapporteur's conclusions, since it fully underpins respect for the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. - the full functioning of the single market - one of the main objectives underlying the creation of the european union - despite the rights enshrined in the european treaties and regulations, still has many obstacles to overcome. the report under review, by evelyn regner, is about parliament's recommendations to the commission to move forward with a 14th directive on the right of companies to transfer their registered offices from one member state to another, which is already enshrined in eu regulations. once workers' rights are safeguarded, it is essential that companies can move their headquarters, as this can save time and money. however, legal uncertainties and bureaucracy which differs from one member state to another have prevented it from becoming a reality. the legislation must also prevent abuse and opportunism, such as the setting up of companies reduced to a simple e-mail box. because this is not the first time that the ep has pressed the commission to come forward with a proposal in this area and because i believe that this is a measure which will benefit the european economy, in particular small and mediumsized enterprises, by making them more competitive at world level, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report argues that crossborder migration of companies is one of the key elements in the completion of the internal market and that, at the level of employment, the transfer of headquarters should be guided by the principle of flexibility, with a view to a more flexible market. here is further proof that the majority in the ep is seeking to deepen the neoliberal orientation that has led to the current financial, economic and social crisis in the eu. the majority of meps want to keep the free movement of capital, tax havens and offshore companies untouched, which are the direct causes of the worsening of the current serious situation. the portuguese are well aware of the case of the company jerónimo martins, which moved its personal and family holdings to the netherlands in order to pay less tax. the solutions of the majority of the ep will only bring more unemployment, injustice and social tragedies to the workers and the people. for these reasons, we voted against.
in writing. - articles 49 and 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union guarantee freedom of establishment to all companies. we all know that crossborder migration of companies is one of the fundamental elements in the completion of the internal market. similarly, the lack of uniformity in the legislation on transfer and in the procedures for transferring the registered or actual seat of an existing company under national law from one member state to another within the framework of the single market, as well as the employment risk, administrative difficulties, costs, social implications and lack of legal certainty, delay the final establishment of an increasingly effective internal market. it is therefore very important that all member states harmonize in this area.
in writing. − this report makes recommendations to the commission on a 14th company law directive on crossborder transfer of registered offices. the european parliament makes seven recommendations, including one on workers' rights, namely that workers' participation rights should be preserved in the context of the transfer and that workers' participation should be governed by the legislation of the host member state. this will, in our view, avoid the transfer of jobs for the sake of reducing labour costs.
in writing. - this own-initiative report aims to lay the foundations for further harmonisation of tax laws within the european union, as a way of combating the attempts at tax fraud we have seen in recent times. this document is intended to ensure that the processes of crossborder transfer of head offices do not affect the rights of interested parties, such as minority shareholders, employees and creditors, existing before the transfer. this avoids, in the event of insolvency or any other similar proceedings, the escape of a company from its obligations. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. - economic activity, from producer to final consumer, is based on a system of trade between trading companies. since the community is based on the recognition of the freedom of establishment of companies, company law must be a privileged subject of regulation, since in that context a number of barriers to the proper functioning of the internal market can be created. the european parliament therefore recommends that the commission submit a 14th directive on the crossborder transfer of registered offices. in this context, the interests of shareholders, who should not have their pre-transfer rights postponed by the relocation of the company's headquarters, the interest of the company itself and, finally, the interests of the employees and all those who interact with it, will have to be weighed. this is a step whose necessity was confirmed by the court of justice in the cartesio case. in this context, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the european parliament hereby calls on the commission to submit swiftly, on the basis of article 50 (1) and (2) (g) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a proposal for a directive on the crossborder transfer of the registered offices of companies, taking into account its recommendations. cross-border migration of companies is a key element in the completion of the internal market and the lack of uniformity in the legislation on transfer and the modalities for transferring the registered or actual seat of a company under national law from one member state to another within the single market entails employment risks, administrative difficulties, costs, social implications and legal uncertainty.
in writing. - the free movement of capital, tax havens and offshore financial centres, which are still largely untouched, have contributed decisively to the financial, economic and social crisis the world is going through. this report is further proof that the majority of the ep wants to keep these guidelines intact, maintaining and seeking to reinforce the neoliberal approach that has brought us to this situation. this report is yet another demonstration of this option, on a subject which particularly concerns the portuguese, who have only recently seen a large company, jerónimo martins, locate its personal and family holdings in the netherlands to escape tax evasion. it is unacceptable that the ep should continue to point out ways which will only bring more unemployment, injustice and social tragedies to the workers and the people. that is why we voted against this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report because it appropriately identifies areas where the implementation of eu support funds for humanitarian aid should be more closely monitored. as in other areas of expenditure, perhaps even more so in the present circumstances, the eu is required to be rigorous and to promote transparency, as this does not imply that the humanitarian objectives under which the funds in question are allocated are called into question. this is an important point, and one which is independent of the subjects dealt with in this report: the eu must remain at the forefront of this fight for greater equality, seeking to improve the living conditions of the poorest in a sustainable way, supporting them when their difficulties result from circumstantial or structural conditions.
in writing. the european union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid. the european commission's directorate-general for humanitarian aid is responsible for the implementation of humanitarian aid, with its mandate covering humanitarian assistance and civil protection, the two main instruments at the eu's disposal to ensure the provision of humanitarian assistance to victims of disasters and protracted conflicts. the current budgetary constraints resulting from the current economic, financial and social crisis highlight the importance of sound financial management of resources, based on the principles of economy, effectiveness and efficiency. this report, which i supported, welcomes the increased flexibility and efficiency allowed by the framework partnership agreement which includes a more results-oriented approach. the european commission is also asked to improve the assessment methods and practices to verify whether a potential partner fulfils the criteria set out in the framework partnership agreement. the european commission services are also called upon to put greater emphasis on disaster risk reduction (drr), disaster preparedness, strengthening the resilience of populations at risk through capacity building, training, awareness raising and the establishment of effective early warning systems.
in writing. − this own-initiative report on budgetary control of eu humanitarian aid managed by echo (the european commission's directorate-general for the implementation of eu humanitarian aid) proposes a number of measures which have been strongly supported in this house. the importance of this monitoring is made all the more relevant by the fact that the eu (commission + member states) is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid - €2,957 million in 2010 (member states: 64%; funds channelled through the commission: 36%) - and that echo has 40 offices around the world providing support to some 200 organisations. greater efficiency and effectiveness. sustainability, coherence and complementarity of humanitarian aid actions. these are the major issues that this report is addressing, proposing, for example, that cost-observed methods for results be used in the choice of partners, that there be a faster response by the eu to natural disasters and that evaluations and audits, involving the european parliament more in their analysis, be constant and systematic in order to understand effectively what has happened to the aid we have sent to third countries, such as the horn of africa, haiti or pakistan.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on budgetary control of eu humanitarian aid, because it includes measures to improve the efficiency and effectiveness of eu humanitarian aid.
in writing. − while it is gratifying to know that the european union is the world's largest donor, this very fact necessarily implies the wish that the aid provided is well used and reaches those who really need it. unfortunately, there are frequent reports of misuse of aid by the authorities of the states receiving it and even of its diversion to the detriment of the needy populations, often in a situation of health and food emergency. one of the mechanisms available to the union to assess the way humanitarian aid is delivered is, of course, budgetary control. the measures proposed by the commission are designed to increase the transparency of the humanitarian aid budget and to hold those who manage it to account. i hope they bear good fruit. i regret that the rapporteur has introduced the subject of abortion on demand in his report in a way that is not only untimely but also disrespects the different positions of the member states on this subject.
in writing. - one of the principles that best characterises the eu is solidarity. in the face of disasters, whether they occur on european soil or on another continent, europeans are ready to help these communities immediately. the present own-initiative report, drawn up by mr martin ehrenhauser, deals with the use of the european union's financial resources for humanitarian aid, taking into account the recommendations contained in the report of the european court of auditors, in particular as regards the control of funds transferred to non-governmental organisations. the bureaucracy involved in implementing many of the humanitarian aid programmes is sometimes such that the cost-benefit ratio of interventions is far from satisfactory. in addition, there are large cost differences between comparable projects, which is unacceptable. without jeopardizing the continuity of these programmes, measures must therefore be taken to increase their effectiveness. i voted in favour of this report because the proposals contained in it, in addition to a clear commitment to preventing new disasters, are aimed at greater transparency in the allocation of funds and a better evaluation of the results achieved.
in writing. − dg echo is responsible for the implementation of humanitarian aid in the eu. its mandate includes humanitarian assistance and civil protection. to carry out its mandate, it provides funding to some 200 partners. the report makes some criticisms of echo's current budgetary management which we think are appropriate. emphasising criticism of poor control and monitoring of the use of eu funds. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's humanitarian aid is not used as a weapon. these include the need for greater control and accountability in the indirect management of eu funds and the strengthening of the eu's response capacity to major natural disasters, i.e. a more realistic budget and a consistent balance between the financing of actions to prevent humanitarian disasters and those to respond quickly to emergencies.
in writing. − a regular evaluation of partners and ex-ante control should be carried out to assess the adequacy of the partners, dg echo, dg echo services and experts on the ground should closely monitor the implementation of projects by monitoring the progress of each project on a daily basis. in addition, the commission should monitor projects through a network of experts in the field and regular visits by sectoral geographical services, auditors and management elements. partners should also be required to submit reports after the completion of the operation to prove their expenditure. approximately 10 evaluations will be carried out on average per year, focusing on actions implemented in countries of significant size (i.e. actions receiving funding of up to around eur 50 million and not evaluated in the last three years), partners and thematic issues. only this monitoring will make it possible to assess whether the eu's aid is actually being applied properly.
in writing. - the fact that the european union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid does not exempt it from additional responsibilities. the report aims, inter alia, to promote the selection and evaluation of partners, based on an assessment by the commission of the compliance of humanitarian organisations with the conditions set out in the humanitarian aid regulation and the financial regulation. the european parliament has been campaigning for the inclusion in humanitarian aid agreements of rules to ensure that funds are used correctly, that projects are monitored, that human rights are respected and that projects financed are audited. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - echo is the european commission's directorate-general for community aid. its role in humanitarian aid is of the highest importance, as the eu, in aggregate terms (taking the commission and the member states together), is the largest donor in the world. as with any public funds, however, and especially in a global context of economic crisis, the aid award process should be simple in order to reduce costs that are considered unnecessary on the one hand and to facilitate access by beneficiaries to the funds. good financial management is therefore a prerequisite without which any policy of this kind is doomed to failure. this motion for a resolution sets out a budgetary analysis of the eu humanitarian aid policy managed by echo, with a view to making better use of the available resources. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu, together with the member states, is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid with a total of €2957 million in 2010. maintaining this policy is essential to mark the role that the eu and its members play in achieving the millennium development goals. the largest share of humanitarian aid funding goes to the african continent, which is, according to 2010 data, 42%. the eu, from this amount and aggregated reserves, funds some 200 partners, ranging from ngos to international organisations such as the un's specialised agencies. this support is intended for humanitarian assistance and civil protection for victims of disasters and protracted conflicts. establishing control levels to ensure that funding is implemented and holding both donors and recipients accountable is key. on the other hand, there should be more coordination between the eu and the member states for a comprehensive strategy for planning, financing and implementing the available humanitarian aid.
in writing. − dg echo, responsible for the implementation of eu humanitarian aid, covers humanitarian assistance and civil protection, funding some 200 partners for their implementation. the report criticises echo's current budgetary management, highlighting the poor control and monitoring of the use of eu funds. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively and that the eu's financial instruments are used effectively. this is a more realistic approach to the budget, seeking to maintain a coherent balance between the financing of actions aimed at preventing humanitarian disasters and those aimed at responding rapidly to emergency situations.
in writing. - i support this report because it advocates the idea that justice should be accessible to all european citizens and because it calls on the commission to present complementary measures to ensure the full exercise of this right, particularly in the area of collective actions. in the european area of justice, citizens and businesses must enjoy effective and efficient protection of the rights guaranteed by eu law. it is therefore important to provide for strong safeguards against abusive litigation, as provided for in the commission's horizontal consultation, and to protect consumers and small and medium-sized enterprises with safeguard procedures, particularly in the competition or consumer sectors.
in writing. - the right to compensation for damage suffered (compensation) is essential in any legal system. this is already safeguarded in the various national jurisdictions. however, i think caution is necessary when it comes to class action. on the one hand, we do not want to open the door to a system like the american one, in which the abuse of rights is a common practice, putting the activity of thousands of companies in doubt. secondly, because in the area of competition, the existence of a class action will lead to consumers who have been harmed by an anticompetitive practice, punishable under the provisions of the tfeu, being able to claim damages in the future. this will lead to the simultaneous application of fines and compensation to consumers harmed by such practices. again, this could have dramatic effects on businesses. i therefore believe that we should proceed with caution on this matter and i prefer alternative dispute settlement mechanisms which are cheaper, quicker and, in many cases, more effective. finally, i think it is essential that the ep should continue to play an active role in this area.
in writing. - the present report, by klaus-heiner lehne, is about the european union's openness to a coherent approach to collective action and the need to provide for consistent safeguards to avoid abusive litigation. improving access to justice for european citizens has been a concern of the eu, which has adopted several regulations and directives on this matter over the past few years. it is not the legal tradition in europe to settle disputes between individuals by resorting to a legal body. given the complexity of the matter and the different modes of operation in the various member states, harmonisation between most branches of national law is essential and, in the absence of such harmonisation, it is preferable that defendants be tried in the courts of their place of residence and have the right to refuse to take part in a class action. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that, as justice is a matter which affects the lives of all citizens in a very profound way, this parliament must be actively involved in the whole ordinary legislative process until a solution is found which covers the whole of the european union.
in writing. − this report provides that compliance with national legislation cannot stand in the way of uniform application of european union legislation, making clear the intention to create a horizontal system that supersedes eu legislation over national legislation. we are not against a european approach to collective action, providing for strong safeguards against abusive litigation. but we disagree that, driven by an objective need that transcends borders, the transfer of more elements of national sovereignty to the eu should be promoted. we believe that the way forward could be different, namely through the establishment of agreements between countries to enable them to tackle this problem, while preserving their sovereignty and maintaining the elements which this proposal seeks to transfer.
in writing. − this report is about a european approach to collective action and the commitment to provide strong safeguards against abusive litigation. the report provides answers, in a good way, to some legal items which are crucial in view of the structure of this legal instrument. the document is against the idea of copying the us system, with the aim of not allowing excessive and abusive practices, and takes into account the systems of the 27 member states. many member states have recently created collective instruments which allow, to some extent, collective access to justice. this report also highlights the benefits of class action lawsuits in terms of lower costs. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − i believe that in the european area of justice, citizens and businesses must enjoy effective and efficient protection of the rights that eu law guarantees them. in the case of widespread or massive damage, victims of unlawful acts may therefore refrain from seeking compensation, since the costs of obtaining individual redress may be disproportionate to the damage suffered. however, particular emphasis should continue to be placed on the enforcement of eu law by european and national public authorities, since these authorities have public law investigative tools that cannot be extrapolated to natural persons, so that the enforcement of legislation by private individuals continues to take on a complementary character.
in writing. − in this report, concerns are raised about abusive class actions. it is a common legal instrument in the anglo-saxon countries. the legal tradition of the european union is more oriented towards the resolution of disputes between natural persons than towards resolution through a legal entity. with this own-initiative report, the european parliament is contributing to the horizontal consultation initiated by the european commission. this consultation demonstrates the commission's openness to a european approach to collective action and its commitment to providing robust safeguards against abusive litigation. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the regulation of legal and procedural matters is one of the most sensitive areas of community law. it is therefore understandable that community legislation has started by standardising the common criteria for determining the international jurisdiction of courts by establishing common criteria for determining the substantive law applicable to certain types of dispute, by supporting alternative means of dispute resolution or, furthermore, by introducing procedural models for small claims. the regulation of collective action at community level therefore represents a breakthrough in this field: in this context, there will be a type of litigation relationship mass litigation with uniform regulation throughout the community. this is a measure which may be resisted, since the legislation to be introduced may conflict with certain features of national procedural law. in any event, i believe that this reflection should be carried out and should be seen as an opportunity to rethink the law governing the organisation of the judiciary in the various member states.
in writing. − consumers face significant difficulties in terms of effectiveness and accessibility when they individually wish to bring a legal action, which is all the more relevant in the face of the increasing integration of european markets and the consequent increase in cross-border activities. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the european union must adopt an integrated and coherent approach to dealing with cases where consumers are unprotected, making the most of joint action by several citizens. i also consider it essential that the measures proposed are designed to reduce the costs of litigation and to increase legal certainty for applicants, defendants and the judicial system. however, it will be necessary to take account of the traditions and legal systems of each member state and the dissemination of good practice at european union level should be encouraged.
in writing. − this initiative makes explicit the intention to create a horizontal system and a uniform application of eu law, overriding national legislation. we are not against a european approach to collective action, providing for strong safeguards against abusive litigation. but we disagree that, driven by an objective need that can cross borders, the transfer of more elements of national sovereignty to the eu should be promoted. we believe that the way forward could be different, namely through the establishment of agreements between countries to enable them to tackle this problem, while preserving their sovereignty and maintaining the elements which this proposal seeks to transfer.
in writing. − i agree because nutrition and health claims must not be false, ambiguous or misleading. the opposition to this list of nutrition claims arises from the fact that the draft commission regulation is not compatible with the purpose and content of the basic act. the commission must submit an amended draft.
in writing. − according to article 3 of regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, nutrition and health claims must not be false, ambiguous or misleading. according to that regulation, those claims should be worded in such a way that the average consumer can understand them and, where comparable, the comparison term should cover a range of foods of the same category and of different brands. the motion for a resolution under consideration contains, pursuant to rule 88 (2), parliament's opposition to the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 on the list of nutrition claims, on the grounds that it is vitiated by certain defects, such as contradicting the purpose and content of the basic legal act in that it is ambiguous, misleading and confusing for the average consumer. i therefore voted in favour of this motion for a resolution calling on the commission to submit a new proposal to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this resolution which opposed the adoption of the draft commission regulation, which would amend another regulation, which relates to the list of nutrition claims. the proposed introduction of the claim now containing x% less of [nutrition name] violates the principle of comparative claims, which allows, among other things, the comparison of the nutritional values of a product with a previous version of the same product, regardless of the starting level concerned. there is also the problem that this type of claim discourages producers from reformulating their products more substantially, as it is easier to reduce 15% of a nutrient than the percentage needed to make the product light or low in content. in the end, with this proposal, which fortunately was rejected by parliament, it was the consumer who lost in terms of the clarity, relevance and objectivity of the information provided to him. the european commission is now invited to submit an amended draft of these measures.
in writing. − nutrition and health claims should not be false, ambiguous or misleading, and the use of nutrition and health claims should only be allowed if it is plausible that the average consumer will understand the beneficial effects expressed in the claim. therefore, comparative nutrition claims should compare the composition of the food in question with a range of foods in the same category, including foods from other brands. in this way, information on foodstuffs should not mislead the consumer as to the nature, properties and characteristics of the foodstuff.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution of 2 february 2012 stating the european parliament's opposition to the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 as regards the list of nutrition claims. the european parliament considers that comparative nutrition claims should compare the composition of the food in question with a range of foods in the same category, including foods from other brands. furthermore, information on foodstuffs should not mislead the consumer as to the nature, properties and characteristics of the foodstuff. in this context, it considers that the new nutrition claim proposed by the commission now containing x% less of [name of nutrient] to be included in the annex to regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 is contrary to the purpose and content of the basic legal act, as it is ambiguous, misleading and confusing for the average consumer, and therefore requests the commission to withdraw it and to submit to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety an amended draft of measures.
in writing. − the commission has presented a draft regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 as regards the list of nutrition claims. following the examination of the proposed amendments to the draft regulation, the committee on the environment, public health and food safety identified a number of provisions which, if accepted, could mislead consumers as to the characteristics of products available on the market and therefore opposed the adoption of the regulation. i voted in favour of the proposal because i believe that, following the arguments put forward by the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, these provisions would violate the fundamental principles of consumer protection.
in writing. − according to article 3 of european commission regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, nutrition and health claims must not be false, ambiguous or misleading and it is important to inform consumers about the nature, properties and characteristics of the foodstuffs contained in the products. however, the new nutrition claim proposed by the commission seeks to adopt a comparative measure as it now contains x% less of another nutrient, thus contradicting the purpose and content of the basic act in that it is ambiguous, misleading and confusing for the average consumer. i would also point out that the principle of comparing the nutritional values of a product with an earlier version of the same product could lead to unfair competition with other products available on the market, since a product which has not been reformulated but has a lower content of a particular nutrient than the reformulated product of another brand cannot make a nutritional claim. in this respect, i am voting in favour of this report which opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation amending regulation no 1924/2006, and calls on the commission to submit a draft with new measures to the committee on the environment, public health and food safety of the european parliament.
in writing. - the gue/ngl group has tabled a resolution with which i do not agree. this is because it is considered essential that member states adopt measures rapidly to stimulate economic growth and job creation, with particular attention to young people. i also agree with the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the european union, as it focuses on instruments other than those which have contributed to the current economic and financial crisis, and gives particular importance to social cohesion, in particular wealth creation, job creation and the fight against poverty.
in writing. - i approve. it would have been preferable for the council to produce an agreement within the legal framework already in force in the eu, and i also regret that the united kingdom prefers to stay out of this resolution. despite the need to consolidate public accounts by controlling deficits, i reiterate the urgent need to adopt measures to promote growth and employment. as such, i look forward to the commission's follow-up to the intentions it has set out at this european council.
in writing. - although the european parliament was initially not very receptive to the adoption of this agreement, it was possible to improve the latest version of the text and ensure that the objectives of economic growth and job creation in the european union were included in the new treaty. member states need to stabilise public finances. austerity measures and fiscal stability are only part of the solution to the crisis. europe is facing an ageing population and, on the other hand, the unemployment rate among young people is at an all-time high, which puts member states in a position to face enormous challenges. to overcome these obstacles, member states should implement structural reforms. europe must also focus on measures that lead to economic growth and promote competitiveness. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution. however, the rapid establishment of a bailout fund, the creation of euro bonds and the introduction of a financial transaction tax at european level are still needed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusions of the informal european council of 30 january 2012 because i consider that the final text of the agreement improves on some aspects of the initial text, incorporating some amendments proposed by parliament, notably as regards the application of the community method and the commitment to incorporate the content of the agreement into the eu legal framework within five years. i think, however, that it would have been desirable to have reached an agreement within the framework of eu law, including measures for economic recovery and the promotion of sustainable growth and employment.
in writing. the european parliament rightly disagreed with the decision of the heads of state or government to move towards a treaty on international law, outside community law, to strengthen the economic governance of the union. however, significant gains were made in the latest version of the treaty on stability, coordination and governance, approved by the council on 30 january, towards greater integration with the six-pack and commitment to the application of the community method. we now expect swift and concrete action to establish the european stability mechanism as a permanent rescue fund with enhanced financial capacity to safeguard the stability of the euro. as regards the commitment to growth and jobs, it is essential that it be successful, since austerity and fiscal consolidation, without economic growth, risks being a cure that will not solve the ills we suffer from.
in writing. - on 30 january, the informal european council was held in brussels, attended by the heads of state and government of the european union. in addition to approving the international agreement on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union, measures were adopted on economic growth and job creation. the prolongation of the current economic and financial crisis has forced member states to take drastic measures to combat the deficit, with significant reductions in the amounts earmarked for investment, the consequences of which are reflected in the increase in unemployment rates, especially among young people, and the lack of economic growth. in europe, the number of unemployed young adults under 25 is already over 5.5 million (22 per cent of the total unemployed). i therefore welcome the increase in the rate of participation in european programmes and the set of measures to promote youth employment and support smes. i voted in favour of the proposal under consideration because it was a very important and crucial summit for the future of the eu, which was based on a consensus approach to the policy guidelines for growth and jobs. the basis for the solution of the crisis is thus laid.
in writing. - it is significant that the majority of parliament is concerned not with the content of the tax pact and the perpetuation of the aggression against the workers and peoples and the national sovereignty it represents, but only with the method and, in particular, with its participation in the process. the necessary cosmetic changes have been made, which guarantee the european parliament its usual role as a decorative element in the whole process, and they are ready to accept the unacceptable. for those who have doubts about the role of the political groups which have signed this resolution - the right wing, the liberal, the green and the social democrats - here is another real example of the almost perfect (because contradictory) alignment on the eu's course remaining unchanged. not all the staging, manipulation or propaganda manoeuvres erase its role in a process which, if not stopped, can only lead the peoples and the eu itself to the abyss. we are, however, facing the future with unshakable confidence in the struggle and its growing momentum in many eu countries, certain that sooner or later this policy and this direction will be defeated.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution. although it criticises the agreement on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union, in particular for the absence of measures to promote sustainable growth and employment, the truth is that it eventually accepts it. the resolution also calls for the creation of project bonds and a financial transaction tax as measures to achieve budgetary stability. it's a fair concern. but what is striking about the document is its agreement to an agreement which legitimizes the introduction of deficit and debt limits into national constitutional orders, making keynesian policies and the very idea of socialism illegal. the confusion which this international agreement introduces into the legal order of the union is, in this light, a minor problem compared with the authoritarian philosophy which marks the treaty of 25.
in writing. the council should make an effort to find a solution to the eu's sovereign debt crisis, preferably with the support of all. in the specific case of this council, the united kingdom does not support one of the main points, which is regrettable. i think it is important that parliament should be present at future meetings through its president.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the new treaty, the so-called budgetary pact, because i agree with it in general. i have three objections, however, although they are pointed. firstly, i think it is an exaggeration to say that virtually all the measures in the treaty could be achieved within the framework of the existing eu treaties and that this new treaty is therefore unnecessary. in fact, its most important points, namely the obligation for member states to include binding rules on budgetary balance in their internal rules, could not be the subject of union legislation. secondly, i agree that the treaty does not solve the present budgetary and economic crisis in the union. but that is not their aim either, but to prevent future crises. the present budgetary crisis cannot be overcome without assurances to creditors that such crises will not be repeated in the future. thirdly, while i fully agree that a genuine budgetary union is much more than budgetary discipline, including also the issuing of joint loans to both national budgets and the union budget, i think that the requirement of tax harmonization cannot be omitted. the very idea of the internal market is incompatible with tax competition and tax dumping.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which contains the european parliament's conclusions on the european council of 30 january 2012. i would stress from these conclusions the recognition by the european parliament that fiscal stability is an important component in resolving the current crisis but that economic recovery requires measures to strengthen solidarity and to promote sustainable growth and employment. the european council has already recognised this, but it is not too much to insist on the need for concrete and far-reaching measures in this area.
in writing. the new treaty on stability, coordination and governance in economic and monetary union, which was agreed at the european council on 30 january, is far from the ideal solution, as it represents a strengthening of the intergovernmental dimension to the detriment of the community method. in any event, it must be acknowledged that the final text represents progress, and it was possible to introduce some amendments proposed by the european parliament in order to deepen the community framework of this treaty: firstly, the commitment to incorporate the content of the treaty into the eu legal framework, but also the recognition of the right of the contracting parties whose currency is not the euro to participate in the summits on the euro which are concerned with the competitiveness and the overall architecture of the euro area. despite these advances, it should be stressed that the resolution of the current crisis does not depend solely on fiscal stability and that progress is now needed with measures to strengthen solidarity between member states and to promote growth and employment.
in writing. - in the debate in the european parliament, the president of the european commission said that the signing of the budgetary pact by the 25 member states was extremely positive and that this agreement would help to clarify the role of the institutions and strengthen the community method. the new treaty on stability, coordination and governance of the european union should ensure greater stability by strengthening budgetary discipline and introducing automatic sanctions for non-compliant countries. the so-called golden rule, which aims to limit the structural deficit to 0.5% and to have a public debt below 60% of gross domestic product (gdp), is also enshrined in the constitution or similar legislation. i am supporting this resolution because i fully agree that the european institutions and their member states should take concrete measures to stimulate economic growth, finance smes, create jobs and make the single market work more effectively. as the resolution states, i am in favour of the creation of stability bonds and the adoption of the financial transaction tax, better known as the tobin tax.
in writing. - after some momentary indignation at the way the european parliament was ignored in the decision on the fiscal pact taken through the intergovernmental agreement led by the french-german directorate, the majority of the political groups in the ep - right, liberal, green and social democrats - have without any problem adopted this resolution supporting the council's decisions. in other words, they have approved the path which institutionalizes and perpetuates the guidelines of the so-called austerity policies, which are nothing more than a way of promoting capital accumulation and of voting the people and the workers to unemployment, exploitation and poverty. we have no doubt that this path is not in the interests of the workers and the people and have therefore voted unequivocally against this resolution.
in writing. - i approve the sanctions which the council has decided to increase the restrictive measures already in place against iran, given that this country has shown a great inability to cooperate with the international nuclear watchdogs. i also think that all diplomatic efforts within the reach of the european external action service should be maintained, which should take a broader approach to iran, not just talking about the nuclear issue.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to express my great satisfaction that the effort of understanding between the various parliamentary groups in this house has resulted in the adoption of a single motion for a resolution. in these matters, this position dignifies the institution and makes our position stronger and therefore potentially more effective. and on the matter of fact, i would just like to quote the first recital in the resolution: whereas iran, by ratifying the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons, has undertaken to renounce the acquisition of nuclear weapons and is legally obliged to declare all its nuclear activities, including nuclear material, and to submit them to the iaea guarantees. the european union's tougher position is, as stated in this paragraph, welcome and i hope that the international community, in particular russia and china, will act in accordance with the values to which they swore allegiance when they joined the un, not only on this issue but also on other equally terrible issues, and i am referring specifically to the syrian issue.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on iran and its nuclear programme because i support the decision to adopt sanctions against iran, but i believe that the eu must continue to work through diplomatic channels to get the iranian government to accept and respect the un resolutions.
in writing. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's nuclear programme is not disrupted by nuclear weapons. the political situation in the middle east, particularly in the persian gulf, remains very complicated and has serious consequences for the world economy because of the oil industry. in fact, iran's arrogance towards western countries, particularly the us, is fuelling the emergence of a new armed conflict. iran, proud of a glorious past rooted in the history of ancient persia, is playing the role of a great power, refusing to sit at the negotiating table with the international community and refusing access to independent inspectors who can assess the progress of its nuclear programme. however, even after several condemnations in international organisations such as the un security council, to which it belongs, or sanctions imposed by the eu and the us, it continues to fail to respect the most basic human rights. i voted in favour of this resolution, as well as other proposals already approved by this parliament, because the iranian nuclear programme represents a threat to that region and to the planet.
in writing. - the european union's decision to impose further unilateral sanctions against iran only confirms its submission to the us militarist agenda in the region and, likewise, the convergence of geostrategic interests in the region of the two imperialist blocs. it is recalled that these sanctions arise as a result of the movement of large military assets into the persian gulf and the strait of hormuz. this is a decision which is dangerously contributing to an escalation of the conflict and which, as is clear, has nothing to do with the search for peaceful solutions and diplomatic negotiations. a decision which poses serious threats to the sovereignty of iran and the right of the iranian people to live in peace and which could also have extremely negative economic consequences for several countries. on the other hand, these unilateral sanctions are deeply hypocritical, imposed by nuclear powers such as the united states, france or britain. the european union has also maintained close economic and military cooperation with israel, one of the countries with nuclear arsenals, which acts completely outside the most elementary principles of international law.
in writing. − the proliferation risks related to iran's nuclear programme remain a source of deep concern to the eu and we have to express serious concern at the statement in the iaea report that reliable information indicates that iran has developed activities related to the manufacture of a nuclear explosive device. it is imperative that iran immediately put a stop to the development of enrichment technology, going far beyond the needs of ensuring the safe supply of fuel for civilian purposes and ignoring international concerns regarding clandestine military intentions. otherwise, a phased embargo on iranian crude oil exports to the eu will have to be exercised and already concluded contracts can still be executed until 1 july 2012. the council should take the necessary measures to offset the consequences of the embargo for the different eu member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution on iran and its nuclear programme, which calls on the iranian leadership to fulfil its obligations under the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and urges the iranian parliament and government to ratify and implement the additional protocol and to fully implement the provisions of the general agreement on safeguards.
in writing. - the iranian nuclear programme has been one of the most pressing issues in international relations for some years now. having committed itself as a party to the nuclear non-proliferation treaty not to acquire (or develop) such weapons, iran is at this time, and in the light of the data that has been disclosed, in breach of its obligations under that treaty. given the risks associated with such armaments, and especially the geopolitical balance in the region, it is justified for the community institutions to adopt compulsory measures which will help to bring about a rapid change of political orientation on the part of the iranian authorities. for these reasons i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the deterioration of eu-iran relations has been having undeniable repercussions since 2005. the lack of cooperation of the iranian authorities with the relevant authorities, in particular the iaea, during the implementation of the iranian nuclear programme has created obstacles to the development of constructive relations between iran and the international community. these disagreements, and the suspicion that the nuclear program was not peaceful but military, led to the adoption of unsc resolutions in 2006, 2007, 2008 and 2010. the recent phased sanctions imposed by the eu on iran come in the wake of the last iaea rapporteur in november 2011 accusing iran of developing nuclear technology for military purposes. i fully support the imposition of new sanctions on the oil and related products embargo, but to phase out the sanction itself shows a lack of clarity and political will, as the full measure will only come into force in july after reassessment in may. the threats from iran, in particular the closure of the strait of hormuz, are clear signs that it is urgent to return to diplomatic negotiations, since the stability of the region is essential for the maintenance of world peace.
in writing. the recent decision by the european union to impose further unilateral sanctions on iran only confirms the imperialist nature of the union and its complete submission to the militaristic agenda of the us in the region, which has already deployed massive military assets to the persian gulf and the strait of hormuz. it is a decision which dangerously contributes to the escalation of the conflict and which, as is clear, has nothing to do with the search for peaceful solutions and diplomatic negotiations. in the present context, a possible military conflict would not only mean an attack on the sovereignty and the right of the iranian people to live in peace, but would also have extremely negative economic consequences for several countries. it is also important to remember that these unilateral sanctions are imposed hypocritically by nuclear powers such as the usa, france or britain and that the european union has maintained close economic and military cooperation with israel, one of the countries which acts completely outside the most elementary principles of international law. the resolution in question unequivocally supports sanctions on oil exports, which will obviously hit the iranian economy and thus the entire iranian people. we will not condone this attack on the iranian people.
in writing. − i support this report because the eu must harness the potential of sport for social inclusion, combating racism, intolerance and violence and, as such, encourage all its citizens to participate in healthy activities. thus, sport should be maintained as a compulsory discipline in school curricula and access to decent sports facilities should be allowed. on the other hand, in line with the concerns raised by the s&d group, i also believe that access to sport for people with disabilities should be strengthened and the protection of minors in competitive sport increased.
in writing. - article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union gives the eu a new competence in the field of sport. sport contributes to the achievement of the strategic objectives of the european union by highlighting fundamental educational and cultural values. it is also a vector of integration, as it affects all citizens, regardless of their gender, ethnic origin, religion, age, nationality, social status and sexual orientation. sport is an important phenomenon and a social good. for many it is indeed one of the most important forms of recreation, promoting the active participation of european citizens in society and helping to develop a sense of social inclusion, in addition to the undeniable health benefits. the report also highlights the urgent need for a more active eu approach in, inter alia, the fight against doping, violence and intolerance, and in regulating a large and fast-growing sector of the economy which directly or indirectly employs 15 million people. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures it contains contribute to the development of sport and to the achievement of the objective of giving it a european dimension.
in writing. the lisbon treaty gives the european union new powers in the field of sport. this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of, represents the european parliament's reaction to the commission's communication on sport of 8 january 2011 and highlights the urgent need for a more active approach by the eu in the fight against doping, violence and intolerance and in the regulation of a large and fast-growing economic sector which directly and indirectly employs some 15 million people. i would also like to stress that, like my political group (epp), i believe that sport is part of human and social development, and i therefore believe that the european union will have to create a specific programme on sport in the future in order to achieve a genuine european dimension in sport.
in writing. - it is important that sport be recognised for its important social, cultural and lifestyle aspects, but also for its very important economic dimension as a creator of jobs, innovation and growth.
in writing. - this report on the european dimension of sport, by santiago fisas ayxela, comes at a time when the world of sport is mourning the tragedy that occurred in cairo, egypt, at the end of a football match, in which clashes left more than 70 people dead and about 1,000 injured. first of all, i want to extend my condolences to the families of the victims and my solidarity with all those who are victims of violence in sport. the advantages of sporting activity are unquestionable, both for those who play it and for society in general. the benefits are undeniable in terms of education, health (the practitioner benefits in terms of quality of life and the state saves on medical costs), social (thousands of volunteers help organise sports activities) and economic (it is an activity that represents 3.65% of european gdp and employs 15 million people). i therefore welcome the measures proposed, including the increase of sport in school curricula, the creation of the european year of sport, the new erasmus for all programme, and all forms of combating doping and violence, such as the hooligan database.
in writing. - the report undeniably contains some good proposals. most of them are, however, vaguely stated, going little beyond the plane of good intentions. the role of sport in society is valued, in terms of integration, among other correct principles. it is proposed that the multiannual financial framework should include a specific and ambitious budget for sport policy, that sport should be integrated into the curricula of all types of schools and that gender issues should be duly taken into account. however, it is proposed that mass sport (a term used to distinguish it from professional sport) be supported by money from lotteries; proposes the existence of a database of supporters at european level; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the drafting of the new rules. approaches that we don't follow and distance ourselves from.
in writing. − sport promotes socialization and recreation and is one of the most important health factors in modern society. in recent decades, the practice of grassroots sports has been replaced by the mere attendance of professional sports events. a european approach is needed to promote grassroots sport, to regulate professional sport and to ban violence and doping in sport. this report goes in that direction, and i have therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - sport is an important phenomenon and a social good. for many, it is indeed one of the most important forms of recreation, both when participating and when watching sporting events. sport, at its best, brings people together, regardless of their background, background, religious beliefs or economic status. sport promotes the active participation of european citizens in society and helps to develop a sense of social inclusion. article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) confers a new competence on the eu in the field of sport, calls on the eu to contribute to the promotion of sporting issues and states that eu action should aim at developing the european dimension of sport. the commission's communication is the first policy document in the field of sport since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which gives the eu a mandate to support, coordinate and complement the sport policy measures adopted by the member states. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - this report arises in the context of the new competences of the european union in the field of sport, article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the treaty gives the eu a mandate to support, coordinate and complement the sport policy measures adopted by the member states. the commission's communication is the first policy document in the field of sport following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. before these powers were conferred, the european parliament had already promoted several documents in the form of a resolution on the subject, which the rapporteur uses to present parliament's proposals. i voted in favour of agreeing to the measures laid down for a large and fast-growing sector with a major impact on national economies and which directly or indirectly employs 15 million people.
in writing. − as well as being an important social phenomenon and good, sport is an integration vector that promotes the active participation of european citizens in society and helps to develop a sense of social inclusion, and represents a large and fast-growing sector of the economy that contributes significantly to growth and employment. in this context, it is crucial that the eu and its member states adopt policies and measures to support and promote sport that address the main challenges in this field, such as the fight against doping, violence and intolerance, the free movement of citizens and the nationality of sportsmen and the transfer of players (the legality of the acts and the transparency of the financing flows involved, the european social dialogue in the sector, as well as the integrity of competitions). i have voted in favour of this report because i see these concerns reflected in it.
in writing. - article 165 of the treaty gives the eu a new competence in the field of sport, and the eu should contribute to the promotion of sport issues and develop the european dimension of sport. in its first communication in this field, the commission proposes concrete actions with regard to the social role, the economic dimension and the organisation of sport. the european parliament supports the development of the european dimension in sport, stressing issues such as the resolution of major problems, the need for proper management, the importance of sport for tourism, the fairness of sporting competitions, the budget, traditional games and sports, opportunities and employment, training and mobility, cooperation with third countries and international organisations and the european identity of sport itself.
in writing. − free and universal access to quality sport is essential for the social and personal development of individuals and a right that must be guaranteed by each member state through public funding to sports organisations, schools and the grassroots associative movement. this last aspect is of particular importance in reports seeking to promote the european dimension of sport, as it cannot replace the cultural and sporting specificity of each country. this report contains positive measures (although mainly on the level of intentions) to promote mass sport and sporting activity (not forgetting gender issues), in particular by proposing a specific and ambitious budget for sport policy in the multiannual financial framework. however, we cannot but express our concern and disagreement with the proposal that amateur sport be financed mainly by money from gambling, the creation of a european fan database or the prohibition of any kind of political demonstration by athletes during the games.
in writing. - i regret that more ideas on environmental monitoring have not been adopted. the minimum reporting requirement therefore requires the commission to monitor more closely the transposition of the environmental protection directive by member states through criminal law in order to ensure that it is carried out promptly and effectively. it is important that comprehensive waste management plans are implemented within the framework of european legislation. in turn, public authorities are expected to be effective and rigorous, particularly when dealing with matters in the field of education and health such as this, not least because this is a subject that has been attracting an increasing number of petitions from european citizens.
in writing. − most european citizens expect public authorities to provide efficient and effective public services in the areas of health, education, transport and safety. however, one issue that is giving rise to an increasing number of petitions is the apparent inability of public authorities in many countries to deal satisfactorily with the problem of waste management. judging from the petitions received, this concern is growing in many local communities, indicating that waste management is becoming a serious political and social problem. the resolution calls on the member states to speed up the transposition of the waste framework directive into national law and urges the national authorities to implement the measures essential to combating illegal waste disposal. the commission is also called upon to monitor carefully the transposition of the environmental protection directive by the member states in order to ensure that it is carried out promptly and effectively. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the measures it contains will help to improve the implementation of waste management policy in the future.
in writing. − one of the issues that has been generating an increasing number of petitions is environmental issues, which is the main group of petitions received, with waste related petitions representing an important subgroup within these. this seems obvious to me, as the waste problem affects citizens across the eu very directly, particularly in the authorisation procedure for new waste management facilities or the operation of existing ones, followed by concern about waste management in general - the not in my backyard (nimby) syndrome! it also appears that the failure of public authorities in many member states to address the problem of waste management satisfactorily may be a factor in the increase. i voted in favour of this report which, on the basis of 114 petitions which fundamentally point to the existence of deficiencies in waste management and the frequent failure of member states to comply with their legal obligations, recommends that member states should in future improve the implementation of waste management policy and speed up the transposition of the waste framework directive into their national law, and that the national authorities should implement the necessary and appropriate measures to combat illegal waste disposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the application of the waste directive, because the member states must make every effort to transpose this directive as quickly as possible and to ensure full compliance with all its requirements and all the objectives set out in the framework of european legislation with a view to protecting the environment and public health.
in writing. - one of the great problems of our time is how to manage the waste generated by industries, hospitals, our homes and the whole dynamic of modern life. this waste, created every day, must be properly treated to allow for efficient and sustainable management that preserves the environment. although the responsibility for waste management lies with the states, there are wide discrepancies in the way it is handled in the eu, and the report recommends, and i think it is right, that european guidelines be adopted in this area, which will allow for greater harmonisation of waste management policies.
in writing. − in a modern society where the 'use and throw away' principle has gained ground, sustainable waste management is making progress, as was clear from the discussion and vote on the report on waste from electrical and electronic equipment in the previous plenary session. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of waste water and the use of water-based products. the citizens have a right to know how their waste is treated. human health and the environment are at stake. despite the strictness of european legislation, there are member states with problems, some of which have been the subject of infringement proceedings. in the context of economic crisis, we cannot waste resources. it is therefore imperative to reuse, recover and recycle waste. i voted in favour of this report because it has significant advantages both for environmental protection and for human health. it is not enough to have the best legislation in the world, it must be respected. we must look at recycling as an opportunity for job creation and economic value.
in writing. − the report addresses the problem of the application of the waste directive and related directives in the eu member states, starting from complaints and petitions submitted to the european parliament by groups of citizens, in particular from greece. the rapporteur makes a number of points which we consider to be positive, relating, in general, to waste management, environmental protection and public awareness. however, there are less positive aspects of the report which must be noted. the report makes it clear that waste control is a public responsibility, but is often undertaken by private parties. it is not a secret that there are two large companies that control this business in two thirds of the member states, making a lot of money. unfortunately, this model is not, as was claimed, clearly rejected by the report. the report also refers to the 2007 directive. however, this directive has a problem in not distinguishing between toxic waste and ordinary waste, which has led in some cases to situations where large companies produce toxic waste in ways that are not compatible with the overriding interests of public health and environmental protection.
in writing. − most european citizens expect public authorities to provide efficient and effective public services in the areas of health, education, transport and safety. however, one issue that is giving rise to an increasing number of petitions is the apparent inability of public authorities in many countries to deal satisfactorily with the problem of waste management. the european union has adopted a wide range of legislative measures, applicable in all member states, to ensure that the legal framework is in place to deal with the inevitable consequence of our modern lifestyle, in terms of all the things we throw away in our homes, our workplaces, our hospitals, our industries, etc. it is clear to everyone that not addressing these issues and not prioritising efforts in this direction has negative effects, not only on the health and well-being of people, but also on the viability of the planet and its environment in the broad sense. however, lessons must be drawn from these examples and the recommendations contained in this report should therefore contribute to improving the implementation of waste management policy in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which calls on member states to speed up the transposition of the waste framework directive into national law and urges national authorities to implement essential measures to combat illegal waste dumping. in this european parliament resolution, on the issues raised by the petitioners relating to the implementation of the waste directive and related directives in the member states of the european union, the commission is also asked to monitor carefully the transposition of the environmental protection directive by the member states in order to ensure that it is carried out promptly and effectively.
in writing. - the european parliament has received several petitions, initiated by groups of community citizens, highlighting local problems in waste management. given that this area has already been regulated at community level, the effectiveness of union law in responding to the needs of the people on the ground must be questioned. it is therefore necessary to identify, following the field trips of some meps, the points where the waste directive can be improved and those where it has not been properly applied. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european parliament has been receiving a number of petitions, with environmental issues being the ones that arouse the greatest interest from citizens, in particular those directly related to waste management. following several visits to ireland, france, italy and spain, it was considered necessary to take a position on the matter in question. i agree with this report, as i believe that member states should implement an advanced waste management strategy and ensure greater compliance with existing legislation. i also believe that european governments should involve citizens living near waste management infrastructure, strengthen cooperation with local and regional authorities and establish strong links with european agencies with strong knowledge of waste management, such as the european commission's directorate-general for the environment, the european environment agency or the european network for the implementation and enforcement of environmental legislation.
in writing. - this report sets out some positive lines, notably by denouncing abusive situations, and at the same time presents proposals for reducing and implementing the so-called waste hierarchy. we stress, however, the wrong perspective of almost exclusive individual responsibility for the environmental situation we are living in (a panacea which does not solve, in itself, a problem which is systemic), arguing that waste management is a public responsibility for private profits (it is not unusual that it praises two multinationals responsible for this management in 2/3 of the member states, without relating the extraordinary profits they make and the increase in complaints throughout europe). the distinction between toxic and ordinary waste is still missing, which allows large companies to pollute without restrictions, based on studies that consider the average waste produced per individual, putting households and companies in the same case. waste management is fundamental to the protection of the environment and human health. but we must not forget that the serious environmental problems do not stem from isolated acts, but are rather the result of the capitalist system which, in its quest for maximum profit, looks no further than the means to achieve it.
in writing. - i approve the report. the daphne programme has been successful in all its editions and as such it makes sense to continue to support it, especially because this programme has supported small projects on subjects that deserve special attention from society and the ngos that apply them on the ground, such as raising awareness of the situation of victims of violence or the commercial exploitation of children. i think there will also be the possibility of including support for projects on gender equality, as my group has advocated.
in writing. - that since its inception in 1997, the daphne programme, promoted by the eu and carried out by several ngos in the member states, has proved to be an important policy instrument in combating violence against women, children and adolescents, who are, along with the union's older citizens, the most vulnerable groups in the population. while considered a success, the report proposes some adjustments to the daphne programme until 2013, following the mid-term evaluation report, with which i agree: increased participation in the programme by the newest eu members and other member states with a small number of approved projects; increased publicity for approved projects to promote benchmarking; and a better fit of programmes to eu priority objectives through the funding of a smaller number of larger projects. i would like to end by congratulating my party colleague, regina bastos, for her work on such an important matter, which requires the european institutions to be increasingly involved in combating and eradicating this incomprehensible and shocking form of violence against the most vulnerable groups of our population.
in writing. the daphne programme is the european programme to combat violence against women and children. this type of violence encompasses a range of serious violations of fundamental rights, such as sexual abuse, physical assault and domestic violence, psychological violence, harassment or coercion, trafficking in women and exploitation of prostitution, among many other forms of aggression, which must be strongly condemned by states. i condemn all violence, but especially that which is directed against those who are most vulnerable - physically, socially, economically or emotionally - such as children and, often, women. states should therefore seek to eliminate all forms of violence against women and children, including trafficking for sexual exploitation, violations of their sexual self-determination and offences against their physical integrity. finally, i should like to clarify that the designation of sexual and reproductive rights, according to the internationally accepted definition, includes abortion, which is why i voted against this reference in recital k.
in writing. - this own-initiative report, by mrs regina bastos, looks at the daphne programme, more specifically at the progress made and the prospects for the future. it is the only european programme aimed at protecting women and children. cases of violence against women are well known and have high costs. in europe alone, domestic violence costs more than eur 16 billion annually. with new information technologies, we are seeing a new kind of violence, online, particularly through social media. it is urgent to take measures to prevent discrimination against women. i welcome the adoption of measures to safeguard the objectives of this programme and the maintenance of the previous level of funding. i also hope that there will be a fair distribution of projects among all the member states. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her work, which i consider excellent, and i support the proposal to maintain the daphne programme for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. - this report recognises, and rightly so, the importance that the daphne programme has had in combating violence against children, young people and women. the report also calls for the inclusion of the objective of ending violence against women in the future rights and citizenship programme, as there is a proposal for actions funded under this programme to be integrated into the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, and for the latter to be integrated with the objective of ending violence against women, continuing with the same level of funding as the daphne programme has had so far. we cannot but point out the risk that under the new conditions now proposed this objective will be diluted and eventually lost amidst so many others. we therefore believe that specific funding should be allocated to the daphne programme and that this funding should be higher than in the last programmes, in view of the existing needs. given the importance of women's organisations, trade union organisations and various other ngos in defending and promoting women's rights and combating violence against women, it would be important for the report to set out clear measures to enable these organisations to access the programme's funds.
in writing. - given that violence against women continues to persist and take on new forms, and that in an economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing today, it is women who continue to suffer most as a result of inequality, there is no doubt that there is a need to finance programmes that can combat all forms of gender-based violence or contribute to reducing inequalities between women and men.
in writing. − this programme, set up in 1997, has established itself as the only european programme to combat violence against women, children and adolescents. in 2000, the daphne initiative was transformed into a multiannual programme for the period 2000-03, with a funding of eur 20 million, and has attracted great interest both in the european union and in various international bodies fighting the commercial sexual exploitation of children. the daphne ii and daphne iii programmes were launched in 2004 and 2007 respectively, with an average annual budget of eur 10 million for daphne ii and eur 16.7 million for daphne iii. the general objective of the daphne iii programme is to contribute to the protection of children, adolescents and women against all forms of violence and to achieve a high level of protection of health, well-being and social cohesion by promoting the deepening of community policies, in particular in the fields of public health, human rights and gender equality, and by encouraging action to protect children's rights and to combat trafficking in human beings and sexual exploitation. with such initiatives, the eu is at the forefront of the fight against violence against women, children and adolescents.
in writing. - the daphne programme, set up in 1997, has established itself as the only european programme to combat violence against women, children and adolescents. the daphne iii programme (2007-2013) was part of the general programme fundamental rights and justice and had the general objective of contributing to the protection of children, adolescents and women against all forms of violence and to achieving a high level of protection of health, well-being and social cohesion by promoting the deepening of community policies. the rapporteur, whom i congratulate on her work, concluded that the balance sheet was very positive, with some necessary adjustments, and considered that better dissemination of the results of the projects was desirable, and proposed measures for more effective management. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the daphne programme was set up in 1997 to promote cooperation between various ngos to combat violence against women, children and young people. this project is based on a balance and cooperation between public authorities and private organisations, the former playing a coordinating role, the latter acting as agents on the ground. the development of this programme must therefore take account of these two dimensions. on the one hand, it must be ensured that all member states promote or contribute to the programme; on the other hand, the results of these ngos' projects on issues such as female genital mutilation, bullying, risks to children in surfing the internet - which can be translated into a privileged portrait of the communities on which policy decisions are being applied - should be exploited. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the daphne programme is the only european programme to combat violence against women, children and adolescents. the daphne initiatives have been taken one after the other, with a balance sheet which can now be considered positive. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - the report in question rightly recognises the importance that the daphne programme has had in combating violence against children, young people and women. the report also calls for the inclusion of the gender dimension in the future rights and citizenship programme, as there is a proposal to integrate this programme into the 2013-2020 multiannual financial framework, and for the latter to integrate the objective of ending violence against women, continuing with the same level of funding as the daphne programme has achieved so far. we believe, however, that in order to ensure that this objective is not diluted and lost amongst so many others, not only specific funding for the daphne programme but also increased funding in relation to the last programmes should be allocated. given the importance of small women's organisations, trade unions and ngos in defending and promoting women's rights and combating violence against women, we think that the report should set out clear measures to enable these organisations to access the programme's funds.
in writing. - i approve the report because it brings to the fore, and in a very pertinent way, a very sensitive subject which deserves debate: the situation of women and also of children in armed conflicts. it is of course important to involve more women in conflict prevention, mediation and resolution, but also in the leadership of military and peacekeeping operations. perhaps this will help to reduce the vulnerabilities that are targeted in many war scenarios, as there are still many women who are victims of violence and sexual exploitation.
in writing. - the situation of women in areas of armed conflict, especially on the african continent, is intolerable. sexual violence against women continues to be used as a weapon of war. these crimes have disastrous physical and psychological consequences for the victims who are often rejected by their communities. this report strongly condemns these crimes and stresses the need for the national authorities to put an end to the impunity of the perpetrators and to strengthen their justice systems to prosecute these acts. it also stressed the need to promote education for women's empowerment and awareness-raising campaigns for respect for the dignity of women. it also stressed the importance of increasing the number of women in peace negotiation processes, as well as in military and peacekeeping operations, especially in leadership positions. the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. for the reasons i have given, i have supported this report.
in writing. - the brutality of the most vulnerable is, unfortunately, one of the most striking features of armed conflict. despite all the international conventions on this subject, wars, by revealing the worst in human beings, demonstrate that the law is not enough to curb the destructive impulse and that, however much men may try to set limits to it, the hatred of the other present in such situations eventually overcomes reason and piety. the situation of women is particularly difficult in cases of armed conflict. psychological or physical violence (often of a sexual nature) and the multiple vexations to which they are subjected are used as weapons to demoralize the opponent and to destroy the social fabric from which he comes. this type of violence leaves deep and lasting marks and, by its very intimate nature, instills in the communities that suffer it an inevitable desire for revenge that is very difficult to quell. the european union must continue to be vigilant about this phenomenon, vigorously combat the disgusting and deplorable situations facing defenceless women and seek ways of helping them and raising awareness in society of the need to change attitudes in this regard.
in writing. - the reports we receive of human rights violations in the context of war are constant and almost always take on machiavellian contours according to the available information (conflict in the congo: 16 violations a day!). women and children, because of their fragility, are among the main victims. girls and women are often repeatedly raped in the face of their family's impotence. this, in addition to the physical and psychological consequences for the victims, brings enormous trauma to the husbands and children. it is therefore of the utmost urgency to adopt a code of conduct to be applied in the theatre of war and in refugee camps. moreover, it is essential that the perpetrators of such war crimes be arrested and brought to justice, so that they do not go unpunished. i support this report by norica nicolai, which calls for the protection of women from all forms of violence and for their greater participation in military negotiation processes - where they are less than 10% - as their presence is essential in dialogue with other women in conflict. the eu cannot miss this opportunity to put this issue on the foreign policy agenda.
in writing. - the subject of this report is important and relevant. the report should be appreciated as it draws attention to the specific issues of women in war situations, such as increased vulnerability in conflict situations, sexual violence and rape, among other aspects. some recommendations are made to address and avoid these dangers and to properly consider gender specificities in military conflicts. the report as a whole, however, is imbued with an unmistakably militaristic vision, which is well expressed in the call for better conditions for women in nato military and civilian missions. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council and parliament, and the council will be consulted on the matter. the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a strong commitment to peace and the peaceful settlement of conflicts, an area in which women can indeed make an invaluable contribution.
in writing. - in the context of armed conflict, there are numerous crimes against women which go unpunished. it is therefore important, on the one hand, to strengthen the prevention of this type of crime and to ensure that there is no impunity. inequality between men and women must also be tackled in these scenarios, in particular by giving women a more active role, for example in peace negotiation missions and in the processes of political and democratic reconstruction in post-conflict countries.
in writing. − in my view, more women need to be involved in conflict prevention, mediation and resolution. in this regard, the eu and the member states should include more women in the armed forces, in leadership positions and in field operations. from the gender equality point of view, it is essential that there are more women officers in high-ranking positions, but it is also very important that women are present in civilian operations, as they have an easier time establishing better relationships with local women. in the peacebuilding phase, the participation of women is key, as as the pillars of communities, women are much more aware of social and practical needs than men, as it is women who spend more time in local communities, so they have a better knowledge of the practical needs to be included in peacebuilding projects, namely market infrastructures, health centres, accessible school systems, etc. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which emphasises the importance of including more women in conflict prevention, mediation and resolution, and also highlights the presence of women in civilian operations, as they establish better relations with local women.
in writing. − raising people's awareness of gender equality was one of the great achievements of the 20th century. genuine gender equality, however, requires the re-design of institutional structures in various entities, and it is crucial from the gender equality perspective to promote the inclusion of more women in conflict prevention, mediation and resolution and to ensure their presence in civilian operations. it should be noted that the eu already has a set of policies on women, peace and security, as well as gender working groups and focal points on women and security. it lacks, however, a central unit to coordinate all these disparate actions and in this context it is necessary to move towards the creation of the post of eu special representative for women, peace and security. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that women are included in the armed forces, in leadership positions and in field operations. from the gender equality point of view, it is essential that there are more women officers in high-ranking positions, but it is also very important that women are present in civilian operations, as they establish better relations with local women. the need to integrate eu indicators into national plans is also highlighted in order to ensure a uniform set of gender and safety standards across the eu. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the positive aspects of this report lie in its call for attention to the vulnerability of women in particular in the context of war and armed conflict. women are often the first victims of war, being the targets of sexual violence, rape, among other assaults. we think it is important to draw up recommendations to prevent and prevent such aggressions, and to do so we must tackle this serious problem specifically, as the report argues. however, we cannot agree with the following formulations in the resolution which apologise for and give a positive connotation to militarism and militarisation: it urges the eu and the member states to actively promote the increase in the number of women involved in military operations (...). we are against imperialism, militarism and war and we stand for a world of progress, peace and cooperation among peoples. in this respect we differ from the tone of this report.
in writing. - i support this report because it seeks to reinforce the eu's political will to achieve universal access to energy by 2030. to this end, there must also be a financial commitment to help achieve this. the european union has been very active in development aid and i think it should continue to do so, with particular attention to energy, especially since the un has already stressed the importance of this area in the fight against inequalities in the world.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on eu development cooperation to achieve the goal of universal access to energy by 2030 because it contains proposals to improve the mainstreaming of the united nations target of universal access to modern and sustainable energy services by 2030 in the european union's development and cooperation policies.
in writing. - widespread access to energy sources is not yet a reality worldwide. in many areas, people face serious difficulties in accessing and having access to energy in sufficient quantity and quality to ensure a comfortable life in which energy is no longer a major concern for households. the european union, the world's largest donor, must be aware of this inequality and contribute to helping to reduce it. to this end, it should seek to help the countries and populations most in need and not only provide access to energy but, where possible, enhance the possibilities for self-management and self-generation by aid recipients. without more and better access to energy, poverty in many parts of the world will be hard to eradicate. the european union must therefore be part of this collective effort, which the authorities of the assisted states themselves cannot ignore. they should be required to make good use of the funds received and to make efforts to extend access to energy to their citizens, in particular the most deprived.
in writing. - the western world considers access to energy as a right, like water. however, there are many countries where access to energy remains a mirage, especially in india and on the african continent. it is therefore imperative to adopt investment catalysts to achieve the 2030 objectives of universal access to energy. the report under review, by norbert neuser, focuses on the need for cooperation within the european union to achieve the above objective and could not be more timely, given that we are at the beginning of the year 2012, which has been designated by the un as the year of renewable energy for all. i welcome the measures proposed, in particular the encouragement of private investment and the inclusion of universal access to energy as one of the millennium development goals from 2015. the focus on energy efficiency and green energy production is key. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, and i hope that very soon the eu will finance the projects of private individuals for the installation of equipment for the production of energy from renewable sources.
in writing. - this report addresses the issue of promoting access to energy in developing countries, within the framework of the eu's cooperation policy. the report makes some pertinent remarks on the scale of the problem of energy poverty and the negative implications for the achievement of development objectives. the importance attached to the need to adapt energy supply solutions to the specific conditions of developing countries, by making use of decentralized solutions, renewable energies and the autonomy of these countries, seems equally correct to us. but unfortunately the great contradictions which run through this parliament also emerge quite clearly in the report. in the end, what prevails is a completely subversive view of the role of development cooperation, here transformed into business opportunities for eu countries. the attempt to interfere with the sovereign choices of developing countries by imposing models identical to those of the eu, of deregulation and liberalisation of markets (market-oriented reforms in the energy sector, public-private partnerships, etc.) is notorious, which has led to situations of exclusion from access to energy in europe. while recognizing the urgent need to intensify cooperation with developing countries in this area, we cannot support this report.
in writing. − the report considers that access to modern energy services is a fundamental condition for poverty reduction and sustainable human development and that without access to these services, entire communities are condemned to a life of poverty. it also considered that access to modern energy promotes school attendance and education, both by facilitating communication and by facilitating access to basic needs. modern fuels also improve environmental sustainability. better access to modern fuels reduces the physical burden of transporting wood and frees up precious time, especially for women, by broadening their employment opportunities. as the report addresses these problems, i voted in favour.
in writing. − access to modern energy services is a key condition for poverty reduction and sustainable human development. energy services impact on all aspects of people's lives and livelihoods, and without access to these services, entire communities are condemned to a life of poverty. the importance of access to energy requires greater attention from the international community. the two main mechanisms for eu cooperation on energy access are the european development fund (edf) and the eu energy facility. it should be noted that 90% of edf funds are allocated through the mechanism of national and regional indicative programmes (nip/rip), negotiated with the beneficiary countries and regions. the eu energy facility, established in 2005, is a co-financing instrument open to submission by governmental and non-governmental entities. it is crucial to step up political will and financial commitment if the eu is to play a key role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030.
in writing. − this report deals with the european union's development cooperation to achieve the goal of universal access to energy by 2030. access to modern energy services is a key condition for poverty reduction and sustainable human development. energy services impact on all aspects of people's lives and livelihoods, and without access to these services, entire communities are condemned to a life of poverty. the importance of access to energy requires greater attention from the international community. in this connection, and in view of the measures proposed in this document to pursue the objective of universal access to energy, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in september 2010, the goal of universal access to energy by 2030 was set by the united nations secretary-general ban ki moon. in fact, access to energy is a basic condition for the pursuit of many other millennium development goals. among the various obstacles to access to these services under universal conditions, financing difficulties emerge as the main cause of the supply gap. it is therefore justified that these objectives should be taken into account in the allocation of european funds available for development aid. on the one hand, because this makes it possible to harmonize the objectives of the community institutions with the objectives of the un, and on the other hand, because access to energy can, in so far as it improves the basic conditions of production, have, in general terms, a multiplier effect on the aid granted. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − access to modern energy services is a key condition for poverty reduction and sustainable human development, impacting on all aspects of people's lives and therefore requiring greater attention from the international community. the european union must cooperate and contribute to financing the poorest in access to energy. the energy facility is the eu's largest financing mechanism for energy cooperation. however, when compared to the funding gap in energy access or the funding of the necessary aid, the size of this fund is quite small. thus, if the eu shows and intensifies political will and financial commitment, it can play a key role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030.
in writing. - this report addresses the issue of promoting access to energy in developing countries, within the framework of the eu's cooperation policy. the report makes some pertinent remarks on the scale of the problem of energy poverty and the negative implications for the achievement of development objectives. it is also worth mentioning the importance attached to the need to adapt energy supply solutions to the specific conditions of developing countries, making the most of decentralised solutions, renewable energies and the autonomy of these countries. if these were the objectives of the report, we would agree with it. however, in the main, what ends up prevailing is a completely subverted view of the role of development cooperation, here transformed into business opportunities for eu countries. the attempt to interfere in the sovereign choices of developing countries by imposing models identical to those of the eu, of deregulation and liberalisation of markets, which have led to situations of exclusion in access to energy in several countries and have allowed states to be deprived of this important strategic sector, is notorious.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of an annual report produced by parliament because it is a rigorous document on taxation-related issues, reflects well on how taxation can impede the proper functioning of the internal market and because it is very specific in its suggestions. i therefore stress the importance of combating tax fraud and tax havens by increasing tax transparency; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the future of the eu's tax system.
in writing. − this report is intended to be a tool for cooperation in developing initiatives to improve the single market and create a more competitive europe. it addresses tax problems faced by european citizens and businesses, and whose reform could help improve their daily lives. the report, which i supported, focuses mainly on the following issues: tackling problems of double taxation and difficulties in obtaining tax reductions, benefits and deductions; promoting better access to tax information and removing cross-border tax obstacles for the benefit of eu citizens; analysing areas where further tax coordination will be needed and where the eu can play a role; discussing the problem of removing discriminatory tax provisions in member states that are in conflict with the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the eu treaties; and solutions to prevent tax evasion, fraud and abuse and promote greater tax transparency. the report also stresses the need to assess the fiscal implications of the european semester and calls on the commission to present a report in 2012 on this matter.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by olle schmidt, analyses the annual report on taxation - the first that this parliament has published on this subject - and aims to respond to initiatives aimed at improving the functioning of the single market and making the european union more competitive. tax policy affects all people and has both negative and positive aspects. of course, paying taxes costs everyone, but states need financial resources to pay for public services such as health, education, social security, civil and military security, civil protection, etc. in the current crisis, all measures to boost economic growth must be taken into account. it is therefore essential to support cross-border mobility and to avoid double taxation of companies or citizens of one member state working in another and whose conventions may increase by 50%. differential taxation is an obstacle to mobility and tax harmonisation across the eu is desirable. i voted in favour of this report because it is an important contribution to improving european tax legislation, both by avoiding double taxation and by combating tax evasion and tax avoidance, thus increasing transparency in the whole process.
in writing. - the report even makes positive initial considerations, such as that the function of tax systems is to finance public services (education, health, infrastructure, public transport), reduce social inequalities and ensure a fairer distribution of wealth, or that taxation remains a matter of national sovereignty and the tax structures of the member states should be respected. we also appreciate some of the comments on smes. but the few positive aspects of the report are insufficient to change a very negative overall view, which is even in direct contradiction to the initial considerations. the report therefore advocates the need for harmonisation of fiscal policies in the eu and increased control of budgetary procedures by the commission, defends fiscal federalism and highlights the european semester. in other words, it supports the subversion of the function of the tax system enshrined in some national constitutions, as is the case in portugal, by placing it at the service of the reproduction of inequalities, the accumulation and concentration of capital by the large economic and financial groups and justifying the retreat of the state in a number of areas of economic and social life. despite the contradictions noted, it is pure and simple neoliberalism that prevails. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − the main functions of tax systems are to finance public services such as education, healthcare, infrastructure and public transport, to protect public goods by encouraging, in particular, the production and consumption of environmentally friendly products, to reduce social inequalities and to ensure a more equitable distribution of income and wealth. however, taxation remains a matter of national (and in some cases local) sovereignty and the different structures of member states' tax systems must therefore be respected. changes in the treaties will be necessary to transfer decision-making on tax policies from the national to the eu level. the increased scrutiny of budgetary procedures by the commission should therefore be reflected in greater democratic scrutiny by the european parliament.
in writing. − this report addresses tax problems faced by european citizens and businesses, and whose reform could help improve their daily lives. the main objective is to provide input to the commission's work programme for 2012. among the measures i supported, i would highlight those which were put forward to prevent tax evasion and tax abuse, as well as those aimed at increasing tax transparency.
in writing. - taxation is one of the hottest topics on the political agenda in any state. the adoption of the budget is therefore, from the outset, the key moment in the life of parliaments. this problem must be addressed by the public authorities. i therefore welcome the fact that the european parliament has decided to submit, for the first time, an annual report on taxation, thus contributing to a more balanced design by the commission of community taxation policy: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the circumstances in which greater cooperation between states is warranted, the abolition of discriminatory tax rules and the increase in tax transparency. i believe that this initiative represents an added value in terms of community policy, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the european commission presented in november 2011 a report entitled double taxation in the single market which aims to address the relevant problems of double taxation in the european union. i am aware of the problems involved and i agree with this report, as i believe that new instruments and new solutions are needed to combat double taxation and to achieve more in-depth fiscal coordination within the eu. i believe that the european parliament should suggest that new measures be implemented to prevent fraud and tax havens, and it is essential to eliminate cross-border territorial obstacles and the double taxation discrimination to which some citizens and companies are subject in the european union.
in writing. - i welcome this report which demonstrates that european competition policy has brought benefits to european businesses and citizens. in any case, it is very important that greater price transparency is provided for the benefit of the consumer. i would also stress the need for state aid to be allocated as carefully as possible so as not to distort or make the market less transparent. finally, i believe that, in line with the report, better european coordination is needed to properly assess the atypical liquidity injections carried out by the ecb, since they have not been coordinated in the best possible way with state aid pursuing the same objective.
in writing. − the european union's competition policy has brought many benefits in terms of consumer welfare, and it remains an essential instrument for removing barriers to the free movement of goods, services, people and capital. competition policy remains essential to preserve the single market and protect consumers' interests. the crisis will require a renewed commitment to growth policies and to strengthening the eu's competitiveness at home and globally. this report, which i supported, makes recommendations on competition policy in the following areas: control of state aid; proposal for a permanent system of regulation and the end of temporary measures as soon as the economic situation allows; control of mergers, even in times of crisis, as they can create serious problems in the future; encouragement for the european commission to participate in the international competition network. finally, it called on the european commission to present, at the beginning of each year, the competition work programme, including the binding and non-binding instruments to be adopted during the following year, as well as the public consultations planned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is balanced in the way it deals with state aid to enterprises and in the way it wants to regulate mergers and acquisitions of enterprises in the different sectors of the economy.
in writing. − eu competition policy is not only a fundamental and truly structural policy of the european legal framework, but also the foundation of a successful internal market and a sustainable and competitive economy. that is why i think it is important that the commission informs parliament of its development and implementation, which it has done through the annual reports. while it is true that european competition policy is one of the most successful policies and a model followed by other jurisdictions, the truth is that there remain areas in the european market where it is still essential to ensure more competition and better market functioning. i am thinking, of course, of the case of the markedly oligopolistic markets and also of the now much-talked-about case of the rating agencies. in addition, the energy market and the internet and new technologies deserve particular attention from competition policy. finally, i hope that commissioner almunia will continue the good work he has been doing.
in writing. − this text, by andreas schwab, analyses the annual report on competition policy in the european union (eu) for 2010, on the occasion of the 40th anniversary of the report. since the eu wants to see an effective and efficient single market, competition policy plays a key role in stimulating competition between firms and ensuring price transparency. this is a situation that only benefits consumers. despite the progress made in its operation, there are still many areas to be improved, such as the control of state aid that distorts markets and is only acceptable in an initial situation as a response to the crisis, the fight against monopolies, transparency in the functioning of the banking sector, public procurement, the energy market, air transport, etc. it is also essential to move forward with the revision of the markets in financial instruments (mfi) and market abuse (mam) directives. i welcome the adoption of this report, which has shown that the eu's competition policy must continue and evolve, as it has improved the quality of life of europeans and facilitated the movement of people, goods and services.
in writing. the report stresses the importance of eu competition policy for the preservation of the single market. it advocates market and competition advancement in the service, energy, transport and other sectors. it advocates the need to remove obstacles to the free movement of goods, services, persons and capital. we know what this free movement of capital has brought about. the member states with the weakest economies and their peoples are now feeling the effects of speculation and extortion of resources, of capital flight, brought about by this free movement. we also know the effects of competition in the single market, the destruction of the weakest productive systems, the colonization of national economies by large foreign economic groups, the growing dependence on countries like portugal. the report highlights the temporary state aid regime and calls on the commission to maintain state aid to the banking sector beyond 2011. the commission is also proposing a set of intervention instruments and incentives to resolve the crisis of failing banks. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. a whole neoliberal programme is being set out here. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − the european union has been facing a serious economic, financial and social crisis, and the european institutions have adopted different policies to address the problems. among these measures, i would highlight competition policy as a key instrument for managing the crisis, which aims to create a more dynamic, effective and globally competitive internal market. i am voting in favour of this report because i agree that there should be more transparency in the prices charged by companies, that specific measures should be introduced to deal with the banking crisis, that support for research and innovation should be increased for companies and that mergers should be supervised. i welcome the need, highlighted in the report, to promote competition in all sectors and not just in the services sector, which represents 70% of the european economy.
in writing. − the welfare benefits to consumers of the european union's competition policy are clear. indeed, eu competition policy is an essential instrument for removing barriers to the free movement of goods, services, people and capital and remains essential for preserving the single market and protecting consumers' interests. i voted in favour of this report because i generally agree with the recommendations on competition policy put forward by the rapporteur. i would just like to highlight the measures to control state aid, to control mergers and to encourage the european commission to participate in the international competition network.
in writing. the functioning of the internal market is based on an economic model of free competition. however, to guarantee this, the public authorities must protect certain basic conditions for the proper functioning of the market. the presentation of the annual report on eu competition policy is therefore seen as a prime moment to rethink the solutions and policies adopted, identifying their successes and weaknesses. in this context, there is particular concern about state aid by states to certain economic sectors, which may result in increased power by some market players (such as in the banking sector), the need to avoid the regulator being captured by the regulated, the need for greater price transparency, and, finally, and only as an example, the importance of removing obstacles to competitive markets from the various national legal orders.
in writing. − over the past few years, the european union has been facing a serious economic, financial and social crisis, and the european institutions have adopted different policies to address the problems. among the measures adopted, competition policy is highlighted as a key crisis management instrument aimed at creating a more dynamic, effective and globally competitive internal market. i am voting in favour of this report because i agree that there is greater transparency in the prices charged by companies and more support for companies in the area of research and innovation, and also because i support specific measures to solve the banking crisis and the supervision of business mergers. i welcome the need, stressed in the report, to promote competition in all sectors, not just in the services sector, which accounts for 70% of the european economy.
the commission and governments now promise to reprogram the structural funds to support smes and create jobs. however, it is worth recalling that at the end of last year the commission also decided to suspend the allocation of structural funds to countries which did not meet the deficit or debt targets. it doesn't take a genius to see that you either avenge the promise or you avenge the punishment, but you can't have both at the same time. and that is why, commissioner, i want to ask you a very direct question: the decision to suspend the allocation of structural funds is maintained, has been frozen or has been annulled? in other words, will greece, portugal, ireland, other countries still be able to draw on the funds to which they are entitled if they do not meet the targets that are being set by the commission and by you? answer me, commissioner, please, because in portugal we are very tired of promises, you know?
madam president, commissioner, according to eurostat, the european union currently has some 23 million unemployed, eight more than in 2008, most of them young people who are unable to find a job in the labour market. the youth unemployment rate in the european union stands at 20.4%, while in the united states it is around 17.5% and in japan 9.3%, and new public measures are urgently needed to stimulate economic growth, generate wealth and create jobs. of the €82 billion announced by the european commission, portugal has only about €3 billion of the structural funds to allocate, or about 14% of the total that the country was entitled to receive in the period 2007-2013 and that has not yet been properly allocated. it is essential to target this budget to boost economic activity through effective support for smes, to strengthen research and innovation activities, to stimulate international activity and to encourage entrepreneurship. in the area of the labour market, it is essential to take advantage of this opportunity to encourage companies to hire young people, to strengthen vocational training, to adapt higher education to the real needs of the labour market and to boost the action of public authorities. the question is: what concrete measures does the european commission recommend that member states implement? is this the right solution for some member states, including portugal, to move from the austerity phase to a new phase of economic growth that generates wealth and jobs?
the announcement of the reprogramming of the structural funds lacks clarification and clarification. this announcement is part of the rhetoric that has sought to hide the disastrous effects of the decisions of the last informal european council. to speak of growth and youth employment at the same meeting that institutionalizes the recessionary policies of so-called austerity, that advocates more liberalization and the ongoing attacks on labour laws to facilitate layoffs, as is happening in portugal, more than an exercise in rhetoric is a supreme hypocrisy. the president of the european commission announced that €82 billion was available for this reprogramming for all the member states. well, 40% of this amount, 34 billion euros, is what they want the portuguese people to pay in interest to the imf and the european union as part of the ongoing aggression pact against the country. more than reprogramming, what is needed is a substantial increase in the structural funds, to make solidarity more than insulting propaganda. what is needed is an end to policies that stifle smes and raise youth unemployment to unprecedented levels. what is needed is an end to the intolerable process of extortion of national resources associated with the imf and european union programmes.
the proposal by president barroso to redirect the structural funds available to support our smes and stimulate employment, especially youth employment, could not be more welcome, especially for economies that are being subjected to strong austerity measures, such as the portuguese economy. with the agreement on external assistance and the great difficulties in financing the economy, and in particular our small and mediumsized enterprises, by the banking system, this proposal is of particular importance for regions such as the azores, which, with a high absorption and good use of the funds, but in a context of national recession, can here achieve a real possibility of stimulating their economy through small and mediumsized enterprises and the indispensable contribution of our generation of young people, who are better prepared than ever, in the best response to growth and employment that these funds could provide. what we need to know, commissioner, is how we will actually access these funds and how our regions will participate in their reprogramming.
commissioner, it may sound strange, but talking about cod is a serious matter here in this house. in portugal, traditional methods of cod drying have been used for hundreds of years, and have helped to safeguard public health. that is why i ask why the european commission is now calling into question these methods, this age-old knowledge, in order to impose a single, artificial method, which uses phosphates, which alters the quality of the food, which alters the flavours. and i ask why the commission is touching this method and calling it into question, and i ask this because i also ask what hidden power the nordic companies that have this method will have over the commission to impose this new technology and if i say this, i say it for a very simple reason: it is very sad that we give the citizens the priorities we have chosen to act in the european union. when we see so much missing, but so much missing from europe in so much that is essential to the lives of european citizens, what the european commission chooses as a priority is to go and touch the cod. i am sorry, madam president, but it seems that the commission really has nothing else to do.
last week in portugal was indelibly marked by the statements, on the one hand, of the president of the european parliament, who criticised the establishment of economic ties between portugal and angola, saying that the country was doomed to decline, and, on the other hand, of german chancellor angela merkel, who, in a public speech in berlin, intended to point to madeira to criticise the application of the structural funds. i believe that in one case as in another there were profoundly unfortunate and unjust statements, to use some kindness in qualifying them. in the first case, the president of the european parliament has already provided clarifications, claiming that he was misunderstood. the second would have to be equally retracted, which has not yet happened. the reality of the facts demonstrates exactly the opposite of what has been said, but above all, the dignity and respect that madeira and its people deserve. the fact that the union has helped madeira to overcome the backwardness that separated it from the others is true, it is what it demands and imposes.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common fisheries policy is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a principle which is also reflected in the common fisheries policy. the objectives of the motion for a resolution are clear: the first is to call for the recognition of the multifunctionality of fisheries. this implies an awareness that fisheries are not limited to their traditional extraction, processing and marketing activities, because, in addition to these activities and their socioeconomic value, fisheries play a significant role in the historical, cultural, recreational, tourist, scientific, energy, environmental, educational and other fields, producing public goods for the benefit of society and which must be taken into account in the cfp's financing. a second objective is to propose the notion of conditionality, i.e. positive discrimination for those who provide evidence of the implementation of good fishing practices, whether in the gear used, in the rejection of illegal fishing and in the effort to reduce by-catch. this measure will also have a positive impact in addition to the increased cooperation of shipowners and fishermen in the monitoring and control processes. a third objective is to highlight how fisheries as such and integrated into the integrated maritime policy contribute to the rio+20 summit objectives of job creation and poverty eradication and to the european union's 2020 strategy, promoting smart, sustainable and inclusive growth through its increasingly scientific basis, ecosystem structuring and vocational training. only this renewed, holistic, modern approach to fisheries can make it a real engine of development, which is slow to reach many coastal areas of the member states facing the sea, such as portugal, or maritime regions such as the islands and, specifically, the outermost regions such as the azores. we can't ask for less from the next reform.
the fisheries sector, apart from its strategic importance for the public fisheries supply and for the balance of the food balance of the member states, also contributes considerably to the socioeconomic well-being of coastal communities, local development, employment, the maintenance and creation of economic activities and jobs upstream and downstream of fishing. the european union's common fisheries policy has so far neglected the importance of the multifunctionality of the sector and with it the so-called production of public goods. the deep economic and social crisis affecting the fishing sector, the result of a policy whose central orientation has in many cases been reduced to the indiscriminate killing of vessels, jeopardises the release and full exploitation of the sector's enormous potential in a number of areas, such as the economic, social, historical and cultural, scientific, educational and environmental fields, among others. the question is, commissioner, whether the reform of the cfp under way will help to change this picture or whether it will maintain it or even worsen it. unfortunately, the signs given by the commission so far are not encouraging, we might even say disturbing. the advocacy of an increasing market orientation of the cfp and the gradual elimination of public support - the general philosophy that inspires the reform - forgets that the market does not recognise, and does not properly reward, many of the so-called positive environmental and social externalities for which less competitive segments of the fleet are responsible from a strictly economic point of view. it is well known that, in the general context of the fisheries sector, small-scale coastal and artisanal fisheries, which are largely the majority in many member states, are of particular importance for multi-functionality and the production of public goods. the importance of this segment of the fleet is not sufficiently recognised in the commission's proposal. on the contrary, the commission adopts a reductive and outdated definition of small-scale fishing, while at the same time proposing a change in the cfp management system based on the introduction, with mandatory status in all member states, of a system of transferable individual concessions which could seriously undermine small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing and, with them, the multifunctionality of the sector and the production of public goods. if this system is to continue, and we will do everything we can to ensure that it does not, none of the safeguard clauses already proposed by the commission will be able to stop the inevitable concentration of activity on the operators with the greatest economic and financial power, first at national level, but inevitably sooner or later at european level. it would be a further strong contribution to the decline of many fishing communities more dependent on fishing. these are guidelines that need to be bridged and reversed. there are other ways, alternative ways, which can reverse the decline of the sector and help to realize its great potential. this path involves proposals such as the linking of the new european maritime and fisheries fund with other instruments, notably cohesion policy, to promote the cohesion of the economic and social fabric of coastal communities most dependent on fishing. support for economic activities associated with fishing, both upstream and downstream, diversification, rather than replacement of fishing activities, with the development of complementary activities. priority should be given to projects with integrated solutions that benefit all coastal communities as widely as possible, rather than those that benefit only a small number of operators. access to these projects should be guaranteed to fishermen and families and not just to shipowners. promote the rejuvenation of the sector by encouraging young people to enter the labour market, ensuring that support is provided, inter alia, for meeting vocational training and entry-level needs. the value of activities carried out on land. recognition and appreciation of the role of women in fisheries. the development of a community programme to support small-scale fishing, which, by combining various instruments, particularly financial instruments, will respond to the specific problems of this sector and support sustainable management of the fisheries concerned. these are some of the proposals which we think the reform in progress should welcome, in order to recognise the multifunctionality of the fisheries sector and the production of public goods, among many other proposals in our resolution.
in writing. - i vote in favour because this new body ensures the representation of industries, consumers, smes, online service providers, individual creators, including independent authors. it is important to protect the fair intellectual property rights of creators and innovators. the digital agenda for europe associated with the europe 2020 strategy sets out these guidelines. in line with the s&d group's position, i would also like to highlight the important role played by the former observatory on counterfeiting and piracy in collecting objective data on such offences.
in writing. − the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy was established in 2009, becoming a specialist centre for collecting, monitoring and reporting information and data relating to all infringements of intellectual property rights (ipr) and a platform for cooperation. since its creation, the council has added new responsibilities to its remit, and the european parliament has requested the observatory to compile data from scientific research on counterfeiting and ipr regulation. the continuing increase in infringements of intellectual property rights is a real threat not only to the economy but also to the health and safety of european consumers. the present report, which i supported, is designed to entrust the institute for harmonization in the internal market (ihmi) with the tasks currently carried out by the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy, with a view to improving the exercise of the powers conferred on it, and to allowing the centre to have access as soon as possible to the expertise and financial resources necessary for the performance of its tasks. the office shall invite representatives of the public administration and the private sector to the meetings of the observatory, with appropriate representation of consumer organisations, smes, authors and other creators.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this initiative because this resolution seeks to safeguard intellectual property rights and because it is a fundamental tenet in a developed country, which encourages companies to invest in the eu to maximise their innovative capacities. i welcome this initiative because they consider intellectual property rights to be essential commercial assets, which help to ensure that creators and innovators are fairly compensated for their work and that their investment in research and new ideas is protected.
in writing. − at a time when the dematerialization of information, commercial, artistic and cultural production and knowledge is playing an increasingly important role, it is necessary to strengthen the mechanisms for protecting the intellectual property rights of european businesses and citizens, in particular by raising consumers' awareness of the dangers posed by counterfeiting and piracy to themselves and to the european economy. without this reinforcement, the risk of increased infringements of these rights threatens to grow exponentially. by its very nature and the wealth of experience it has acquired, the office for harmonization in the internal market is the appropriate body to take on the new tasks. i hope that the amendments proposed by parliament will have enriched the original text of the european commission and that the new tasks to be assigned to the institute will have a positive impact on the safeguarding of industrial property rights and, consequently, on innovation and the competitiveness of european enterprises. without adequate protection and a collective awareness of its importance, this will not be possible.
in writing. the report, drawn up by antonio masip hidalgo, is based on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, which assigns certain tasks to the office for harmonization in the internal market (trade marks and designs) such as the protection of intellectual property rights. the regulation also provides for the creation of a european observatory on counterfeiting and piracy, to be based in the spanish region of alicante and to be composed of representatives of the public and private sectors, which will register trade marks at european union level. a modern society preserves its creators and fights counterfeiting and piracy. with this recommendation, the european parliament not only shows that it supports a sector that strengthens culture and creativity, but also champions innovation and the economic growth of small and medium-sized enterprises. conscious of the harmful consequences for growth and jobs of piracy and counterfeiting, i voted in favour of this report, as it is essential to create the conditions for this observatory to become operational as soon as possible in order to guarantee intellectual property rights, inform consumers and fight against piracy and counterfeiting.
in writing. - the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy has been operating for some years. the observatory's mission is to detect and record infringements of intellectual property rights by making a statistical record of them - without any kind of personal data collection. in order to reduce the centre's operating costs, the european commission proposes to incorporate it into the office for harmonization in the internal market. this report is aimed at this alone, not at definitions of data collection or other such matters, but at transferring tasks from one institution to another. although the scope and practical effects of this report are therefore relatively small, we cannot but express our reservations and dissociation, both with regard to the conception of intellectual property rights in force in the eu, and shared by the majority of this parliament, and with regard to the role and objectives of the office for harmonization in the internal market.
in writing. − the economic well-being of the union is based on continued creativity and innovation. measures for their effective protection are therefore indispensable to ensure the future prosperity of the union. intellectual property rights are essential commercial assets that help to ensure that creators and innovators are fairly compensated for their work and that their investment in research and new ideas is protected. the continuing increase in infringements of intellectual property rights is a real threat not only to the union's economy but also, in many cases, to the health and safety of its consumers themselves. effective, immediate and coordinated action at national, european and world level is therefore needed to combat this phenomenon effectively. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the economic well-being of the european union depends on maintaining its creativity, cultural diversity and capacity for innovation - the driving forces of the knowledge society. this is why the protection of intellectual property rights equally benefits businesses, innovators, consumers and stakeholders in cultural creation. over the last few years there has been an increase in copyright abuse and the exchange of counterfeit and pirated goods, which, in addition to the inherent economic damage, is also a morally reprehensible and a civically reprehensible act. the digital economy has led to an increase in the number of infringements of intellectual property rights due to counterfeiting, unauthorised copying and piracy, which are highly damaging to the cultural and creative economy of the european union. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report, which aims to implement measures to counteract this scenario.
in writing. the technological revolution we are witnessing has led to a redefinition of the notion of wealth: this concept, which was traditionally identified with the ownership of landed property, has become predominantly credit-related and is now being used to defend the exclusive exploitation of ideal-sized entities. it is not possible today to think of exclusive rights of use for certain goods without taking account of intellectual property rights, especially in their economic dimension: in fact, we have a great deal of incentive here to take up innovation and development activities. without this degree of protection, which offers the possibility of a return on investment, it is unlikely that firms would use the same degree of force to create new products and services. the proposal to integrate the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy into the office for harmonization in the internal market, seeking to add the activities of that body to the know-how and financial resources available to the office, is therefore to be welcomed. the aim is to strengthen the prevention and detection of piracy, which, in addition to its economic effects, may also jeopardize consumer protection. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the protection of intellectual property is covered by a large number of international conventions. the european union has two important institutions to fulfil this strategic desire, namely the office for harmonization in the internal market (ohim) and the european patent office (epo), which are responsible for the registration of community trade marks and designs. i support the commission's proposal to transfer some of the powers of the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy to the office for harmonization in the internal market, in particular with regard to certain tasks relating to the protection of intellectual property rights, such as trademarks, designs and models. i agree with this report because i believe that there is a need to take further measures in the area of intellectual property protection, thereby reducing the threats to european businesses and increasing consumer safety.
in writing. − the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy is responsible for detecting and recording infringements of intellectual property rights by keeping a statistical record of them - without any collection of personal data. what this report proposes is a measure to reduce the operating costs of the observatory, in this case it proposes to incorporate it into the institute for the harmonization of the internal market. this report is only intended to transfer tasks from one institution to another, not to change the system of defining data collection. we cannot but express our reservations and disagreement both with the conception of intellectual property rights that prevails in the eu and is shared by the majority of this parliament, and with the role and objectives of the office for harmonization in the internal market.
in writing. - i welcome this report, the main objective of which is to establish a european-wide platform for existing national business registers. this platform will be beneficial in promoting the exchange of simple information on business and thus benefiting potential investors, regulators, etc. as it will make information on this subject easier to access and understand throughout the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this initiative because this directive should not limit the rights of member states to levy fees for obtaining information on companies through the system of interconnection of registers, if national legislation provides for this. therefore, the technical measures and specifications for the system of interconnection of registers should allow for the establishment of payment arrangements. this directive should not affect any specific technical solution in this area, as the payment arrangements should be determined at the stage of adoption of the implementing acts, taking into account the widely available online payment facilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates important measures to strengthen legal certainty for businesses and consumers involved in crossborder activities. these measures contribute to the further integration of the eu economic area and its transparency.
in writing. - when we talk about the internal market, we must realise that one of its consequences is increased crossborder trade. this is desirable and should be encouraged, but it also entails the need to make official and reliable information available to the public about companies operating in the eu. the lack of uniformity in the data contained in the various trade registers creates legal uncertainty, which is not in the interests of businesses or consumers. the creation of a centralised european access, where the registration data of all member states are stored in a uniform manner, is therefore necessary. this increases transparency, efficiency and legal certainty, and strengthens the confidence of the 500 million european consumers, which is essential in the context of the exit from the crisis. finally, and once again, i stress the need for a new interconnection system that does not represent an additional administrative burden for european companies. this system should make life easier for all market players and not be a (more) red tape to overcome.
in writing. - new information technologies have made life easier for citizens and businesses, saving time and money. however, while much has been done, much remains to be done in this area and with a view to the full functioning of the internal market. this report, by kurt lechner, concerns the proposal for a directive of the european parliament (ep) and of the council amending directives 89/666/ec, 2005/56/ec and 2009/101/ec as regards the interconnection of central, commercial and companies registers. at a time when business internationalisation is becoming necessary in response to the needs of growth and the existence of national registers alone makes life difficult for companies, especially small and medium-sized enterprises. it is a requirement of smes. this directive is therefore a fantastic tool for faster communication between citizens and businesses and a means of ending the fictitious existence of subsidiaries whose parent companies have disappeared. i voted in favour of this proposal because it represents a major step forward in the single market, bringing greater security and transparency to commercial transactions, and it is a key aid to companies wishing to open branches in another member state or to establish commercial relations with companies in other countries.
in writing. - this report proposes a technical link between existing national registers (trade and company registers). the proposal has no legal consequences as regards its harmonization. it is only intended to provide a platform that allows people to access such records more quickly, without altering or modifying them. amendments nos 10, 11 and 12, proposed by the rapporteur, are clear as to the objectives and scope of the report. in particular, it is noted that this directive is not intended to harmonise national systems of central, commercial and companies registers, and that no obligation is imposed on member states to amend their internal system of registers, in particular as regards the management, storage of data, charging of fees and the use and dissemination of information for national purposes. we have supported this report on the terms proposed.
in writing. − given the opportunities offered by the internal market, companies are increasingly expanding their activities beyond national borders. we are witnessing the creation of transnational groups, restructuring operations, mergers and divisions. in this context, the importance of access to information on companies in a transnational context becomes obvious. however, such information is not always easily obtainable and this legislative resolution is an important step towards further integration of the european economic area. in this respect, i voted in favour of this directive, considering further that the data set necessary for the proper functioning of the central platform should be defined from the system of interconnection of central, commercial and companies registers and that the provision of such data should be made in a careful manner and should not be made directly available to the public.
in writing. − trade registers are kept at national and regional level and consistently differ in de facto and de jure, particularly as regards their legal significance and the reliability of the data recorded. since i consider that the interconnection of business registers is an important measure to promote the integration of the economic area within the eu and to strengthen legal certainty for businesses and consumers, i voted in favour of this report, which aims at legal certainty and transparency in order to promote better interconnection of business registers, saving time and money for businesses.
in writing. − often overlooked, registers make a fundamental contribution to the security of transactions and the certainty of legal facts, helping to avoid situations of uncertainty and therefore litigation. it is therefore understandable that, in a context where the economies of the various member states are highly integrated, contributing to the emergence of international legal relations, there is a need for rapid access to the register data of the various member states. given the different structures of the register systems of the various member states - both in the value attributed to the facts recorded and in the evidence required for their recording - the proposed directive is intended only to create the conditions necessary for the exchange of information between the various member states by reducing obstacles to trade within the community market. on the face of it, this is a laudable initiative. i therefore voted in favour, following the amendments tabled by the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. − the interconnection of business registers is an important measure to promote the integration of the economic area into the european union and to strengthen legal certainty for its businesses and their consumers. the rapporteur believes that it is exceptionally justified to leave decisions to future legal acts, some of which will also take the form of implementing acts, with the full involvement of the member states. the interconnection of company registers will therefore only be successful if the commission and the member states cooperate closely. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. it is stated that: this directive is not intended to harmonise national systems of central registers, commercial registers and companies' registers, no obligation is imposed on member states to change their internal system of registers, in particular as regards management, data storage, charging of fees and use and dissemination of information for national purposes. the report therefore proposes a technical link between the existing national registers (trade and company registers) and not a harmonisation of their legal consequences. the aim is to provide a platform that will enable people to access these types of records more quickly, without altering or modifying them, and we voted in favour of this.
in writing. - i approve this report, since it is in the interest of both parties that the protocol in question be concluded. however, i regret the way in which the commission has been slow to reach a consensus with the european parliament, which has led to the ep not being able to take a decision until halfway through the protocol, which shows a lack of respect for this institution.
in writing. − on 17 march 2008, the council adopted regulation (ec) no 241/2008 on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau for a period of four years, renewable by tacit agreement unless one of the parties denounces it. the app supported the presence of the eu fleet in west africa, created employment and generated additional revenues for the eu market. it has also proven to be relevant to the needs of guinea-bissau, both as an important contribution to macroeconomic and budgetary stability and in terms of the national fisheries policy, as it provides financial means for the implementation of important measures to support the economic development and sustainability of the sector. it therefore appears to be in the interest of both parties that a new protocol be concluded, and this resolution recommends that the european parliament give its consent to its conclusion. during the negotiations, concerns about the need for better monitoring of resources through the best available scientific advice, accelerating the work programme of the joint scientific committee, should be taken into account. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. - bearing in mind that the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and guinea-bissau, in force for the period 2007-2011, would expire on 15 june 2011 and the absence of agreement between the parties on a future new protocol, i am pleased to learn that the two parties have decided to conclude a protocol for at least one year, with the terms of the previous protocol being renewed with little change. i commend this protocol because it allows the activity of tuna (spain, france, portugal), shrimp (spain, italy, greece, portugal), fish and octopus (spain, italy, greece) fishing vessels in exchange for payments of eur 7 million per year, 35% of which will be used to help guinea-bissau develop sustainable and responsible fishing. i voted in favour of this cooperation agreement because it has proved its importance for guinea-bissau, particularly in seeking to contribute to the economic and fiscal stability of that country.
in writing. - as a european, but also as a portuguese, since guinea-bissau is a member of the lisbon-based cplp, it is with great satisfaction that i voted in favour of this protocol between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau in the fisheries sector, which provides for the continuation of fishing for another year by european vessels in guinea-bissau waters, up to a maximum of 37 for tuna vessels and with an annual reference tonnage of 8 800 gross tonnage (gtt) for trawls, with 4 licences for portugal (tuna vessels and shrimp). despite the specificities surrounding the negotiation of this new protocol, i think it is important to stress that the scientific opinion assessing the sustainability of exploitation of fisheries resources in guinea-bissau's waters, in the light of the fishing effort currently being exerted, points to its sustainability for several species. i also think it is important to stress the inclusion of two safeguard clauses in the areas of respect for human rights and democratic principles and the promotion of improved health conditions in the sector, as a way of developing the sector as a whole on a national basis, which, if not implemented, will lead to the suspension of the agreed payments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the eu-guinea-bissau protocol on fishing opportunities because i believe that the agreement, which contains clauses on respect for human rights and democratic principles, benefits both parties. i regret, however, the delay in the procedure for requesting the european parliament's consent.
in writing. - the conclusion of the protocol on fishing quotas between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau, in the form of financial compensation, means that community countries, in particular portugal, can fish in guinea-bissau's territorial waters. it means that both parties to the agreement will be able to benefit mutually and economically from a healthy relationship that contributes greatly to the economic sustainability of that african country. moreover, this agreement, which replaces the previous fisheries partnership agreement of 18 march 2008, proves that constructive cooperation between the eu and that african state is beneficial for both blocs and can thus contribute to the progressive development of guinea-bissau and the security of the maritime zone of which it is a part.
in writing. − on 15 june 2011, when the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau, which had been in force for four years, expired, a new protocol was signed for a period of one year, in order to prepare a new agreement during that period which would respect the provisions of the cotonou agreement. in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and in order for the council to conclude a new protocol, it is necessary for this parliament to approve this proposal for a protocol between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau, which sets out the fishing opportunities for eu fishing fleets in guinean waters and the financial compensation to be paid by the eu. considering that the protocol under consideration renews the terms of the previous protocol, including only additional clauses for the suspension and revision of the payment of the financial contribution and for the suspension of the implementation of the protocol in the event of a violation of the essential and fundamental elements of human rights and democratic principles, as provided for in article 9 of the cotonou agreement, i voted in favour of this recommendation for the approval of the new protocol.
in writing. − the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and guinea-bissau, in force for the period 2007-2011, expired on 15 june 2011. in the absence of agreement between the parties on a future new protocol - due to the eu's refusal to accept guinea-bissau's position that the financial contribution should be increased - the two parties decided to conclude a protocol for a period of one year only, the terms of the previous protocol being renewed with little change. the 37 fishing licences for member states' fleets, of which 4 are for portugal, are thus retained. it should be recalled that the current agreement was temporarily suspended by the eu, which referred to problems with the absorption capacity of the funds related to sectoral support by the guinean state. it is also important to recall the calls we made at the appropriate time, and which we reiterate here, for increased eu support through the adoption of measures, discussed and decided jointly with guinea-bissau, aimed at improving the capacity to absorb community funds. unfortunately, the eu has done little in this area. this shows the fragility of these agreements in their development aid component. weaknesses that need to be looked at and urgently overcome.
in writing. − on 17 march 2008, the council adopted a regulation on the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the european community and the republic of guinea-bissau, in force for a period of four years, renewable tacitly, unless one of the parties denounces it. the gpa was accompanied by a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution for the period from 16 june 2007 to 15 june 2011. since there is little time left for the conclusion of a new protocol before the expiry of the previous one, both parties decided to conclude a protocol for one year in order to have the time necessary to assess the feasibility of a future protocol with a longer duration. in order to allow european union vessels to continue fishing activities pending the completion of the procedures necessary for the conclusion of the new protocol, article 14 provides for its provisional application as from 16 june 2011. pursuant to article 14 (3), the parties shall endeavour to conclude negotiations for a future protocol by 15 march 2012 at the latest.
in writing. − the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau has enabled eu fleet segments from areas heavily dependent on fisheries to access fishing opportunities, supported their regional presence in west africa, created jobs, and generated additional revenue for the eu market. the agreement is estimated to contribute to the employment of 470 eu citizens. the ppp has also proven to be relevant to the needs of guinea-bissau, both as a significant contribution to macroeconomic and fiscal stability and in terms of the national fisheries policy, providing financial means for the implementation of important measures to support the economic development and sustainability of the sector (according to the evaluation report, it contributed on average to 7,3% of annual government revenues and to around 88% of budgeted fisheries expenditure), and having a particular impact on the reduction of unreported and unregulated fishing and on the sector's compliance with eu health conditions in terms of trade in fishery products, which are important conditions for the development of a national fisheries sector. i therefore vote in favour of the extension of the fisheries protocol in question.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 241/2008, adopted by the council on 17 march 2008, aimed at the conclusion of a fisheries partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of guinea-bissau. the agreement was accompanied by a protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution for the period from 16 june 2007 to 15 june 2011. however, as the previous protocol has ceased to apply, negotiations have begun with a view to its replacement. it was signed on 20 december 2011 and is currently awaiting approval by the european parliament. from the community's point of view, the ratio between the financial contribution paid by the union and the benefits received has been 2.2: for annual costs of eur 6,6 million, a total benefit of eur 14,5 million is indicated. the new protocol will also strengthen the eu's position as an external partner. on the other hand, this protocol also offers added value for guinea-bissau. in addition to being a general source of revenue, it supports the local fisheries sector (contributing to some 88% of the sector's expenditure), which is of great importance to the guinean economy. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − in 2008, the eu and the republic of guinea-bissau concluded a fisheries partnership agreement (fpa), accompanied by a protocol setting out fishing opportunities and financial compensation for the period from june 2007 to june 2011. in june 2011, another protocol was signed for a period of one year to allow time for further negotiations for a future protocol with a longer duration. this new protocol contains additional clauses, in the event of violation of human rights and democratic principles, which may lead to suspension or revision of the payment of financial compensation. the new financial compensation amounts to €7 million per year to support the fisheries policy and the sustainability of marine resources in guinea-bissau, and €500,000 to improve the health conditions in the fisheries sector. portugal has historical links with this african country and this new protocol means more fishing opportunities for portuguese vessels and at the same time a form of support for the development of the guinean fishing sector. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. − the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and guinea-bissau, which was in force for the period 2007-2011, expired on 15 june 2011. the two parties have now decided to conclude a protocol for a period of one year only, the terms of the previous protocol being renewed with little change. the absence of a protocol so far has been due to the eu's refusal to accept guinea-bissau's position of the requirement to increase the financial contribution. the agreement maintains the 37 fishing licences for member states' fleets, 4 of which are for portugal. we also want to point out that there are a number of problems in the development aid component which need to be overcome.
in writing. - i abstain from this report. it seems to me that it does indeed open the door to european exports, which would be beneficial for many european producers. however, this is not liquid for all cases, particularly for the agricultural populations most vulnerable to the current crisis. on the other hand, i cannot express my disagreement with the creation of a partnership with a poor country undergoing an important process of democratic transition.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this initiative because, given the profound changes taking place in the southern mediterranean since the tunisian revolution and subsequent events in neighbouring countries, it is important that the eu supports the aspirations of the people in these countries even more, now that these aspirations are shared by their leaders. the kingdom of morocco has been committed to a comprehensive process of political, economic and social reform for several years, and the eu has consistently supported morocco in its efforts to implement its reform programme.
in writing. - for the reasons stated in my explanation of vote on the reciprocal liberalisation of agricultural/fisheries products between the eu and the kingdom of morocco, to which i add the fact that i was the rapporteur of this parliament for the review of the european neighbourhood policy, i am pleased to note the deepening of relations between the eu and its neighbouring countries. specifically in morocco, we note that this country has been engaged for several years in a process of political, economic and social reforms which the eu has supported - and should continue to do so. as can be seen from this recommendation, the advanced statute is part of a common desire to support an endogenous reform process, accompanied by a structured and frank dialogue, of which human rights are an essential element. i therefore voted in favour of this recommendation, which i hope will serve as an additional stimulus to the absolute need for the practical implementation of the reforms under way and their further deepening, with a view to greater civic and political participation of its citizens, both at local, regional and national level. i find that the parliamentary elections last november were a good proof that the country is on the right track in this particular area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the participation of the kingdom of morocco in union programmes because i consider the agreement to be positive in that the eu is thus encouraging morocco to pursue and intensify the reforms under way, ensuring the full participation of its citizens in these reforms.
in writing. − the process of participation of the kingdom of morocco in european union programmes is an incentive for the country, which benefits from a strategic neighbourhood position in relation to the community bloc, to pursue the reforms under way and to feel motivated to initiate others which are naturally essential for its citizens. after the european parliament awarded the 2011 sakharov prize to five protagonists of the 'arab spring' and after we celebrated progress towards democracy and human rights in the arab world, the eu-kingdom of morocco framework agreement on the general principles governing the participation of the neighbouring country in union programmes allows for closer cooperation that is beneficial to both parties.
in writing. the european union has supported all the changes that some of the countries of the southern mediterranean have undergone since the tunisian revolution, known as the arab spring. this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the kingdom of morocco, of the other part, with a view to establishing a framework agreement between the eu and the kingdom of morocco on the conditions under which that country may benefit from eu programmes. the eu, taking into account the history of bilateral relations and the kingdom of morocco's interest in integrating into the eu single market, has supported its development at various levels, as it notes the efforts made by the moroccan authorities to carry out a set of political, economic and social reforms. i voted in favour of this recommendation and welcome the conclusion of the protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the eu and morocco, which allows morocco to participate in community programmes in accordance with the new eu neighbourhood policy.
in writing. - in approving this agreement, the majority of this parliament supports morocco's participation in certain eu programmes and its progressive integration into the eu's internal market. the negative consequences for the moroccan people and for the peoples of the eu countries, particularly those of the closest neighbouring countries with competing production characteristics, such as portugal, are ignored. this agreement, and the measures it provides for, are consistent with the agreement on the reciprocal liberalization of agricultural products, fish and fishery products, the aim of which is to economically colonize new territories in order to overcome the crisis of accumulation of large eu capital. the big european agribusiness multinationals are the winners, seeking to lower production costs by exploiting workers and removing constraints on the exploitation of natural resources. small producers of mediterranean products (fruit and vegetables) in the southern eu countries are also threatened. it is also worth noting the implicit support for the continuation of morocco's occupation of western sahara, in clear contravention of international law.
in writing. − at the association council meeting on 13 october 2008, the european union and the kingdom of morocco adopted a eu-morocco joint document on the strengthening of bilateral relations/advanced statute. the profound changes in the southern mediterranean since the tunisian revolution and the subsequent developments in neighbouring countries call on the eu to support more the aspirations of its peoples, provided they are taken on board by their leaders. the kingdom of morocco has been engaged for several years in a process of comprehensive political, economic and social reform. the eu has always supported morocco's efforts to implement its reform programme. the advanced status is part of a common desire to support an endogenous reform process, accompanied by a structured and frank dialogue, of which human rights are an essential element. the protocol to the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the eu and morocco on the general principles for the participation of the kingdom of morocco in union programmes marks a decisive step in bilateral relations. it allows morocco to participate in all current and future community programmes open to it. this new perspective is in line with the objectives of the eu's new neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − in 2008, the european union and the kingdom of morocco adopted an eu-morocco joint document on the strengthening of bilateral relations/advanced statute. in line with the objectives of the new european union neighbourhood policy, the euro-mediterranean association agreement between the european union and morocco on the general principles for the participation of the kingdom of morocco in union programmes marks a decisive step in bilateral relations, allowing morocco to participate in all current and future community programmes open to it. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the political turbulence in the maghreb countries (particularly tunisia, egypt and libya) requires the attention of the community institutions, because of their geographical proximity to continental europe, in order to protect the common space. in the light of the experience of the european communities, economic cooperation, by introducing links of dependence and interrelationship between peoples, is a privileged mechanism for pursuing some of the central aims of the community project, such as the defence of the fundamental rights of individuals, the rule of law and the democratic legitimacy of government. the adoption of a euro-mediterranean association agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and the kingdom of morocco, of the other part, to lay down the general principles which should govern the participation of the kingdom of morocco in union programmes, is therefore to be welcomed. this step opens up a further door to closer relations between the two areas, allowing the kingdom of morocco, a maghreb state, to participate in various community projects. i voted in favour of this because i saw it as a valuable political advance.
in writing. − the association agreement signed with morocco in 1996 under the barcelona process evolved in 2008 into the advanced statute, with the aim of integrating morocco into the internal market and taking into account the strategic priorities of both entities. the advanced statute also aims to promote concrete reforms in moroccan society and to maintain a political and strategic dialogue, with a focus on respect for human rights, democratisation and good governance. this special status allows for gradual integration into the internal market and also the possibility of participating in the work of community agencies and community programmes, with financial support provided for this purpose. it should be noted that this support is open to all moroccan regions, including western sahara. looking at the arab spring and its effects in this geographical space, i believe it is an important moment to support these countries, where the populations are yearning for better living conditions.
in writing. - firstly, this agreement ignores a key issue: the occupation of morocco by another country - western sahara - and the continuing oppression and denial of the right of self-determination of the sarawi people, in total disregard of international law. in approving this agreement, the majority of this parliament supports morocco's participation in certain eu programmes and its progressive integration into the eu's internal market. the negative consequences for the moroccan people and for the peoples of the eu countries, particularly those of the closest neighbouring countries with competing production characteristics, such as portugal, are ignored. this agreement and the measures it provides for are consistent with the agreement on the reciprocal liberalization of agricultural products, fish and fishery products, the aim of which is to economically colonize new territories in order to overcome the crisis of accumulation of large eu capital. the big european agribusiness multinationals are the winners, seeking to lower production costs by exploiting workers and removing the constraints on the exploitation of natural resources. small producers of mediterranean products (fruit and vegetables) in the southern eu countries are also threatened.
in writing. - i approve this report because it is essential to take account of the fact that scientists have discovered an inactive vaccine which does not pose the risks posed by the previous one. it is now generally accepted that inactivated vaccines are the preferred tool for controlling and preventing this disease in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i know that the aim is to strengthen and improve the fight against bluetongue and to reduce the burden it imposes on the agricultural sector. adapting the existing provisions to recent technological developments allows the development of an inactivated vaccine against the disease.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on vaccination against bluetongue because it contains measures to make the use of vaccines more effective in controlling bluetongue and to reduce the risks and burdens associated with this disease.
in writing. − traditionally, vaccination against bluetongue was carried out with live attenuated virus vaccines, which entailed a number of restrictions on vaccination in order to prevent the spread of the virus to unvaccinated animals. however, scientific developments have allowed the creation of new inactivated vaccines. unlike ' live attenuated vaccines', these can be used safely and without restrictions, as there is no longer a risk of circulating any active virus. in view of the serious consequences of bluetongue for livestock farming, all measures should be taken to make vaccination easier and more effective, in order to protect farmers from animal losses and ultimately to ensure food safety.
in writing. − the text under examination is a recommendation for a second reading, based on the council's position at first reading, and aims at the adoption of a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2000/75/ec as regards vaccination against bluetongue. bluetongue, also known as bluetongue, is a disease which mainly affects ruminants such as sheep, goats and cattle and can take the form of an epidemic when environmental and climatic conditions are favourable, in particular in late summer and early autumn. although there is no record of human contagion, it is necessary to implement measures leading to its eradication. in november 2010, the european union adopted a set of measures to eradicate it, including a vaccination plan using so-called live attenuated vaccines. however, in recent years so-called inactivated vaccines have been developed which, unlike previous vaccines, can be used outside restricted areas. i voted in favour of this recommendation because, taking into account technological and scientific innovation in veterinary medicine, it makes the vaccination programme against bluetongue more flexible and more efficient, reducing the costs of the agricultural sector from this disease.
in writing. − bluetongue is a disease affecting ruminants (cattle, sheep and goats) whose infectious agent - a virus - is spread by a vector insect from animal to animal, with severe consequences for the agricultural sector. the aim of this directive is to update the rules on vaccination against bluetongue by making them more flexible and by making them an instrument not only for controlling the disease but also for prevention. greater agility allows for wider use of the vaccine and lifting restrictions circumscribed to areas where the disease has occurred. in addition, the updates concerned also concern new technologies, in particular the available inactivated vaccines, which are safer than the previous ones, modified live vaccines or live attenuated vaccines, which have allowed the unwanted circulation of the virus in unvaccinated animals. these are very important reasons, and we have supported the report. the council agrees with the objectives proposed by the commission and incorporates most of the amendments proposed by parliament. this directive enters into force on the day following that of its official publication, which is important given the urgency of implementing the control and prevention of that disease and mitigating any consequences in the agricultural sector.
in writing. − vaccination against bluetongue was carried out with live attenuated virus vaccines, which entailed a number of restrictions on vaccination in order to prevent the spread of the virus to unvaccinated animals. however, recent technological developments have led to the emergence of new vaccines with the absence of live viruses. these new vaccines can be used with a higher level of safety and without any restrictions, as there is no longer any risk in the circulation of any active virus. in view of the serious consequences of bluetongue for livestock holdings, all measures should be taken to facilitate good vaccination practices in order to protect breeders from the loss of animals, which often leads to fatal losses for those holdings. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report following the agreement of the european parliament and the council at first reading, which updates the current rules on vaccination against bluetongue laid down in directive 2000/75/ec, making them more flexible. bluetongue is a disease affecting ruminants (such as cattle, sheep and goats) and is transmitted by vector insects which spread the virus from one animal to another, which has been affecting some european geographical areas, in particular portugal. the use of vaccines is, however, limited by the current rules provided for in directive 2000/75/ec, which provides for the use of vaccines only in areas where the disease has occurred and which have therefore been subject to restrictions on movements of animals. the new flexible rules provided for in the draft directive are based on the fact that inactivated vaccines are now available and can also be successfully used outside areas subject to restrictions on the movement of animals.
in writing. − better known as bluetongue, this disease has caused outbreaks in several member states, particularly in central and northern europe. bluetongue affects in particular ruminants such as cattle, sheep and goats and leads to a sharp increase in mortality and disruption of economic activity in the sector. since the frequent outbreaks since 2000, the eu has adopted specific disease control measures, in particular vaccination policies. inactivated vaccines are noteworthy, as they do not put at risk other communities not affected by the same disease. epidemic control within the eu is essential to avoid creating lock-out and embargo situations that will affect the economic sectors concerned.
in writing. - i welcome this report as it contributes to the well-being, greater protection and safety of consumers throughout the european union. the existence of efficient and secure payment systems is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market and for the conduct of economic transactions. as such, i believe that the creation of an internal market for euro payment services (single euro payments area, or sepa) is of great importance and should be considered.
in writing. − this report sets out the technical requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro. the proposal aims to create an internal market for payment services in euro (single euro payments area, or sepa), in which there are no differences in regulation between cross-border and national payments. the integration of european payment markets is expected to bring numerous economic benefits, including: • increased competition and innovation; • reduced fees (payment costs for consumers and businesses); • faster transfers (cross-border payments will be as easy as national payments). the aim of this regulation is to bring about harmonisation and a steady reduction in the fees to be charged on the market, to ensure a level playing field between payment service providers and to provide a more dynamic market, benefiting above all consumers and businesses. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i supported this report because the proposal aims at creating an internal market for payment services in euro (single euro payments area, or sepa), in which there are no differences in regulation between cross-border and national payments. i welcome the fact that this regulation is designed to bring about harmonization and a steady reduction in the fees to be applied on the market, ensuring a level playing field between payment service providers and providing a greater dynamism to the market, benefiting above all consumers and businesses. the regulation covers 32 european countries, including the 27 member states of the european union, switzerland, norway, monaco, iceland and liechtenstein, although for non-euro area countries its entry into force is only mandatory as of 31 october 2016.
in writing. the commission proposal for a regulation, which parliament voted in favour of today, amends the sepa regulation (single euro payments area or sepa) to create an internal market for payment services in euro, in which there are no differences in regulation between intra-european and domestic payments. this regulation covers 32 european countries, including the 27 member states of the union, switzerland, norway, monaco, iceland and liechtenstein. although the sepa direct debit and credit system has already been launched in 2008 and 2009 respectively, there is still a major problem with its actual implementation due to difficulties (resistance...? inertia...? both...?) in migrating to this new payment system. the commission's proposal therefore suggests a transitional period as short as possible, with a perfectly defined timetable (01/02/2014- euro area countries; 31/10/2016- non-euro area countries) and with no possibility of further derogations beyond those provided for in the regulation now adopted. with sepa fully operational, you will be able to use a single debit card throughout europe, for example, or receive your salary in your home country if you work in another european country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it presents a set of measures which will bring economic benefits to the eu, increasing competition and innovation and reducing payment costs for consumers and businesses. from february 2014, it will finally be possible to make cross-border bank payments as if they were national payments, and for example, eu posted workers will be able to keep bank accounts in their home countries and enjoy their salary in the country where they are employed.
in writing. − the creation of the single euro payments area (sepa) is essential for a more integrated financial services market, will increase competition and will eliminate inequalities in treatment between national and crossborder payments made in euro. this, i believe, can have a very direct and positive impact on the lives of european citizens and businesses, facilitating transactions and trade, reducing costs and increasing competition as it broadens markets.
in writing. - slowly, the european union is moving towards its objectives, such as the full functioning of the single market. the report under review, by sari essayah, focuses on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 924/2009 and laying down the technical requirements for enabling credit transfers and direct debits in euro. the single area for payments in euro is the big news in this report and will bring significant improvements in the lives of citizens and businesses. it is estimated that the european economy has gained eur 123 billion in six years. it is a system of facilitated payments across the eu simply having an account in a member state faster, more efficient, safer and at lower costs. it will also make it easier to buy goods via the internet, which will lead to lower prices. i voted in favour of this proposal and welcome the creation of a single payment area which will bring great benefits to both european citizens and businesses, to the extent that member states outside the euro area have already expressed their intention to join this system.
in writing. - this report aims at the creation of the single euro payments area (sepa). the commission's objective is to harmonise payment systems in the euro area in order to create an integrated market for payment services. the main argument for sepa is the benefits for consumers, who will be able to make payments in euro in europe in a simpler, cheaper and safer way, just as if they were doing it in their own country. between january 2008 and november 2009, the sepa credit transfer system (sct) and the sepa direct debit system (sdd) began to be introduced at eu level, including in portugal. by the deadline for migration to sepa instruments (february 2014), all national electronic payment systems for credit transfers and debit cards have to be abolished and replaced by those operating at eu level. despite some positive aspects, the report raises some reservations, both with regard to the specific difficulties that may be felt by some groups of the population, as acknowledged by the rapporteur himself, and with regard to the justification for the transition to sepa, to realise the potential of the single market for europe.
in writing. the commission is proposing to create a single euro payments area (sepa). the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down technical requirements for the transfer of euro credits and direct debits is intended to strengthen and encourage the proper functioning of the internal market by enabling the full benefits of an integrated payments market to be achieved and eliminating the high costs associated with the parallel operation of traditionally existing instruments and sepa products. the main beneficiaries will be consumers, who will be able to make euro payments in europe more economically and securely, but also the financial system itself. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − this report sets out the technical requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro. the proposal aims at creating an internal market for payment services in euro (single euro payments area, or sepa), in which there are no differences in regimes between cross-border and national payments. the aim is to harmonise and continuously reduce the fees to be charged on the market, to ensure a level playing field between payment service providers and to provide a more dynamic market, benefiting above all consumers and businesses. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation aims at creating an internal market for payment services in euro. the aim of this initiative is to reduce transaction costs for consumers and businesses, opening the door to a truly community system, without distinction between national and cross-border transfers. it seems to be a legislative intervention which, in general, deserves applause. i therefore voted in favour, following the proposals for the recasting of the committee on economic and monetary affairs.
in writing. the european commission has drawn up a proposal for a regulation whose main objective is to define the technical requirements for the transfer of small claims and direct debits in euro, with the aim of creating the single euro payments area (sepa). i agree with this report because i believe that the new requirements will help to improve the functioning of the internal market for payment services, facilitate payment systems at eu level and establish equal obligations, rights and opportunities for all market operators. in order to ensure that the change of procedures is correct and rapid, i believe it is essential to involve the banking sector in the transition process, which will last two years, and to oblige banks to carry out intensive information campaigns to inform the public. it should also be noted that, according to the european commission, the creation of sepa could bring economic benefits of around eur 123 billion over the next six years.
in writing. − the commission's objective is to harmonise payment systems in the euro area in order to create an integrated market for payment services through the creation of the single euro payments area (sepa). the main argument for sepa is the benefits for consumers, who will be able to make payments in euro in europe in a simpler, cheaper and safer way, just as if they were doing it in their own country. between january 2008 and november 2009, the sepa credit transfer system (sct) and the sepa direct debit system (sdd) began to be introduced at eu level, including in portugal. by the deadline for migration to sepa instruments (february 2014), all national electronic payment systems for credit transfers and debit cards have to be abolished and replaced by those operating at eu level. there are some positive aspects to the report. however, it does raise some reservations. the rapporteur himself acknowledges that some groups of the population may experience specific difficulties. on the other hand, the rationale for the transition to sepa may lead to the realisation of the potential of the single market for europe.
in writing. - i do not approve this proposal for a decision because parliament has already delivered its opinion on this matter.
in writing. - i wish mr baudilio tomé muguruza every success in the important task for which he is appointed, and i am convinced that he will carry out the duties for which he is now appointed with all the dedication and competence.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several personalities from various eu countries to the court of auditors. all of them submitted their curricula vitae, answered a written questionnaire and were heard by the committee on budgetary control. most of them presented sufficient arguments to justify their appointment to the court of auditors in order to perform their duties competently and independently. i therefore voted in favour of the name of baudilio tomé muguruza.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of mr baudilio tomé muguruza as a member of the court of auditors. all the information submitted and on which my decision is based indicates that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, in particular the guarantees of independence, have been met, and i therefore welcome the appointment of mr baudilio tome muguruza as a member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its objectives are to control the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports, which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. member states shall submit a proposal to the council which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of auditors. i am voting in favour of the appointment of mr baudilio tomé muguruza, as he fulfils the conditions laid down in article 1 of article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
on behalf of the s&d group. i would naturally like to support the recommendation of our colleague mr siekierski and to congratulate the commission, in the presence of mr ciolos, for the non-conformity it has maintained in order to maintain this level of aid to the most needy. it would be incomprehensible to the citizens of europe if european solidarity were to break down at precisely the moment when it is most needed, at the moment of the most acute crisis europe has experienced in many years. so despite the reluctance of some member states, i am convinced that it will be possible to keep this kind of support in the budget line and it does not matter whether it is in agriculture or in any other, the important thing is to keep this aid in the future as long as there is poverty in europe. i hope that future is very short, because if it is short, it is because we have the capacity to eradicate poverty on our continent.
the latest eurostat data for 2010 reveal a dramatic situation of poverty and social exclusion. 26.9% of children aged 0-17 and 19.8% of the elderly are at risk of poverty. in total, as already mentioned, 115 million people in the european union are at risk of poverty, which is almost 24% of the population. today these figures are certain to be even higher due to the impact of the so-called austerity measures, with more unemployment, lower wages for workers and reduced social supports. in this context, it is all the more crucial to continue and strengthen the programme of the food distribution scheme for the most deprived people, in order to ensure that people dependent on food aid and those, many of whom are now dependent, do not suffer from food poverty. in this respect, we believe it is essential that this support be maintained, at least under the current conditions, with an annual funding of eur 500 million, all provided by the european union, in the next funding period 2014-2020.
in writing. today, several eu countries are facing a crisis that is affecting the poorest of the poor. we have 80 million european citizens living in poverty and some 45 million at risk of malnutrition. fortunately, after tough negotiations, there is support for the food aid programme for the most deprived to continue in 2012 and 2013. but it was scandalous how seven countries started by making it impossible at a meeting of agriculture ministers. the austerity plans, which are not confined to the countries assisted by the troika, invariably hit these populations and this has clearly been a political option, supported by the discourse of the inevitability of sacrifices for all. on the other hand, the eu, which was very quick to support the banking institutions with billions of euros, cannot be insensitive and refuse the essential aid to the five hundred million food aid programme, especially in this difficult period when it is needed most. europe has contradictions which must be corrected for the sake of this project and for the sake of european citizens, especially the poorest. a europe of solidarity must strive for greater equality.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, allow me to congratulate the european parliament, and in particular mr nicholson and the fictitious rapporteur for constructive cooperation with the council and the commission, who have enriched the commission's initial proposal and at the same time reached agreement at first reading. the differences in approaches initially expressed were overcome by an open discussion between the three institutions and a strong sense of responsibility which did not lose sight of the real purpose of the exercise, namely to give the dairy sector new instruments to ensure sustainability and to strengthen the organisation of producers in the dairy sector. the milk package is one of the first major agricultural legislative acts to be adopted at first reading under the ordinary legislative procedure introduced by the treaty of lisbon. i think this is a real success of the cooperation between parliament and the council, which shows that it is not the ordinary legislative procedure that prevents us from taking important decisions quickly and consistently. the milk package gives member states the possibility, as mr nicholson has mentioned, of making the milk delivery contract between producers and processors compulsory. the proposal also gives the possibility to milk producers who wish to organise themselves into producer organisations in order to assert their position in the food chain, in particular through collective negotiation of contracts for the delivery of their milk, which is clearly strengthened by this proposal. they will also be able to benefit from the possibility left to member states to impose the obligation on milk purchasers to offer milk producers a contract with a minimum duration of at least six months. the concern to take account of the specific nature of cooperatives, expressed by the high-level groups organized around experts from the member states, is also reflected in the final text. the milk package highlights the role that inter-branch cooperation can play in bringing producers, manufacturers, traders and consumers together to improve transparency in the milk supply chain and mutual understanding of the role of each link in the chain. in the same spirit of transparency, the milk package sets out the framework for monitoring milk deliveries after the expiry of the milk quota system by providing for the provision of the necessary data in a timely manner and thus enabling the commission to provide milk producers and milk market players with market information in a timely manner. the milk package will also play an important role in regulating the supply of quality cheese under a geographical indication, which brings benefits in terms of added value and sustainability, particularly in vulnerable regions. i conclude by saying that two meetings are planned to take stock of the implementation of the provisions introduced by the milk package, the first at the end of june 2014 and the second at the end of december 2018. at each of these dates, the commission undertakes to submit to parliament and the council reports on the development of the market situation in the milk sector. the effects on producers in less-favoured regions will be assessed in particular in relation to the general objective of preserving production in these regions. potential incentives to encourage farmers to enter into joint production agreements will also be assessed.
i would like to say that the commission is very pleased with the proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in milk and milk products. it is another step on the road to justifying the unacceptable and disastrous decision to end milk quotas in 2015 and for that reason alone it is unacceptable. the rest are illusions that those who are now preparing to pass this proposal are selling to the dairy farmers who see their situation worsening every day. the illusion that in a free and unregulated market, which they defend, it is possible to guarantee fair prices for production. the illusion that without instruments to regulate production it is possible to guarantee each country the right to produce according to its needs. what a delusion! this path will reinforce the power of the big economic groups, the big distribution and the big transformation. it will strengthen the concentration of production in some producers and countries, liquidating it in other countries, leading to the ruin of a significant part of their producers. it will continue to facilitate dumping between member states and the flooding of national markets with imported milk. it will continue to promote intensive, export-oriented production, which puts food safety and quality and environmental sustainability at risk. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. what is needed are instruments of regulation and intervention in the markets which ensure fair prices for the producer, taking into account both the cost of the factors of production and the prices charged to the consumer, in order to ensure a fair distribution of the added value along the value chain of the sector.
mr president, commissioner, the milk package which is presented here as an instrument for organising the sector, containing positive and important elements such as the strengthening of the role of producer organisations and inter-branch organisations and contractual aspects which in some member states may constitute a step forward in the relationship between producers and processors, nevertheless leaves us far short of the instruments which the sector needs to prosper in the coming years in the framework of an agriculture which we want to have in europe access to a fair distribution of value in the food chain, which does not turn into agriculture of large intensive farms concentrated in a few member states. if improving the conditions for self-regulation in the relationship between the actors in the sector is desirable, to think that this alone is enough is to commit a serious error which could lead to the exclusion of thousands of milk producers, dozens of regions and even some countries involved in the dairy sector. the debate on the regulation of the dairy sector in the perspective of an economically, socially, environmentally and territorially sustainable sector thus remains open. and we cannot abandon the milk quota system without ensuring that there are real instruments for managing supply.
the commission's proposal for the milk sector is insufficient, especially in view of the fact that it is a highly volatile sector, which is subject to cyclical crises and is undergoing restructuring with the announced end of quotas. this report, despite the meritorious work of the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs, does not do the miracle of making the proposal sufficient to guarantee the future of this sector. the milk package does not replace milk quotas. it doesn 't change much . the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the milk market is not affected by the new rules. the concentration limits are currently exceeded and there are no mechanisms in place to reverse the situation. without any significant new guidelines for the sector, with many producers still paying off the bank credit they used to buy a quota which seems worthless, with the selling price of milk falling, with dumping and cartels operating at the distribution level, what will be the future of regions heavily dependent on milk production as in the azores?
this is yet another agreement that will benefit a few at the expense of many on both sides of the mediterranean. the big european economic groups, the multinationals that are the carriers, and not only those with a large distribution network, are the winners, as they conquer new markets and gain access to cheap labour, as well as the possibility of circumventing social, labour and environmental standards in force in european countries. european producers, especially small and mediumsized producers of typically mediterranean crops, particularly in the fruit and vegetable sector, are losing out, since this agreement will accentuate the pressure already felt to lower production prices and the difficulties felt by many producers in selling their products. family farming is losing out, facing competition from intensive, carrier-based production models. models that threaten environmental sustainability, the viability of regional and local markets, food sovereignty and that degrade food quality and safety. for these reasons, they also lose consumers and populations. moreover, with this agreement, the commission insists on ignoring the problem of the illegally occupied western sahara in the light of international law.
recognising the importance of good political relations with third countries and particularly with our neighbour morocco, and committed to good trade relations, i cannot accept another step towards a so-called joint liberalisation which in fact creates a situation of profound inequality of competitiveness between european and moroccan producers. europeans are bound by stringent and burdensome standards of quality and food safety, as well as agri-environmental and animal welfare standards, which considerably increase the cost of production, without the required certification and labelling protecting them sufficiently or leading the consumer to prefer their products to others produced with lower standards and lower costs. the liberalisation of 55% of morocco's exports to the european union and the increase in concessions in the fruit and vegetable sector have dealt a severe blow to these productions in southern europe, particularly in portugal, but also in spain, italy, greece and france, all member states in difficulty which need to bet on their productive sectors and not, once again, see their agriculture sacrificed to other interests.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, commissioner, the question that is being asked here today, and the green paper on stability obligations, are the result of the work that has been done in this parliament in the six-pack. it is an agreement between parliament and the commission, so that we can add to the idea of stability and the necessary discipline a growth perspective. in november, parliament heard president barroso stress the commission's lines of action: growth, discipline and talk of a common debt issue. president barroso said that the euro zone could solve its situation, that the issuing of a common debt could be done with more vigilance, more discipline and coordination, with a real economic government. ladies and gentlemen, we are facing a great challenge. europe has already produced many documents: the eu 2020 strategy, the roadmap to stability and growth, the euro plus pact, the annual growth survey. the european semester, the commission's programme for growth, and an interinstitutional agreement, all too recent. we are open to considering short-term solutions, such as those proposed by the german scientists. we are open to other solutions which are more medium and long-term. but to say that this is the time to understand the way. a path that requires determination and decision. and in this respect, however little response there may be to the commission's proposals, parliament will always be here.
i am not saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have a right to vote on a treaty, but i am saying that the european parliament should be the only institution in the world to have the right to vote on a treaty. on the one hand, we recognize, and i quote, that the euro zone is in a unique situation with states sharing a currency, without a common budgetary policy and without a european bond market. in this light, the problems of the euro are not those of the greeks, the portuguese or the irish, they are those of europe, because there is no good currency without a european budget worthy of the name, just as there is no good currency without the capacity to issue debt on the same scale. but on the other hand, the resolution also says that the stability of each state, budgetary stability, is a condition, a precondition for eurobonds. this is like telling a patient that he will only be entitled to the medicine if, in the meantime, he has been miraculously cured. it's absurd, it doesn't make any sense at all. european bonds should be seen in the long term as a public instrument for financing economies and not as a reward offered to governments for having complied with the stupidest of the agreements they have invented so far, the treaty reinforcing the stability and growth pact. european bonds must contribute to the restructuring of the debts of countries in difficulty, or else the history of the coming years will continue to be written in greek, based on massive doses of austerity, humiliation and despair.
mr president, commissioner, from may 2010 until today we have seen how a problem that seemed manageable has gotten worse out of control. it is true that the financial markets' response to the crisis has worsened the indebtedness of the euro area countries and that the most fragile have become particularly vulnerable. however, is it possible that countries sharing the same currency are left to the attacks of financial operators and those who profit by betting on the probability of euro countries going bankrupt? the terrible consequences of the council and commission's failure to respond have created problems which are now unquestionable. speculative interest on individual countries has made any strategy for getting out of the crisis impossible. the resulting worsening of the country's economic problem justifies a new interest rate piling until the total cut of credit kills a country's economy and contagion does the rest. this parliament has long advocated a common form of management of sovereign debt subject to strict but clear rules. we welcome the fact that the commission has finally produced a green paper on this subject, the so-called stability bonds. it is now clear that without some kind of such obligations, properly articulated with a european stabilisation mechanism, the so-called protective barriers, the firewalls for sovereign debt do not exist and as long as they do not exist the euro is in danger and so is europe. in the resolution which this parliament adopted by a majority on a new treaty it was absolutely clear that it is not acceptable to continue to impose more rules of fiscal stability, budgetary discipline and sanctions on euro countries without taking concrete and urgent steps in the management of sovereign debt in solidarity. the two processes will have to evolve in parallel. that is what we expect from the commission and it is too late now.
madam president, the euphemistic name for eurobonds - stability bonds - is based on a prerequisite which we reject: the deepening of fiscal economic governance will result in a marked transfer of sovereignty to the great powers. the strategic objective here is not economic growth, job creation and the fight against social inequalities, but the affirmation of the euro as the world reserve currency, which is contrary to the interests of the peoples of the peripheral countries. this mechanism does not guarantee the end of speculative attacks, and it also maintains differentiations in the interest rates of financing in each of the countries. what is needed are not measures which years ago, in the context of a discussion of a profound change in the economic policies of the european union, could have served as shock absorbers for speculation. what is needed now is to reverse the course taken and to abolish economic governance, the euro plus pact and the budget pact.
low to very high frequency radio spectrum is being contested and filled for multiple purposes: electrical power, distribution and consumption, telecommunications, geodesy and navigation and surveillance. but we have some concerns about this issue. we would like to know the commission's opinion. we note that there is no publicly available space on the spectrum, and that it is all compromised or reserved for commercial purposes with strict reservations for security, defence or civil protection issues. we know that the aim of this directive is to open the way for the telecommunications and media and consumer industries, but we think that there is also a need to safeguard a part of the public spectrum which certainly has a different role to play from the markets and we would like to know the commission's opinion on this.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr president, mr ferber tells us that greece has been the target of european solidarity. i assume you feel the same about portugal or ireland, for example. i was asking you what your reaction was to the statements made by klaus regling, a fellow member of parliament and president of the european financial stability fund, who said, and i quote, to be faithful to the original, that the debt rescues of countries like portugal or ireland have been a good deal for the countries which provide them with guarantees. so far, the germans have only gained because we have received interest from ireland and portugal on top of the refinancing we have made and the difference is passed on to the german budget. i ask you, mr. ferber, solidarity or extortion?
i would like to say, mr president, that we expect the next council to take a major economic decision for the countries that are in need of aid, which is closely linked to the question of the structural funds. the structural funds must be made more flexible. there are many that are unused, much of it has been used only and only for large infrastructure. they must be geared to competitiveness, to small and mediumsized enterprises, to economic recovery. the only investment that countries like greece, portugal, ireland and others can have is what is now coming out of these structural funds. i would also like to make a political point to all the politicians in the union, those who are in good faith in the european process. when we talk about systems, we must respect, be very careful about respecting national identities and member states, and not all politicians, sometimes many of them with good intentions, but not all have been up to the challenge of strict respect for the national identity of each member state.
what do the citizens expect from another european council? the delayed decisions defending the single currency and the european project? courageous decisions promoting territorial and social cohesion? decisions that curb national selfishness and prevent european disunity? the austerity programmes, which require so many sacrifices from the citizens of europe, are not the solution and are provoking an unjust and dangerous anti-german sentiment. it is clear that countries as different as greece, ireland and portugal cannot be subjected to the same therapy, since they suffer from different ailments. we need more europe, we need to strengthen political union, we need to mutualise sovereign debts and we need to promote fiscal harmonization. we need economic growth and job creation. without it, we will become poorer, more disunited and more irrelevant in a globalised world. i hope you are aware of the seriousness of the situation and that you have learned the lesson of the crisis of 29. it is that, as in the past, if europe continues to drift along this line, democracy and peace may be at risk. the political decision-makers must urgently give citizens confidence and hope.
mr president, many voices, especially those of the german liberals and right wingers, accuse greece of not complying with the troika agreement. however, what do they have to say about portugal, which is following the book, so that it is more troika-friendly than the troika, and yet portugal, when it signed the agreement with the troika last may, had a public debt of 92% of gdp and now, nine months later, has a public debt of 110% of gdp? does this not mean that the recipe for recessive austerity is wrong and absolutely counterproductive?
mr president, the situation in greece, which the commission and the council have tried to avoid as much as possible, shows us the destructive potential of the imf and the european union's pacts of aggression. in portugal, as in greece, these pacts of aggression are aggravating all the national problems. as in greece, portugal is already rehearsing the announcement of the failure of the first aggression pact, who knows to make way for a second one. the sad scenes we have seen in the last ecofin overturn the oaths that greece is a unique case and represents the private recognition, unexpectedly designed for the public square, of what everyone has already realized. under the conditions imposed by the european union and the imf, the debt is unpayable, but it will continue to justify a continuing and intolerable process of extortion of national resources. in this context, an essential thesis is confirmed: the defeat of these pacts of aggression by the european union and the imf is the most urgent task facing the workers and peoples of europe. the struggle, which may be prolonged, over its application is a decisive factor in determining the rhythm of the collective life of the peoples of europe in the years or even decades to come.
the european union is currently going through a difficult period in which we all have to be united: citizens, european institutions and member states. confidence in the single market, which is the basis of the european union, has been damaged by the current crisis and must now be restored. i believe that the austerity measures that have been implemented in some euro-zone member states are not suited to pursuing this end. these policies must be accompanied by initiatives that promote (and rapidly) economic growth, with particular attention to small and medium-sized enterprises. measures to combat youth unemployment are urgently needed for the future of the single market and the european economy. i therefore look to the next european council to give a clear voice to these demands.
i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to introduce a new directive on the protection of workers from harmful exposure to asbestos. today, with the first results on macroeconomic imbalances in europe, the veil is beginning to be lifted on why, in the european union and in particular in the eurozone, some countries are growing while others are fatally declining. europe is losing competitiveness on external markets and this agenda must be revised because this is where much of the insufficient internal growth is taking place, but concentrated on the internal market, 4 countries, including germany, are accumulating successive surpluses year after year, while 20 other countries - i repeat 20 - are also accumulating deficits year after year. as deficits accumulate, these countries' external debt increases unsustainably. of course, this process must be controlled. of course, discipline is needed. but it is important today to ask: is the solution of crushing the weakest with recessionary policies the only possible solution in this context? is tax competition by some winners within the internal market still tolerated? can the largest european economy continue to develop common policies that favour it and internal economic policies that, while being right for its economy, capture in its favour the bulk of the gains of the internal market? can the commission and the council continue to impose recessionary policies that squeeze the economies of the most vulnerable, openly discussing the possibility of sovereign states in the euro area going bankrupt when they know that firecrackers have never left the agenda? are the commission and the council fully aware of the explosive political and economic risk this speech poses to europe? yes, we need to radically overhaul the recipes. but that requires political will. until that will exists, out of respect for the citizens, let us stop saying that we are in favour of growth and employment, because it is not true. and the public cannot continue to be fooled.
mr president, i would first like to welcome the rapporteurs. it is now commonplace to say that we are experiencing the most serious financial, economic and social crisis since the creation of our modern international financial model. it is never too much to stress that unemployment rates in the european union have reached historic highs to demand that the fight against unemployment be the top priority. youth unemployment is dramatic. in my country, portugal, more than one in three young people are looking for work and have no prospect of finding it. our citizens are unbelievers. it is urgent to restore their trust. after years of reckless management of public finances, it is time to adopt budgetary reconciliation reforms and to get the books in order. but let us not delude ourselves, austerity without economic growth is only a partial solution. the creation of more and better jobs is the great european design. measures to ensure that young people do not have more than four months to go without a job or training offer, and to reduce the risk of poverty and social exclusion, must be a reality.
the policies contained in the european semester, in economic governance and in the budgetary pact are a reinforcement of the legitimacy and institutionalization of the so-called austerity measures, which we cannot accept. this recipe can never and cannot be reconciled with the principles of social justice, growth and the promotion of employment, because they call for the exact opposite, the reduction of wage costs, the increase in the exploitation of workers and the retreat of the state, the attack on acquired social and labour rights. these policies of so-called fiscal consolidation are causing real social tragedies and disasters, such as the increase in poverty, in addition to the fact that they are only deepening the path of economic recession and the increase in public debts. what is needed is a real break with this path. the construction of a europe of cooperation, whose main objective is to defend the interests of the peoples and to put an end to the processes of oppression and colonization by the major powers. last saturday, in the streets of lisbon, portugal, more than 300,000 people demanded an end to austerity measures and promised that the struggle would continue.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating the various rapporteurs on the documents we are discussing here today, in particular my colleague jean-paul gauzès, who in his report stresses the need to find solutions to the financial and sovereign crisis we are currently experiencing. it is also a matter of discipline, but also of strengthening medium- and long-term growth measures. doing everything at once and often in contradictory ways is not the solution. firstly, we must find short-term solutions to provide liquidity to the real economy, to solve the banking crisis we are currently experiencing, to solve the problem of the states. secondly, we must move towards a set of structural reforms which are clearly geared towards economic growth, and finally, we also need a set of institutional changes in the way the euro and the european union operate. finally, a clear political discourse is needed. we must all support it and i commend the way the council has done it here today.
in writing. - i support this recommendation, as it is essential to strengthen cooperation within the union, in this case with norway, switzerland, liechtenstein, switzerland and iceland, particularly with regard to one of the most important legislative acquis of the european union, the schengen treaty. at the moment we are going through, it is all the more important to promote the capacity for dialogue between countries and between countries and institutions in order for the union to function well and for the objectives of the treaties to be fully achieved.
in writing. − i welcome the conclusion of this agreement between the eu and the four schengen associated states, namely iceland, norway, switzerland and liechtenstein, which will enable these states to participate in the work of the committees which assist the european commission in the exercise of its executive powers in relation to the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. in my view, this agreement is important because it aims to ensure greater coherence and at the same time to ensure that all associated states are treated equally. the participation of the associated states gives them the opportunity to express, in a timely manner, their ideas and concerns regarding the implementation or possible developments of the schengen acquis. the enlargement of the schengen area to non-eu countries has brought significant economic benefits to european countries as well as immediate practical results in the daily lives and movement of european citizens.
in writing. − i support the conclusion of this agreement between the eu and the four schengen associated states, namely iceland, norway, switzerland and liechtenstein, which will allow these states to participate in the work of the committees which assist the european commission in the exercise of its executive powers (comitology) in the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. the conclusion of this agreement is of the utmost importance in order to ensure greater consistency and, at the same time, to ensure that all associated states are subject to the same form of treatment. the participation of the associated states gives them the opportunity to express, in a timely manner, their ideas and concerns regarding the implementation or possible developments of the schengen acquis. however, their participation is limited to possible contributions to the decision-making process and they cannot participate in the decision-making process itself, as they do not have the right to vote. they shall be subject to a set of rights and obligations which guarantee their effective participation as observers and shall also contribute financially to the administrative costs arising from their participation in the schengen comitology committees.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the participation of iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland and the schengen acquis, as i regard the agreement between the european union and these states as positive with a view to their participation in the work of the committees which assist the european commission in the exercise of its executive powers in the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis.
in writing. − the participation of the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation in the committees assisting the european commission in the exercise of its executive powers in relation to the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis is of the utmost importance for the full transparency of information and, as such, for the security of citizens of the states of the european union and of the countries cohabiting with the same community agreement.
in writing. - the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union, of the one part, and the republic of iceland, the kingdom of norway, the swiss confederation and the principality of liechtenstein, of the other part, on the participation of those states in the work of the committees which assist the european commission in the executive powers conferred on it in implementing, applying and developing the schengen acquis. the schengen agreement, which was initiated in 1985 and incorporated into eu law by the treaty of amsterdam in 1997, establishes a geographical area of free movement of persons, abolishing internal borders between the signatory states, and provides for cooperation and coordination between police services and judicial authorities. the agreement provides for the participation of the associated states as observers in the work of the current and future committees of assistance to the commission by means of certain rights and obligations, in particular the payment of a financial contribution. since the participation of the abovementioned states is provided for in the agreement on the european economic area or is based on the exchange of letters annexed to the association agreement with switzerland (the case of the swiss confederation), i am voting in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. the schengen agreement, created in 1985 and the convention implementing it adopted in 1990, had the following objectives: - to abolish internal border controls between the signatory states and to create a single external border with common visa rules; - to establish police and judicial cooperation and to set up a schengen information system. we have always criticised this approach to building a fortress europe, which simultaneously encourages and feeds the development of racism and xenophobia, as well as other forms of intolerance and authoritarian and anti-democratic practices. as we have already criticised the common immigration policy as being security-oriented, criminalising, exploitative and selective towards immigrants. we are in favour of an immigration policy which respects the rights of immigrants, particularly in terms of access to employment, health care and education. despite these longstanding positions, we believe that the decision to join schengen must be taken by a sovereign decision of the countries concerned (another longstanding position). that is why we abstained.
in writing. − these states, being parties to the schengen agreement, must also contribute to its development by actively participating in the work of the committees which assist the european commission in the exercise of its executive powers in implementing, applying and developing the schengen acquis. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament recommendation in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the union, of the agreement between the european union and the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation on the participation by these states in the work of the committees which assist the european commission in the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis.
in writing. − the council has submitted to the european parliament a draft agreement between the european union and the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation concerning the participation of these states in the work of the committees which assist the european commission in the exercise of its executive powers with regard to the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. i voted in favour of the agreement, since the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs has not raised any objections to the conclusion of the agreement, which can add value to the smooth functioning of the schengen area.
in writing. − this recommendation allows iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland to participate effectively in the work of the committees on which the ec exercises its executive power in the context of the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis. i agree that the ep should endorse this recommendation, which allows the associated states themselves to have rights and obligations. the abovementioned countries have observer status in the schengen committees, their representatives cannot vote but must be informed of the acts and measures to be applied, and they contribute financially to administrative expenses. finally, a joint declaration was annexed which states that this agreement will not have repercussions on other matters. the development of the schengen area requires that the countries which are parties to it fully comply with their obligations, so that a genuine european area without frontiers can be achieved.
in writing. the schengen agreement, created in 1985 and the convention for its application adopted in 1990, aimed to abolish internal border controls between the signatory states and to create a single external border with common visa rules, to establish police and judicial cooperation and to create a schengen information system. we have always criticised this approach to building a fortress europe, which encourages the development of racism and xenophobia and other forms of intolerance and authoritarian and anti-democratic practices. the construction of fortress europe, the europe of schengen, is being carried out through a common immigration policy of a security-oriented, criminalising, exploitative and selective nature. and we are in favour of an immigration policy in which member states respect the rights of immigrants, particularly in terms of access to employment, health care and education. despite these observations, we do not consider that we should comment on the decisions of the countries concerned (iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland) in relation to the agreements signed with the european union.
in writing. - i support this report because the guidelines suggested to support active employment policies should be the highest priority for the european union at this time. austerity does not guarantee growth or liquidity, which in turn would create jobs, especially in the area of smes which employ the vast majority of the population of the european union and for which specific incentives should be created. as such, the eu must ensure that all member states, especially those affected by the troika, are able to implement such measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the adoption of this resolution today finally draws attention to a subject which is central to the future of europe. employment has been the biggest victim of the crisis and of the inadequate employment policies of recent years. the situation, especially among young people, is unfortunately getting worse. a market reform to stimulate employment, backed up by a policy of real investment in the younger generation, will give them concrete answers: a new plan to modernise the systems of employment, education and training and, finally, to improve the individual. the real challenge will be to enable and encourage a diverse work experience in life, while preserving and ensuring professionalism and remuneration. even more necessary are the major revisions to the national labour market, which aim to reactivate the european economy. only the increase in the competitiveness of the european union will give investors more confidence and promote the growth of new jobs.
in writing. − in accordance with article 145 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the member states and the community are working to develop a coordinated european union strategy for employment and for the promotion of a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce. the europe 2020 strategy puts the european union on the right track towards the desired sustainable, inclusive and multiplier-effect economic growth, which allows for a high level not only of employment but also of social cohesion, productivity and competitiveness. within the framework of the objectives previously set to increase labour market participation and reduce structural unemployment, to develop a skilled workforce and to promote quality employment and lifelong learning, to improve the performance of education and training systems at all levels and to increase participation in higher education, as well as to promote social inclusion and the fight against poverty, it is considered that these guidelines should remain unchanged until 2014 and that their update should be strictly limited after that date. i agree with the rapporteur and therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which supports the commission's proposal to launch a new strategy for employment based on greater coordination of economic policies. the importance of this strategy is to put sustainable growth and competitiveness at the heart of the european agenda.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis that began in 2009 is showing little sign of recovering. on the contrary, it drags along states which initially seemed immune. it was against this background of uncertainty about the end of the crisis that the last european council took place. the report prepared by pervenche berès focuses on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for member states' employment policies. i welcome the measures adopted by the council to channel funds to programmes promoting growth and employment, in particular those aimed at small and mediumsized enterprises and youth employment. because it is essential for the eu to have a strategy for growth and jobs, i voted in favour of this report, which contains a set of measures to combat unemployment and promote sustainable economic growth.
in writing. - this report, from the committee on employment and social affairs, merely recommends that the european parliament accept and continue the 2010 employment policy guidelines, without proposing the necessary changes to the economic and social policy pursued by the commission. like everything was going great. as if unemployment in the european union did not already amount to more than 23 million unemployed. as if youth unemployment were not of such a dramatic dimension as it is, never seen in many countries, as in portugal, which has the highest unemployment rates since 25 april. in other words, through this report, which is the responsibility of a social democrat member, parliament is endorsing the neoliberal agenda, which it sometimes criticizes (in an opportunistic way), including the promotion of flexicurity, the increase in the retirement age, the so-called austerity policies, in short, the increase in the exploitation of workers. we do not accept the continuation of these policies and we demand new guidelines for the employment policies of the member states, which do not attack workers' rights but rather extend them and bring them into line with scientific and technical progress. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. − given that unemployment has reached worrying levels since 2008, with 23 million unemployed in the eu, corresponding to 20% of the active population, and that to meet its employment target the eu will need to create jobs for a further 17.6 million people by 2020, it is with concern that i vote in favour of this resolution, calling for greater ambition in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and in creating sustainable jobs by improving the conditions for increased participation in the labour market, in particular in education and training.
in writing. − as the broad objectives and priorities expressed in the guidelines for employment policies adopted on 21 october 2010 remain valid, i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a council decision on the guidelines for the employment policies of the member states. in fact, in this act, the european parliament merely confirms the employment policies, which, according to the provisions of the adoption decision, should remain stable until 2014, in order to ensure that emphasis is placed on their implementation.
in writing. − the draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the employment policy guidelines in the member states, tabled by the employment committee, only confirmed the employment guidelines established by the commission in 2010. despite the deteriorating economic situation since then, with unemployment rates rising exponentially in almost all member states, the european parliament has waived its right to require the council and the commission to come forward with new, binding measures to promote investment geared to job creation. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − following up on the europe 2020 strategy, a number of key objectives have been set for economic growth and social cohesion, in a policy of coordination between the action of the member states and the community institutions. these guidelines are incorporated in the commission proposal and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - according to eurostat, the european union currently has around 23 million unemployed, 8 million more than in 2008, most of them young people who cannot find an opportunity in the labour market. among eu member states, the highest unemployment rates are in spain (22.9%), followed by greece (19.2% in october), with portugal in sixth place with 13.6%. on the contrary, the lowest rates are found in countries such as austria (4.1%), the netherlands (4.9%) and luxembourg (5.2%). article 145 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states and the eu are to endeavour to develop a coordinated strategy in the field of employment, thus endorsing the intention of the european commission and the european parliament to strengthen the employment policy guidelines, as set out in the council decision of 21 october 2010.
in writing. the report, which comes directly from the committee on employment and social affairs, only recommends that the ep accept and continue the 2010 employment policy guidelines, without proposing the necessary changes to the economic and social policy pursued by the commission. in this way parliament is accepting the continuation of the neoliberal policies of promoting flexicurity, raising the retirement age, the so-called austerity policies, in short, increasing the exploitation of workers. we do not accept the continuation of these policies and we demand new guidelines for the employment policies of the member states which do not attack the established rights of workers, the right to collective bargaining and acquired social rights.
in writing. - i vote in favour. one of the problems that the eu still faces, despite the level of development we have reached, is malnutrition, which mainly affects the homeless, families in difficulty, the unemployed, who are increasing substantially at the moment, single-parent families, migrants, asylum seekers, the socially disadvantaged elderly and disabled children. 7 countries initially ruled out the support programme under consideration, citing legal issues, and this was an unfortunate attitude which, unfortunately, is only being overcome by 2013. i would remind you that the eu was very quick to support banking institutions, but it is very insensitive when it comes to solidarity with the most disadvantaged. it is necessary to reflect on this to prove that we live in a europe with these contradictions, which must be abolished.
in writing. − the free food distribution programme for the eu's most deprived citizens, set up in 1987 under the common agricultural policy (cap), currently provides food aid to 18 million people living in poverty in 20 eu member states. the current economic crisis, coupled with difficult weather conditions, has had a strong impact on the poor. almost 18 million people in europe are currently benefiting from the food aid for the poor programme. i voted in favour of this programme continuing until the end of 2014, with a budget of up to €500 million per year, to help 18 million of the eu's most deprived people in 20 member states.
in writing. - i support this proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 to improve the general rules for the supply of food from intervention stocks to certain organisations for distribution to the most deprived persons in the community. this reform is essential not only because of the increased demand due to recent eu enlargements, but also because of the increased difficulties due to high food prices in europe and the costs of supplying it. to ensure that the food supply continues to at least supply those already benefiting from this support, there has already been a shift in priorities, with a greater emphasis on the long-term sustainability of agriculture over the primary objective of increasing food production. of the proposals put forward, i would like to highlight two of the most important. now more than ever, there must be a long-term perspective in the planning of distribution schemes by national authorities. distribution programmes will be implemented in this way on a three-yearly basis to improve efficiency and flexibility levels. secondly, i agree with the need for a better definition of priorities. member states will have to draw up their requests for support on the basis of pre-established and objective national food distribution programmes and priorities for the most deprived.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the distribution of foodstuffs to the most deprived people in the union because i believe it was essential to reach an agreement which would unblock the impasse which existed in the council two years ago on this subject and ensure the continuity of this programme in the next financial framework. in times of crisis, european solidarity with the most vulnerable is all the more necessary. the right-wing majority in the council has shown a great deal of social insensitivity.
in writing. - according to european commission figures, 43 million people in the european union are at risk of food poverty, which means that aid programmes are crucial to ensuring a minimum standard of living for them. it is therefore neither understandable nor justifiable that, at a time when the crisis threatens to increase the number of people in poverty, the issue of food distribution to the most needy has been blocked for more than two years. it is also not understandable, nor is it defensible, that the decision we have adopted today is to maintain the food aid programme until 2013 only. we need a program beyond 2013. i would like to reiterate once again that the necessary reduction in expenditure cannot justify social insensibility, especially towards the poorest and most vulnerable in our society.
in writing. − this recommendation for second reading, drawn up by czeslaw adam siekierski, concerns the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 as regards the distribution of foodstuffs to the most deprived citizens of the european union. after a long wait to resolve this problem, it was finally possible to reach a consensus and release the amount of 500 million euros to support the needy through food banks. i welcome the fact that this support has been made possible and i hope that it will continue beyond 2013.
in writing. − poverty and social exclusion have been increasing in the european union. their growth is accompanied by the violent social regression under way. the latest eurostat data for 2010 reveal a dramatic situation - 26.9% of children up to 17 years and 19.8% of the elderly are at risk of poverty. in total, 115 million people in the eu are at risk of poverty, equivalent to 23.4% of the population. today, these figures will certainly be higher due to the impact of the so-called austerity, and especially the sordid imf-eu aggression pacts (in portugal, greece and ireland). there's more unemployment and lower wages. on the other hand, the reduction of social rights, the increase in the prices of public services and their privatization have further aggravated this situation. it is in this context that it becomes all the more urgent to continue and strengthen the programme of the food distribution scheme for the most deprived people, in order to ensure that those who are dependent on food aid - and the many others who are now dependent - do not suffer from food poverty. that is why we supported this report. the position of countries such as germany in the council to block the continuation of this programme is therefore unacceptable.
in writing. - the european union faces a serious problem of poverty and social exclusion. with the impact of the economic and social crisis and the austerity measures being implemented, this problem is aggravated, reflected in more unemployment, pension cuts, lower wages, more vulnerability, more poverty. in this context, it is essential to support and strengthen the programme for the distribution of foodstuffs to the most deprived. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the scheme for the distribution of food to the most deprived, set up in 1987 under the cap, currently provides food aid to 13 million people in poverty in 19 member states and involves some 240 food banks and charities in the distribution chains. in the eu, 43 million people are at risk of food poverty, according to the commission's own estimates, a figure which will tend to increase due to the economic and financial crisis and the sharp rise in food prices. we must therefore try to avoid an immediate and drastic reduction in food aid as a result of the reduction in the funding of the programme from 500 million to 113 million euro. the interruption of this aid programme without prior warning or preparation has serious repercussions for the most vulnerable eu citizens. it is therefore necessary to find a way to continue the scheme of food distribution to the most deprived persons in 2012 and 2013 (the remaining years of the current funding period) and also in the new funding period 2014-2020. after the council's repeated deadlock which has delayed this programme, it is urgent to overcome the problems so that citizens in need of help are not further harmed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, to allow the programme to be viable in 2012 and 2013 with a 100% european funding rate. the whole set of substantive amendments suggested by the ep and accepted by the council also justifies my vote in favour. i am referring in particular to the concept of eu origin of foodstuffs, the obligation to clearly indicate at distribution points the union's participation in the programme, the purchase of foodstuffs through competitive procedures, the reimbursement of storage costs borne by charitable organisations. i cannot but express my deep concern for the future of this programme, as there is currently agreement in the council that this programme will be phased out after the completion of the 2013 annual plan. this programme has been instrumental in alleviating the hardships of many of our poor, and in the current situation of widespread economic crisis in which the number of poor has been increasing dramatically and regrettably, the 'announced death' of the programme cannot be accepted.
in writing. − in this recommendation, parliament proposes to adopt the council position at first reading, adopted on 23 january 2012, with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulations (ec) no 1290/2005 and (ec) no 1234/2007 as regards the distribution of food to the most deprived persons in the union. the council's position to include all the substantive amendments proposed by the ep at first reading and to consider, in particular, that the full union funding of the programme should be maintained, i voted in favour.
in writing. - the latest eurostat data for 2010 reveal a dramatic situation of poverty and social exclusion - 26.9% of children aged 0-17 and 19.8% of the elderly are at risk of poverty. in total, 115 million people in the european union are at risk of poverty, equivalent to 23.4% of the population. today, these numbers will certainly be higher due to the impacts of the so-called austerity measures, with more unemployment, lower wages for workers. on the other hand, the reduction of social rights, the increase in the prices of public services and their privatization have further aggravated this situation. in this context, it is all the more crucial to continue and strengthen the programme of the food distribution scheme for the most deprived people, in order to ensure that people dependent on food aid - and the many who have now become dependent - do not suffer from food poverty. we therefore voted in favour of the report, but we consider it essential that it be decided immediately that in the next funding period 2014-2020 this support should be maintained at least under the current conditions, i.e. an annual funding of eur 500 million provided entirely by the european union.
in writing. − in this period of economic crisis, the importance of the communications sector must be emphasised, as it is currently the sector most associated with economic growth, also contributing to the permanent creation of new services for european citizens and being an added value to be exploited in the european union. the s&d group advocates an innovative management of the european union's vast spectrum, with the aim of economic, social and cultural well-being. the adoption of this report will strengthen cooperation between member states, with a trend towards harmonisation, with a single strategic instrument on radio spectrum at eu level, which will make it possible to overcome gaps, reduce differences between member states and find the best economic, social and cultural solutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this text because it will encourage the use of mobile broadband and stimulate economic growth in our territories. i am pleased to know that a pan-european telecommunications market will create new opportunities, open up new territories and stimulate growth in a market of 500 million consumers. the accessibility of radio spectrum is essential for a wide range of activities, from telecommunications to energy to research and above all global development. it will also enable all european citizens, urban and rural, to enjoy the benefits of digital technology and broadband connections. for all these reasons, i supported this report in the plenary.
in writing. − we have been working to promote a coordinated community approach to avoid market distortions, to maximise the benefits of spectrum use and to ensure optimal use from a social, economic and environmental point of view. this radio spectrum initiative is of crucial importance in the digital agenda and the europe 2020 strategy, as spectrum use has an increasing influence on sustainable growth, competitiveness and productivity in the internal market across several important eu sectoral policies. given that radio spectrum is a scarce resource, this initiative should allow the definition of policy guidelines and objectives for the strategic planning and harmonisation of the use of spectrum by 2015, thus contributing to a flexible and coordinated european policy ensuring an efficient and effective allocation and use of radio frequencies. i congratulate the rapporteur, gunnar hökmark, for having succeeded in reaching a political agreement with the council, paving the way for a development which should give the eu the possibility of becoming the global leader in terms of broadband speeds, mobility, coverage and capacity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on radio spectrum policy because it includes measures to strengthen the european regulatory framework for radio spectrum and thus to make the most of the economic, social and cultural benefits associated with it.
in writing. − access to electricity spectrum is essential to ensure that all european citizens, both in rural and urban areas, can access digital technologies and broadband connections, representing the total volume of this sector of approximately eur 200 billion. therefore, and given the value of radio spectrum, it is urgent to define the priorities of the union in its allocation and use. the digital agenda, the digital economy and this first five-year political programme are therefore intended to stimulate our economy and make the internal market a reality for all its components. the aim is to regain global leadership for the european telecommunications industry and create an impetus for greater productivity, cohesion, competitiveness and access to a single market.
in writing. - in the past, the european union was a leader in technological innovation, particularly in mobile communications. over the years, the united states and japan, as well as some emerging economies, have taken the lead in this matter. it is time for the eu to take the lead again in this field, by taking advantage of the new opportunities offered by the internet. this is a new dynamic which could help to revive the european economy. the text under vote is a recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading and is aimed at adopting the decision of parliament and the council on a multiannual programme for radio spectrum policy. today, there is an exponential increase in online data transmission. however, the transmission conditions due to the radio frequency have not kept up with demand despite the installation of fibre optic cables. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i am sure of the added value of the multiannual plan for increasing frequencies, namely 800 mhz by 2013 and 1200 mhz by 2015. the future economy will be a digital economy and with these measures the eu is taking a step forward in its competitiveness.
in writing. − this proposal sets out the policy guidelines and objectives for strategic planning and harmonisation of the use of radio spectrum by 2015. we agree that there is a need for planning and organisation of radio spectrum, and we consider it essential that this be done within the framework of cooperation between member states, preserving it as a public good and preserving it in the guidelines that aim to put radio spectrum at the service of the eu 2020 strategies, the digital agenda for europe and the single market act. policies that claim to aim at improving the market, competitiveness and competition for the launch of the so-called digital single market have, in fact, contributed greatly to the worsening of the crisis of capitalism and its negative consequences for the populations. radio spectrum from low to very high frequencies is being contested and filled for multiple purposes, paving the way for the business of future digital services at union level and stimulating effective competition. however, it is essential to preserve and defend the space for public access and to prevent its total commitment to commercial purposes, which is the direction towards which the policies of the european union are inclined.
in writing. − in the current environment, where new technologies play an increasingly important role, it is essential that all european citizens have the same conditions of access to digital technologies and broadband connections, regardless of whether they live in rural or urban areas. the digital agenda, the digital economy and this first five-year political programme, now approved, are therefore essential for the development of the economy and contribute to the development of the internal market. the aim is to regain global leadership of the european telecommunications industry and to increase productivity, cohesion, competitiveness and access to a single market. the approval by member states of the proposal of the parliament and the council to open the 800 mhz band to electronic communications services by january 2013 will contribute to the creation of a pan-european telecommunications market, where new services can create opportunities and growth for a market of 500 million consumers.
in writing. − the political agreement reached with this report on a multiannual radio spectrum policy programme will pave the way for a development that will enable the european union to take global leadership in broadband speeds, mobility, coverage and capacity. i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it can be an essential foundation for the creation of a flexible and coordinated european radio spectrum policy, allowing for exponential growth in mobile data traffic through future reallocation and putting inefficient use of spectrum in the past. the studies indicate that the approval by member states of the proposal of the parliament and the council to open the 800 mhz band to electronic communications services by january 2013 will contribute to the creation of a pan-european telecommunications market, where new services can create opportunities and growth for a market of 500 million consumers.
in writing. − the legislative procedure for adopting a multiannual programme in the field of radio spectrum policy was launched with the proposal for a decision presented by the european commission on 20 september 2010. the european parliament therefore adopted its position at first reading on 11 may 2011, with a number of amendments. however, following five informal trilogues, the european parliament and the council reached agreement on the legislative proposal. following the work carried out in the course of a cooperation procedure between the various institutions, i voted in favour of the european parliament's position at second reading, in the hope that the regulation reached will contribute to the vitality and dynamism of the european economy.
in writing. − in september 2010, the european commission adopted three complementary measures to facilitate the deployment and uptake of fast and ultrafast broadband in the european union. in may 2011, the european parliament adopted its opinion at first reading, making 88 amendments to the proposal submitted by the european commission. among the amendments adopted, the commission emphasises the expansion of unlicensed spectrum allocations to allow for greater use of wi-fi technology and the guarantee of broadband access to all eu citizens at a speed of at least 30 mbps by 2020. i support the second reading proposal put forward by the european parliament because i believe it is an important means for the eu to take global leadership in broadband speeds, mobility, coverage and network capacity. i also believe that we will achieve exponential growth in mobile data traffic, which will enable the creation of a pan-european telecommunications market benefiting some 500 million consumers.
in writing. − this proposal sets out the policy guidelines and objectives for strategic planning and harmonisation of the use of radio spectrum by 2015. we agree that there is a need for planning and organisation of radio spectrum, and we consider it essential that this be done within the framework of cooperation between member states, preserving it as a public good and free from the commission's guidelines, in particular those relating to putting radio spectrum at the service of the eu 2020 strategies, the digital agenda for europe and the single market act. policies that claim to aim at improving the market, competitiveness and competition for the launch of the so-called digital single market have, in fact, contributed greatly to the worsening of the crisis of capitalism and its negative consequences for the populations. radio spectrum from low to very high frequencies is being contested and filled for multiple purposes, paving the way for the business of future digital services at union level and stimulating effective competition. however, it is essential to preserve and defend the space for public access and to prevent its total commitment to commercial purposes, which is the direction towards which the policies of the european union are inclined.
in writing. - i abstain on this report because i consider it a lost opportunity. it covers positive elements such as the strengthening of the role of producer organisations and inter-branch organisations and contractual aspects, but it could have gone further and taken advantage of the opportunity to achieve another ordering of the milk hierarchies in the eu. the need to go beyond improving the self-regulatory status of the relationship between actors in the area. this sector must be framed above all in terms of an agriculture which we want to see in europe having access to a fair distribution of value in the food chain and which does not become an agriculture of large intensive farms concentrated in a few member states.
in writing. - this report is important because it is primarily intended not to prejudice the effective functioning of cooperatives and for reasons of clarity it should be specified that where a producer, by virtue of belonging to a cooperative, is subject to an obligation, in respect of all or part of that producer's milk production, to deliver raw milk for which conditions have been laid down in the statutes of the cooperative or in the rules and decisions based thereon, those conditions should not be the subject of negotiation through a producer organisation. moreover, in order to maintain effective competition on the market for milk and milk products, this possibility should be subject to appropriate limits expressed as a percentage of the union production and the production of any member state covered by the negotiations. the limit expressed as a percentage of national production should first apply to the volume of raw milk produced in the member state of production or in each of the member states of production. the same limit should also apply to the volume of raw milk supplied to a member state of destination.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on contractual relations in the milk and milk products sector because it contains positive proposals, particularly as regards strengthening the bargaining power of producers. however, these are insufficient for the future sustainability of the sector and i therefore consider it necessary to ensure effective supply management instruments.
in writing. - the deep crisis in the dairy sector makes it urgent to adopt more effective measures to support producers and, i continue to advocate, to think very deeply about the abolition of milk quotas in 2015. as we've always said, this is a mistake and it's not too late to make amends. stabilisation of the milk and milk products market will not be achieved by one-off measures alone, but by medium-term solutions to maintain production in a sustainable way, without neglecting the right of consumers to a fair price. it is essential to give producers more power and to ensure the necessary price stability. i would point out in this connection the particular competitive weakness of the outermost regions, which are heavily concentrated on dairy activity, such as the azores.
in writing. - the cap reform which introduced a quota policy in milk production has not had the desired effect and we have farmers who have invested in buying quotas in short supply. with the end of the quotas announced - to which some member states are opposed - it is imperative to adopt regulatory measures to ensure the normal functioning of the sector and to guarantee producers a fair income so that they do not abandon their activity. while i am aware that this legislation will not solve all the problems of farmers, i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 as regards contractual relations in the milk and milk products sector, because i consider that farmers see their positions strengthened in relation to negotiation with distributors, being able to negotiate directly 33% of national production. in addition, member states may opt for a european contract, with a minimum validity of six months, negotiated individually or by cooperatives.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation does not solve the problems currently facing the sector. thousands of dairy farms continue to close, with the price of milk paid to the producer failing to compensate for the high costs of production. it is an illusion to think that this regulation - whose assumptions are based on the wonderful idea of the peaceful coexistence between the lion and the lamb - will solve the problems created by the decision to eliminate milk quotas, which led to their increase, with a view to the so-called soft landing - which has been anything but soft for thousands and thousands of farmers. what is needed is to reverse the decision to end production quotas in 2015, adapting them to the needs of each country and the relative level of development of its production capacity (allowing the relative evolution of the member states with the largest deficits). the commissioner's argument that the milk crisis of 2009 occurred with the existing quota system is regrettable, which shows its futility. the crisis is actually the result of a situation which, to some extent, already anticipates the end of quotas, given the decision to increase them. so the crisis is the result of the decision to end quotas and not the other way around!
in writing. − exceptional events in the milk and milk products sector were recorded between 2007 and 2009. in a first phase, extreme weather conditions in oceania caused a significant supply shortage, which led to a rapid and significant increase in prices. moreover, although global supply had started to recover and prices to normalise, the ensuing economic and financial crisis had a negative impact on eu milk and milk products producers, exacerbating price volatility. first, the costs of feed and other factors of production, notably energy, have increased significantly, reflecting higher raw material prices. in october 2009, in view of the difficult situation on the milk market, the high level expert group on the dairy sector was set up to discuss medium and long-term measures for the milk and milk products sector, due to the abolition of milk quotas in 2015. in the light of the results of the health examination, the high level group should work on the development of a regulatory framework capable of stabilising the market and producers' incomes and enhancing transparency. this is a sector of great importance to my country, and i therefore vote in favour.
in writing. - as in the agricultural sector in general, the milk and milk products sector has been facing a number of difficulties, with a drop in demand and a sharp fall in prices in recent years. the high level expert group on the dairy sector was therefore set up in october 2009 and brought together professionals in the field with a view to finding solutions to bring the sector back into balance. in this context, one of the points that needs to be corrected most rapidly is the restoration of the balance of trade between producer and distributor. in fact, the profound disparity in economic power between the two sides leads in many cases to the suffocation of milk producers. in this context, the introduction of the possibility of concluding collective agreements, similar to that in labour law, between associations of producers and distributors is to be equated. it is therefore urgent to find solutions to restore the normal functioning of the market, otherwise the current weaknesses will worsen very substantially with the abolition of quotas in 2015. that being the spirit of the resolution, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the production and processing of milk and milk products in the european union varies considerably from one member state to another and within each member state there are large variations between operators and types of operators. the concentration of supply is reduced, resulting in an imbalance between producers and dairies in terms of bargaining power in the supply chain, which can lead to unfair trading practices. the rapporteur therefore put forward proposals on contracts, the bargaining power of producers, inter-branch organisations and transparency to improve the bargaining power of producers.
in writing. - this regulation will not solve the problems created by the decision to eliminate milk quotas which has affected thousands and thousands of farmers. thousands of dairy farms continue to close, with the price of milk paid to the producer failing to compensate for the high costs of production. what is needed is to reverse the decision to end production quotas in 2015, adapting them to the needs of each country and the relative level of development of its production capacity.
in writing. - i approve this report because of the low regard which the european institutions currently have for the european parliament's owninitiative reports, since they are not ordinary legislative procedures. the report stresses that the role of own-initiative reports is strengthened, that they are considered as strategic reports and that the way in which they are dealt with should be improved.
in writing. i voted in favour of this amendment because it will incorporate the following amendment into its rules of procedure: the motions for resolutions contained in the own-initiative reports will be considered by parliament in accordance with the short-setting procedure laid down in rule 139. amendments to these motions for resolutions may be tabled in plenary only if they are tabled by the rapporteur in order to take account of new information or by at least one tenth of the members of parliament. political groups may table alternative motions for resolutions in accordance with rule 157 (4). rules 163 and 167 shall apply to the committee's motion for a resolution and to amendments thereto. rule 167 shall also apply to the single vote on alternative motions for resolutions. this paragraph shall not apply where the subject of the report warrants a priority debate in plenary, where the report is drawn up in accordance with the rights of initiative referred to in articles 41 or 42, or where the report has been authorised as a strategic report.
in writing. - in order to respond to the need to improve the handling of own-initiative reports, especially as regards the plenary stage, a number of recommendations were adopted by the conference of presidents. this initiative aims to introduce the necessary amendments to the ep's rules of procedure to incorporate the decision taken by the conference of presidents that own-initiative reports drawn up on the basis of the annual activity reports and the accompanying reports (annexes 1 and 2 to annex xviii to the rules of procedure) should be considered as strategic reports, in accordance with the criteria set by the conference of presidents. as regards the application of rule 163 (partisan votes) to own-initiative reports, it is provided that this rule does not apply except in the case of reports provided for in the final part of rule 48 (2), i.e. where the report concerns a subject which is to be the subject of a key debate in plenary, where the report has been drawn up in accordance with rule 41 or 42, or where the report has been given a mandate to become a strategic report. it is also clarified that nominative voting requests, article 167, should only be allowed for the final vote, with the same exception as had been provided for in article 163.
in writing. − own-initiative reports are an important way of exercising parliamentary function and have enabled parliament to look in greater detail at matters that would otherwise have escaped its scrutiny. despite these unmistakable qualities, this house must resist the temptation to occupy most of its time with non-legislative reports. this resolution seeks to improve the regimental framework of this figure and its link with the conference of presidents. i hope that the proposed amendments will have the desired effect and that parliament's rules of procedure will become an increasingly important legal instrument to strengthen and inform the action of members and, consequently, less and less a bureaucratic obstacle to this action which is to be free, active and well informed.
in writing. the present report, drawn up by mr stanimir ilchev, concerns the amendment of rule 48 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure as regards so-called own-initiative reports. this proposed amendment follows the conference of presidents on 7 april 2011 where, with a view to improving the treatment of own-initiative reports, it was decided that own-initiative reports based on the annual activity reports and the accompanying reports (annexes 1 and 2 to annex xviii to the rules of procedure - decision no 202) should be treated as strategic reports within the meaning of the last sentence of rule 48 (2) of the rules of procedure.
in writing. these amendments to the rules of procedure, which are being promoted by the majority which dominates parliament - the holy alliance between the right and social democracy - do not reflect a democratic strengthening of the institution. quite the opposite. the amendment to rule 48 (2) for example seeks to limit the possibilities for political groups to intervene in the tabling of amendments, in separate voting requests and in roll-call votes on points included in own-initiative reports, when these are only briefly presented. the aim is to assert parliament's place in the interinstitutional dispute in the eu by making the own-initiative reports appear to be a consensus, which is thus a forged consensus. it is regrettable and reprehensible that they are trying to limit the intervention of the political groups and, in particular, of the group of the unitary left/nordic green left - which unquestionably embodies an alternative project to this eu: that of a social europe, of workers and peoples.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending rule 48 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure, which concerns own-initiative reports, thus clarifying the procedure for voting on commission motions for resolutions and amendments thereto, and defining what should be considered a strategic report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to adapt the rules of procedure of the european parliament to the decision of the conference of presidents to improve the treatment of own-initiative reports, particularly at the plenary stage. the conference of presidents decided that own-initiative reports drawn up on the basis of the annual activity reports and the accompanying reports (listed in annexes 1 and 2 to annex xviii to its rules of procedure) should be treated as strategic reports within the meaning of the last sentence of rule 48 (2) of its rules of procedure and asked the afco committee to ensure that the decision in question was properly followed up. i agree with the rapporteur that the last sentence of rule 48 (2) of the rules of procedure should be adapted to the amendment proposed by the conference of presidents.
in writing. - the conference of presidents adopted a decision on own-initiative reports on 7 april. this decision seeks to introduce into the rules of procedure of the european parliament certain amendments concerning own-initiative reports, specifying that roll-call voting and voting by parts shall apply in such cases.
in writing. - having regard to the decision of the conference of presidents that own-initiative reports drawn up on the basis of the annual activity reports and the accompanying reports (listed in annexes 1 and 2 to annex xviii to its rules of procedure) should be treated as strategic reports within the meaning of the last sentence of rule 48 (2) of its rules of procedure, and having regard to its recommendations that the decision as to whether or not an own-initiative report is strategic within the meaning of the last sentence of rule 48 (2) of its rules of procedure should be taken by the conference of presidents at the authorisation stage, i voted in favour of the proposed amendments to the document.
in writing. - the amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament, which have been put forward by the majority which dominates it, the right-wing and social democrats, have been introduced in succession, but they do not, however, represent a democratic strengthening of the institution. the amendment to rule 48 (2) which limits the possibilities for political groups to intervene in the submission of amendments, in requests for separate votes and in the roll-call vote on points included in own-initiative reports, when these are only briefly presented, proves this. the european parliament is the only institution in the eu that has the power to decide on the future of the eu. it is the most consistent political group in the ep, the gue/ngl, and its action in defence of alternatives to the eu of big capital and the great powers which it still carries, the defence of peace and against the militarisation of the eu that are targeted here.
in writing. − in view of the current unique situation of the euro area, with member states sharing a currency without a common fiscal policy and without a single bond market, and with increased concern about the ongoing tensions in the euro area sovereign bond markets, reflected in spreads of increasing amplitude and enormous volatility, i approve this report, considering that the prospect of stability bonds can boost medium-term stability in the euro area, and that the ratification of an emff treaty and/or eurobonds, as well as the joint management of sovereign bond issues, are essential.
in writing. − given the unique situation of the euro area, the sovereign debt crisis and the high interest rates faced by the weakest economies, there is a consensus on the importance of stability bonds as an element of stabilisation, confidence building, convergence and growth in the euro area. stability bonds would allow sovereign debt risks to be shared, market volatility to be reduced and the euro area to be put back on a path of greater integration, which will be the basis for a revival of economic growth. and there would be other advantages, notably in terms of lowering the cost of debt, affirming the euro as the world's currency of reference, making markets more efficient and reducing speculative attacks. this resolution, which i supported, stresses the need for swift action to resolve the sovereign debt crisis, calling on the european commission to take concrete action.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. it presents considerations on the importance of implementing the stability obligations and some notes on the green paper on stability obligations presented by the european commission. given the unique situation of the euro area, the sovereign debt crisis and the high interest rates faced by the weakest economies, there is a consensus on the importance of stability bonds as an element of stabilisation, confidence building, convergence and growth in the euro area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the introduction of stability bonds will contribute to the efficiency of the bond market and the euro area financial system in general. eurobonds are not a recipe for all evils, but they are an important component of the medium-term solutions. the common bond issue will also require greater budgetary coordination with a view to better economic governance.
in writing. the motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, following the question for an oral answer by mrs sharon bowles and mrs sylvie goulard, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs, concerns the feasibility of introducing stability bonds. the possibility of introducing stability obligations has given rise to several studies, including the commission green paper of 23 november 2011 and the interim report of president van rompuy of 6 december 2011 entitled 'towards a stronger economic union'. the euro area is the issuer of the second largest international currency, and member states should take full advantage of euro issues, as it has the potential to become a global reserve currency. considering that these bonds can contribute to the stability of the euro area and to the efficiency of its financial system, which is currently vulnerable to speculative attacks, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution as it will also contribute to the relaunch of the european economy.
in writing. - the designation now given by the european commission to the (long-standing) so-called 'eurobonds' - stability bonds - denotes their inherent prerequisite: the deepening of economic and budgetary governance, as it has been advocated and put into practice by the eu's governing board. that is to say, with unacceptable limitations on the sovereignty of countries and peoples in areas essential to the determination of their collective duty. the strategic objective here is not economic growth, job creation and the fight against social inequalities, but the affirmation of the euro as the world reserve currency, which is contrary to the interests of the peoples of the peripheral countries. this mechanism does not guarantee the end of speculative attacks, and it also maintains differentiations in the interest rates on financing in each of the countries. what is needed are not measures which years ago, in the context of a discussion of a profound change in the economic policies of the european union, could have served as shock absorbers for speculation. what is needed now is to reverse the course taken and to abolish economic governance, the euro plus pact, the new european treaty.
in writing. − the ongoing tensions in the euro area sovereign bond markets are worrying and are reflected in increasingly wide spreads, high volatility, vulnerability and speculative attacks over the past two years. the euro area, as the issuer of the world's second largest international currency, is partly responsible for the stability of the international monetary system. it is therefore in the long-term strategic interest of the euro area and its member states to reap as much as possible the benefits of issues in euro, a currency with the potential to become a global reserve currency. it should be noted that the us treasury bond market and the euro area sovereign bond market are of comparable size but do not have the same liquidity, diversity and price formation. however, it may be in the interest of the euro area to develop a common, liquid and diversified bond market and that, once a culture of stability is credibly established in the euro area, a stability bond market could offer a viable alternative to the us dollar bond market and establish the euro as a safe-haven currency. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on stability bonds, i.e. the issuance of public debt by eu member states with mutual guarantee of the other states, because i agree that this is part of a genuine budgetary union. as the resolution says, we have had a common currency without a common budgetary policy and without a common bond market. once fiscal integration is consolidated, there will be no reason not to have a mutually guaranteed government debt issue (which will still require a revision of the treaties). what could not be achieved, as some hastily claimed, were eurobonds without the establishment of a budgetary union. no state can be asked to take responsibility for the debt of another if there is no mutual control of their budgets. the recent budgetary pact is an important step forward in the right direction.
in writing. − this resolution is a preliminary response to the commission's green paper and will be followed by a more comprehensive resolution in the form of an own-initiative report. the report is presented as a contribution to the current discussion on stability obligations and their relevance as an important component in the resolution of the crisis in the euro area, and presents considerations on the importance of the implementation of stability obligations. given the unique situation of the euro area, the sovereign debt crisis and the high interest rates faced by the weakest economies, stability obligations are inevitable and must be combined with effective measures to promote growth and increase the competitiveness of the european economy.
in writing. the european commission, following a request to this effect from the european parliament, presented a green paper on the introduction of stability bonds. without prejudice to a more detailed analysis, which will be deferred to a later date, the document presented should be welcomed now, as it can form a relevant basis for work at a later date. if it is true that the euro is a central currency for the international monetary system and that it also has the potential to become a global reserve currency, it is also certain that this can only be the case if the monetary governance of the union is equipped with instruments to ensure the stability of the currency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. i have to say that i am very pleased with the way the commission has handled this matter.
in writing. - over the past few months, the european institutions have been discussing the possible introduction of stability bonds, in order to solve the problems of the various member states which are faced with high interest rates when they wish to finance themselves on international markets. in november 2011, the european commission published the green paper on stability bonds to assess the feasibility of introducing eurobonds between the various euro area countries. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that this is the appropriate way to strengthen economic governance, to promote the efficiency of the bond market and the financial system of the euro area and to ensure greater stability in the international monetary system. however, i believe that it is of paramount importance to strengthen the sustainability of public finances, as only in this way will it be possible to create the best conditions for the introduction of stability obligations. finally, i believe that bonds can contribute to greater medium-term stability in the euro area and that the european commission must now come forward with concrete proposals to solve the current sovereign debt crisis once and for all.
in writing. the euphemistic form in which eurobonds are called - stability bonds - is based on a prerequisite which we reject - the deepening of economic and budgetary governance, which will lead to a marked transfer of sovereignty to the great powers. the strategic objective here is not economic growth, job creation and the fight against social inequalities, but the affirmation of the euro as the world reserve currency, which is contrary to the interests of the peoples of the peripheral countries. this mechanism does not guarantee the end of speculative attacks, and it also maintains differentiations in the interest rates on financing in each of the countries. what is needed are not measures which years ago, in the context of a discussion of a profound change in the economic policies of the european union, could have served as shock absorbers for speculation. what is needed at this moment is to reverse the course taken and to repeal the economic governance, the euro plus pact and the budgetary pact. it will not be in the framework of the deepening of federalism that the process of extortion, colonization and exploitation that is under way in the process of capitalist integration of the european union will be broken.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that the budgetary consolidation approach must be based on social justice so as not to increase the risk of poverty and must take into account the necessary additional efforts made by households to combat unemployment and mitigate the social problems arising from the crisis. the main objective should be to promote growth in the short, medium and long term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that people on the verge of retirement, the longterm unemployed, third country nationals and low-skilled workers are among those most affected by the crisis. i know that the labour market situation is particularly critical for all young people, regardless of their level of education, that they end up accepting precarious employment contracts and unpaid traineeships, and that the difficult situation of young people is partly due to the mismatch between acquired skills and demand in the labour market, so i supported the report in question.
in writing. − the financial crisis, which has subsequently widened into a social and sovereign debt crisis, calls for new measures to support growth, which until recently were not in line with the broad objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the latest statistics show a worsening of unemployment and inequality in the european union. i support this report because, as the rapporteur argues, measures to create jobs through investment incentives and tax reforms must be implemented. to this end, a budgetary break should be included to balance priorities, in particular between the required austerity and the need to increase employment levels. it is also important to strengthen and improve investment in education and training of people. i accept that efforts need to be made to adapt skills and profiles not only to the current situation but also in the medium/long term through regular monitoring and assessment of trends in the needs of enterprises, training establishments, youth organisations in order to combat structural unemployment and to adapt workers to the transition to a smart, sustainable and inclusive economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that, in addition to the establishment of economic and budgetary priorities, it is essential to focus on an annual growth analysis which sets out measures to promote employment and social policies, in line with the stability and growth pact established with the eu 2020 strategy. we need more coherence between fiscal and austerity policies and social and employment policies. if this is not the eu's priority, the eu 2020 strategy may be doomed to failure.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis in europe has forced austerity measures which have led to a significant increase in the number of unemployed in almost all member states, putting at risk the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. the report by marije cornelissen focuses on employment and social aspects in the annual growth survey for 2012. asymmetries within the european union are increasing, economic policies need to be revised and brought into line with social policies. to do this, we must promote a green economy and support small and medium-sized enterprises through smarter legislation. i voted in favour of this report and hope that the good decisions already taken to overcome the crisis, such as promoting economic growth, restoring confidence in the financial markets, reviving the competitiveness of enterprises, tackling the problem of unemployment, especially among young people, and modernising public administration, will be implemented in the shortest possible time, so that we can overcome this crisis quickly.
in writing. − this report does not address any serious criticism of the annual growth survey, the european semester, the eu-imf programmes and the policies that have been implemented in several member states. we cannot therefore expect it to fully address the causes of unemployment, poverty and the social and economic backwardness which is taking place in many countries. it is not the social brushstrokes that the rapporteur is trying to give you that will save this report. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to strike, particularly when it advocates the maintenance of the aforementioned austerity and the prosecution of attacks on workers through the implementation of the so-called national reform programmes, advocating that national and regional parliaments, the social partners, public authorities and civil society be fully involved in the implementation and monitoring of the policy guidelines in the framework of the europe 2020 strategy and the economic governance process. we also have the defence of flexible working, the forced mobility of workers, and the peregrine idea that those who receive social benefits must contribute to the labour market in order to be entitled to those benefits. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − in view of the high unemployment rate, the increase in the average duration of unemployment, working poverty and precariousness, and the fact that despite the urgency of the situation, the progress made by the member states in achieving the europe 2020 objectives is below expectations, i voted in favour of this resolution in the sense that the guidelines on budgetary consolidation should also be based on social justice, without prejudice to efforts to combat unemployment.
in writing. - the current crisis has a particularly dramatic impact on the situation of young people seeking stable employment. youth unemployment is over 20%, reaching levels of over 40% in some member states. between 2008 and 2010, the total number of unemployed young people in the eu increased by one million. the percentage of young people aged 15-24 who are not in employment, education or training has increased by 2 percentage points over the same period. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is right that the annual growth survey for 2012 should make youth employment its priority. in any case, i share the rapporteur's concern about the fight against precarious work among young people, a concern which should be a key component of the policy guidelines for youth employment.
in writing. − the report under review looks at employment trends in the eu and the outlook for 2012. in this context, the report stresses the recessive and unemployment-creating nature of the austerity packages and the generalization of fiscal consolidation policies, which are strongly pro-cyclical. it stressed the need to create room for manoeuvre for the implementation of policies that could reverse the economic cycle, allowing a response to the social crisis and ensuring, in the long term, a truly sustainable fiscal consolidation. for these reasons, i shall vote in favour.
in writing. − the annual growth survey for 2012 comes at a particularly difficult time, with enormous financial pressure on the budgetary structures of the various member states and the need for fiscal consolidation measures, and employment protection and social equity emerge as one of the main political concerns of community citizens. the rapporteur argues that we are faced with vectors which easily conflict between fiscal consolidation and the promotion of employment. it is therefore necessary to bear in mind that, in the medium and long term, policies to promote employability cannot be neglected in order to ensure the social balance of the various member states, without prejudice to the fact that fiscal consolidation is currently a priority. i have voted in favour of this point.
in writing. − following the lisbon strategy, the european commission has defined its new political orientation for the next 10 years, entitled europe 2020, in which one of the 7 pillars is precisely the agenda for new skills and jobs. i agree with this report, as i believe that it is necessary to support the creation of sustainable and lasting jobs through investment and tax reforms, improving the quality of jobs and increasing levels of employability, with particular emphasis on the new generations who already have an average unemployment rate in the european union of 20.4%. in this respect, i believe it is essential that the member states invest more and more in the areas of education and training, the promotion of entrepreneurial skills and the development of lifelong learning programmes for all age groups. i also believe that the european institutions should pay particular attention to the fight against poverty and social exclusion by promoting access to rights, resources and services for citizens. only a consistent, sustained and sustained commitment to new skills and the promotion of employment will ensure that the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy are achieved.
in writing. − nowhere in this report is there any serious criticism of the cfsp, the european semester or the so-called austerity policies implemented in several member states, which are the main cause of the increase in unemployment, poverty and the increase in social and economic backwardness. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the right to health, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to health protection. it thus reveals a huge contradiction. the report also calls for the creation of more flexible working patterns and worker mobility as a way of increasing the employment of women, young people and the elderly, and for those receiving social benefits to have to contribute to the labour market to be entitled to receive these benefits. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. - i support this report, focusing on what the negotiations on it have achieved: the commitment to insist on growth, employment, social cohesion and investment, also calling for better democratic accountability on the part of the european semester, through greater involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments, which should be the subject of codecision in the future.
in writing. − this report broadly supports the commission's annual growth survey for 2012, emphasising solutions to the sovereign and financial debt crisis, measures for medium and long-term economic growth and monitoring of the overall economic picture with a view to improving the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy. it also welcomes the fact that this annual growth survey places a strong emphasis on the need to implement measures that enhance growth, as the lack of implementation in the member states of the eu-level agreed guidelines often prevents the adopted measures from unlocking their full potential in achieving the europe 2020 objectives. parliament regretted that the european parliament's participation in the preparation of the annual growth survey was not formally provided for in the treaty, but recalled that the report should be drawn up by the co-decision procedure and that this should come into force with the next amendment to the treaty. it welcomes, however, the timely publication of this annual growth survey, which allows parliament to express its views in a timely and timely manner. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − this report broadly supports the commission's annual growth survey for 2012, emphasising solutions to the sovereign and financial debt crisis, measures for medium and long-term economic growth and monitoring of the overall economic picture with a view to improving the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy. it also welcomes the fact that this annual growth survey places a strong emphasis on the need to implement measures that enhance growth, as the lack of implementation in the member states of the eu-level agreed guidelines often prevents the adopted measures from unlocking their full potential in achieving the europe 2020 objectives. however, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, the report considers that this review lacks some issues, notably in promoting activities that promote short-term growth and employment.
in writing. − the financial crisis, which has subsequently widened into a social and sovereign debt crisis, calls for new measures to support growth, which until recently were not in line with the broad objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the latest statistics show a worsening of unemployment and inequality in the european union. i support this report because, as the rapporteur argues, measures to promote medium and longterm economic growth must be strengthened and the current economic situation must be closely monitored in order to ensure that growth strategies are adapted in a harmonious way. in order to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy, the efforts of the member states and the eu should be based on pursuing differentiated fiscal consolidation that is growth-friendly and ensures economic recovery and job creation, and addressing unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis. in particular, member states should give priority to growth-enhancing policies such as education, research, innovation, infrastructure and energy, and ensure effective, socially fair and sustainable management of both expenditure and revenue.
in writing. − this own-initiative report broadly supports the commission's annual growth survey for 2012 (the first step of the european semester) and thus acts as a genuine statement of the european parliament's comfort and encouragement to the commission's efforts in this area. the report highlights solutions to resolve the sovereign and financial debt crises (in particular by strengthening the financing of the economy), measures to stimulate economic growth and monitor the overall economic environment, as well as strengthened coordination of economic policies and structural reforms, with the aim of improving productivity and thus the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, in particular with regard to employment. in the procedural field, as the rapporteur points out, i regret that the european parliament does not participate in the elaboration of the geo/gpas, as this is not formally provided for in the treaty, which will have to be reviewed in its next amendment. on a positive note, however, i would point out the timely publication of the csf, which allows parliament to express its views in good time before the annual guidelines are decided by the spring european council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it argues that the eu must strengthen economic governance and reduce deficits while at the same time adopting measures to stimulate growth and job creation. these measures should give priority to overcoming the sovereign debt crisis and promoting an economy with sustainable growth that ensures increased employment.
in writing. - the present report, by jean-paul gauzès, deals with the contribution to the annual growth survey for 2012. at a time when economic growth is almost negative, largely due to the austerity measures adopted by the member states, a report on this subject could not be more timely. with fiscal consolidation in place and public expenditure growth under control, it is urgent to promote sustainable economic growth. to do this, we must take advantage of the instruments that have been adopted, such as the six-pack and the european semester. youth initiatives must be increased, as must a strong focus on education and vocational training. flexibility policies in the labour market and support for small and mediumsized enterprises should also not be neglected in order to promote employment. solidarity and subsidiarity are two principles which the member states must take into account in building a european union which must not operate at two speeds. i voted in favour of this report, which calls on the member states to implement their commitments so as to be able to emerge from the crisis and to promote economic growth and job creation.
in writing. − the annual growth survey (ags) sets out what the commission considers to be the eu's priorities for the next 12 months in terms of economic and fiscal policies, as well as reforms to boost growth and jobs. the presentation by the aac marks the opening of the second european semester of economic governance. in this report we find the tiresome language of the eurocracy, the fraudulent neoliberal theses, the endless parade of attacks on everything that smells of the sovereignty of the peoples, democracy, civilization. the solutions advocated here will deepen the crisis of capitalism, with a general recession in the eu. the report also proposes the implementation of specific joint programmes in areas such as defence, which would represent a deepening of the military dimension of the european union. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − the annual growth survey for 2012, as presented by the commission, provides a good basis for this year's european semester. specifically targeted solutions to the current sovereign and financial debt crises, which are being developed daily by all institutions, must be coupled with a strong focus on measures to strengthen growth in the medium and long term, as well as monitoring the overall economic framework, in order to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and ensure its lasting success. however, i think that the annual growth survey falls short of what is needed to restore confidence among european households and businesses, as well as financial markets, as it ignores the need for urgent action to support short-term activity and employment by investment in the europe 2020 objectives. it is therefore important that we all make an effort to implement measures to combat the crisis in the short term, so that we can become more sustainable in the future.
in writing. − this report broadly supports the commission's annual growth survey for 2012, emphasising solutions to the sovereign and financial debt crisis, measures for medium and long-term economic growth and monitoring of the overall economic picture with a view to improving the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy. among the measures outlined in the report, i would highlight fiscal consolidation which is favourable to growth and which ensures economic recovery, job creation, long-term financing of the real economy and the promotion of sustainable growth by developing competitiveness and investment. all these factors led me to vote in favour.
in writing. − in its communication on the annual growth survey for 2012, the commission sets out the priorities for economic, fiscal and reform policies to promote job creation and sustainable growth in the member states over the next 12 months. this presentation is part of the relaunch of the second european semester. the european parliament's report on this subject merely confirms all the proposals put forward by the commission, which insists on budgetary consolidation, i.e. the reduction of the deficit and debt, as one of the main means of overcoming the crisis and consequently growth. this principle will call into question all other measures proposed for growth, because it will restrict the levels of investment required. for these reasons, i voted against.
in writing. − the annual growth survey for 2012 comes at a particularly difficult time, as financial pressure on the budgetary structures of the various member states may call into question the adoption or continuation of constructive economic growth policies. in a context of deep integration, it is urgent to adopt measures which will allow the economies of the various states to recover in the short term by means of growth. however, alongside these more immediate policy options, medium- and long-term growth must not be disregarded, by strengthening the structures of production and distribution of products, paving the way for a sound development of the common area. that being the understanding expressed in the resolution, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the annual growth survey aims to provide a structured framework for measures to promote growth and employment, and is the basis for defining the european semester of macroeconomic coordination. i agree with the report presented, as it is essential to pursue differentiated fiscal consolidation which is more conducive to sustainable growth, thus ensuring economic recovery and job creation in the european union in the short term. as i said in the plenary, i believe that it is time to move from a phase of austerity to a new phase of economic growth, wealth creation and job creation. in this context, it is important that the european institutions give greater attention to boosting economic activity, in particular by providing effective support for investments made by smes, strengthening research and innovation, encouraging internationalisation and encouraging entrepreneurship. finally, i believe that the member states should focus their priorities on the broad objectives enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy, as this is the only way to strengthen economic, social and territorial cohesion in the european union.
in writing. − the sca sets out what the commission believes should be the eu's priorities for the next 12 months in terms of economic and fiscal policies and reforms to boost growth and jobs. the presentation by the aac marks the opening of the second european semester of economic governance. the european parliament's report on the cfsp is in full accord with the spirit of the commission and its neo-liberal policies, which are in breach of workers' rights and the sovereignty of the member states. the solutions being promoted will not help to tackle the crisis of capitalism or prevent a general recession in the eu, but will only exacerbate its effects. the report also proposes the implementation of specific joint programmes in areas such as defence, which would represent a deepening of the military dimension of the european union. we propose that the existing macroeconomic policies be changed by repealing the stability and growth pact, putting an end to the privatisation and liberalisation processes, giving priority to quality employment with rights, with decent wages and without discrimination against women, and promoting the dignity of those who work.
the european parliament is moved to express its solidarity with the courageous syrian people, who are resisting as resolutely as they can the uncivilized regime of bashar al-assad, which bombs its own people in villages and towns and does not hesitate to torture children. we will not give up on getting, by any means, in the un general assembly, in tunis or elsewhere, unequivocal condemnations of the syrian regime that will pressure assad to end the atrocities against his people, to step down from power and to allow a process of democratic transition to take place in syria, as is the clear aspiration of his people. we will not give up on seeing bashar and his closest supporters brought to justice before the international criminal court for crimes against humanity committed against the syrian people. we will continue to encourage the european union to support the arab league and other regional actors in seeking a un security council to declare a humanitarian truce and to appoint a peace force for syria to open the humanitarian truce, help prevent civil war and pave the way for a democratic transition. this implies the reinforcement of the media, logistical and other humanitarian support that the european union and other regional partners such as turkey are providing to the forces that are organizing the legitimate resistance of the syrian people. the european union must also point the finger at china and russia for the moral shame of standing up to 13 other members of the un security council and thus preventing the security council from exercising its responsibility to protect the besieged people and to give license to continue the massacres under the regime of bashar al-assad. they talk about peace and avoiding civil war. but nothing they do helps end the violence. russia even continues to sell weapons to bashar al-assad. they are thus encouraging the syrian forces and their regional backers, including the more reactionary and extremist wahabi forces and al-qaeda terrorists to take advantage of the syrian conflict to further destabilize the entire region. assad is going to fall, inevitably. it's only a matter of time. the european union must have a strategic orientation for the post-assad period, for its post-assad action, and it must also demand that the syrian opposition unite and then commit itself to national reconciliation and to a process of democratic transition which must include respect for the rights of syrian minorities, including the alawites and christians.
mr president, syria, like iraq, is an ethnic mosaic, like egypt, has a strong army and, like libya, bashar al-assad will stop at nothing, including the slaughter of his own people. europe's strategy in this, the most difficult of the arab spring puzzles, is to make sure that everything that can go wrong does not go wrong. this is our first condition. secondly, we must have a strategy of credibility, responsibility and humanity. of course, credibility: how can we talk here about china and russia when we know that mrs merkel was in china last week and there, in china, what did she say about syria and how did she bring china to our side at the united nations? no, not at all. how can we talk about credibility when european companies are helping the syrian regime with internet censorship tools and continue to receive european subsidies? and how can we talk about humanitarian strategy when - i saw in syria the iraqi and palestinian refugee camps that are the vestiges of our recent mistakes in that part of the world - we have not been able, from the outset, to find a consensus around opening humanitarian corridors to get these refugees out of there and now the new syrian refugees as well. the european union must show credibility, responsibility and action if the syrian puzzle is not to be broken further.
the resolution which is being tabled here in parliament has some very important points, but there is one point which has not been accepted by the political groups which have signed it. the political groups that have signed it have refused to include a paragraph in which we state that we are clearly against any external military intervention and that is why we have no guarantees that what happened in libya will not happen again and that the european union will not play a role similar to that which it played in the case of libya. of course, syria and libya are very different, but we know, precisely because of that difference, that a civil war in syria will represent, or could represent, a civil war in the entire region, just as we know that israel is probing a possible conflict with iran. so what's at stake here is the possibility of using a people's very rightful aspiration for democracy and freedom to redesign a new middle east, the same chimera, by the way, that was used during the invasion of iraq. and i conclude by saying that it is precisely because i stand unequivocally with the syrian people and against repression that i cannot be on the side of war.
i would like to think that this house of european democracy will unanimously condemn the behaviour of president al-assad and the syrian authorities in the slaughter of their own people which we are witnessing every day, powerless to do anything about. because it is important that europe should be able to speak with one voice on the meaning of the values of respect for human life in the face of indiscriminate and ignobly orchestrated slaughter. the whole international community must keep up the pressure on the syrian regime by applying new restrictive measures. the killings have to stop, and this is non-negotiable. insist on the dialogue, of course. a democratic syria needs a transitional period and guarantees for all its minorities, but the application of more restrictive measures to the syrian regime will not be complete unless all countries are pulling in the same direction, and this has clearly and unfortunately not happened. apart from thousands of dead, what changed between the two shamefully rejected resolutions in the un security council? we continue to deplore the position of china and russia, increasingly isolated in relation to their unbelievable support for the syrian regime. everything else remains: a rotten, desperate and cornered regime continues to rule a country and we, the international community, remain powerless to stop the genocide of a people. we are already behind in the tightening up of action by the european union and the international community. we must give more concrete support to the arab league in its interventions and its intentions to send a peacekeeping force to syria. we must unreservedly support the work of the red crescent in its efforts to minimize the suffering of the people. the international criminal court must immediately take steps to punish those responsible for the crimes against humanity that are being committed. and, as a way of putting pressure on the countries that have continued to support al-assad, also ban eu trade with all russian or chinese companies that have business relations with syria. and start from yesterday.
in writing. we wish to express once again our concern and our strongest rejection of the strategy that the major nato powers, in coordination with turkey and the dictatorial regimes of the gulf cooperation council, have been drawing up for intervention in the middle east region. the interference and attempts at internal destabilisation, the incitement of sectarian conflicts and the preparation of new imperialist aggressions against sovereign peoples and states are unacceptable! taking advantage of legitimate concerns about the situation in several countries in the region, a huge campaign of mystification and lies has been mounted, which, through the mainstream media, tries to hide the real reasons for the violence in syria for several months, presenting maneuvers of external interference, infiltration of foreign special forces and secret services, involving the financing, training and arming of armed mercenaries and terrorist groups, as if it were a popular struggle for democracy. at a time when the development of the international situation, marked by the deepening of the crisis of capitalism on many fronts, points to real and great dangers of new wars of aggression against the peoples of the region, which endanger international security, it is more important than ever to affirm the values of peace and international solidarity.
i shall begin with a question which, incidentally, is answered in the joint resolution of this parliament: how many days will our high representative for foreign affairs be at the un human rights council in geneva? a council that comes after a year in which much has changed, in countries such as egypt, tunisia, libya, syria and bahrain, in which the people rose up against the regimes that oppressed them. some of these populations have managed to bring their revolutions to fruition, others have not, and what i think most europeans regret is realizing that the european union was not prepared, at the time this happened, to do what we could not have catalysed but could have framed, to help these populations to, in order, make their transition. but fortunately we have examples, as we mentioned in our resolution, such as burma, which seems to be moving towards greater openness and greater democratization. finally, many things change, but what does not change is the strategy of the european union, which needs to be more effective, consistent, coherent and agile. there is no contradiction between being consistent and being agile. what we cannot continue to do is to propose to the arab countries the same kinds of trade agreements that we proposed before the arab spring and after the arab spring, as we will vote tomorrow on an agricultural agreement with morocco, which is a country that continues not to recognize the self-determination of western sahara. what we cannot continue to do is let european companies do business with dictatorial regimes and they go unpunished here and, by the way, i apologize, the answer to my question: our high representative will not be a single day on the un human rights council. i consider this a disgrace.
the broad and comprehensive conception of human rights embodied in the universal declaration of human rights obliges us to recognize that the european union is not in a position to give lessons to the world in this field. first of all, because of what is happening within its borders today: the right to social security, the right to protection in the event of unemployment, adequate remuneration for those who work, equal pay for equal work, the right to food, clothing, housing, medical care, the right to leisure, the right to free education. all of these, among many others, are rights enshrined in the universal declaration of human rights. the european union has already put these rights at risk in its treaties, by subordinating some of them to the market and free competition, but above all, they are under threat from the policies currently being implemented in various countries. human rights cannot be used as a weapon to attack those who are an obstacle to ambitions for domination, and they are conveniently ignored internally or when it comes to sparing friendly regimes: the united states, israel, the wars of aggression of nato, in short, the examples are too many and unfortunately they are repeated over the years.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, the general guidelines for the next budget of this house are driven by an effort at containment, which i think is generally going in the right direction, but there is always a plus. the services of this house have decided to exclude from the debate and the vote a proposal put forward by the left, which i shall now read: the european parliament must reach an agreement with the council and the commission to freeze meps' salaries at 2012 levels. this proposal, which is moderate, which is reasonable, i would say elementary, has no reason to be excluded from the debate. this measure is not obtained by merely tampering with the statute for members, it can be reached without tampering with the statute for members, but above all it is an arbitrary decision. we cannot continue to prevent members from speaking out on their own pay. this is something that no one outside this parliament understands, and i must say that it is because of these and other reasons that, with such friends, europe sometimes does not need enemies.
first of all, i would like to congratulate and applaud the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the excellent work they are doing. it's convenient to leave some numbers here to help us get our bearings. the european union's budget for the current year is about eur 129 billion in payment commitments, which, as a rule, corresponds to about 1% of the european union's gdp. it should be noted that the budgets of all 27 member states are about 44 times the union budget. another interesting number: between 2000 and 2010, national budgets increased by 62%, compared with 37% for the eu budget, and i would remind you that 12 new member states joined in that period. the budget of the european union is also never in deficit and is an investment budget. the sum of all the administrative and running costs of all the institutions is about 6%, the administrative and running costs of the european parliament only account for about 1% of the budget of the european union. this does not mean that we should not continue to demand rigor, that we should not continue to use the principles of economy and efficiency, quite the contrary, we must continue to follow these principles, the principles of sound financial management, both in the implementation and in the preparation of the budgets. as we have done for the administrative budget of the institutions and the european parliament, we must achieve maximum rigor and maximum savings for this year, but at the same time guarantee the minimum resources necessary for the proper functioning of the institutions and, in the case of the european parliament, the means to achieve legislative excellence. i think we're on the right track.
while it is true that much can be done to contain expenditure by the european institutions, including the european parliament, we cannot but reiterate here our concerns about the effective respect for the principle of multilingualism in this house. the shortcomings in interpretation and translation services are evident, and they put at risk the ability of members to express themselves in their own language in various circumstances. the amendments to this report and to others, for example in the committee on budgets, could only be accepted in english. the equal treatment of members, irrespective of their national origin, is thus called into question. in this scenario, cuts in interpretation services could make the situation worse. moreover, it is unacceptable that these cuts could affect workers who are essential to the running of this house. it is unacceptable that the employment of interpreters and translators is being promoted in a way that jeopardizes their jobs and their rights.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we are talking about central issues concerning data protection and especially in a context where there may be conflict between two different jurisdictions. data protection is indeed one of the sensitive areas which has generated so much controversy and, in my view, should continue to generate so much controversy, because we are talking about what may be the clash between rights and guarantees, the safeguarding of european citizens who are protected by european legislation and then find themselves overtaken when legislation from other countries overrides european legislation. it's sensitive for a number of reasons. it is sensitive because there is a break and there is a doubt about what is a contract that, for all intents and purposes, exists between european citizens and european institutions. when they give their personal data, they give it on the understanding that it will be protected by the european institutions and bodies and will not be distributed for other purposes. and so there is a breach of trust here, and this is a fact that is complicated to manage and, on the other hand, it is also a serious and dangerous situation because the european union ends up transferring personal data to third countries, thus breaking that bond of trust that is generated between european citizens and european institutions and, therefore, if citizens accept that the european institutions can be guardians of their personal data in so many different areas, from health issues to other issues as have been mentioned of companies that request the data and i am talking specifically, for example, in the case of the united states, which systematically request data from the european union, what we are doing when citizens assume that they are giving up and how, to have the european union be the guardian of their data, what is done is a breach of trust. so i want to tell you too, commissioner, that these issues have often been problematic for different reasons, but i will always be on the side of citizens who want to protect their personal data and if there are protests that are meant to be because the european institutions are not complying, i think we should be on the side of the citizens and not the other way around. it is almost a kind of betrayal that is being carried out and that is why this question we are asking you, these questions we are asking you, commissioner, is so that you can make it clear to us once and for all why no community is built on the basis or foundation of the destruction or reduction of the bonds of trust that exist between its citizens and its institutions and, in this sense, commissioner, please answer us to what extent we can ensure that european legislation supersedes the legislation of third countries. because if it is true that european legislation supersedes the legislation of the 27 member states of the european union, and in doing so citizens often give up this area of sovereignty, why can we accept that other countries, such as the united states, then supersede european legislation which supersedes national legislation? this needs to be clarified because it is indeed very sensitive, it is serious and it is a matter we must take into account. and finally, commissioner, i would like to ask you, please, to tell us what the commission is doing to ensure that this does not happen, that it is not recurrent and that the personal data of all citizens and businesses and various sectors that are referenced in these matters are in fact data that people can trust, that are protected by what we protect and by that i mean that i do not even share the view that all the information that is stored should be stored, but that is another debate. in this connection, as it is a serious matter and as it is a perilous question as to what the rights of citizens are, i would like you to give us these clarifications so that we can all be more at ease.
mr president, we believe that in recent years we have witnessed a wave of repression and security, driven by imperialism, mainly with the alleged justification of the so-called fight against terrorism, which is undermining public freedoms and the fundamental rights and guarantees of citizens, and is progressively impoverishing our democracy. we are concerned about facts which are public knowledge, such as the illegal use of personal data by the cia, for example, or the establishment of arrangements between the european union and the united states, such as the swift agreement, which makes criminals and innocents, suspects and unsuspecting persons, all enter a process which does not ensure its effectiveness. there is also the risk that all resistance movements could be targeted using the data under the pretext of fighting terrorism. we can't trade freedom for more security because in the end we lose both. these two values are not incompatible, but on the contrary, a society can only be more secure if it guarantees wide democratic rights and freedoms.
in writing. given that the level of data protection in the eu is much higher and more comprehensive than in the vast majority of third countries, it was important to enshrine the extraterritorial scope of the directive, so as to prevent european companies from being able to transfer personal data to their facilities outside europe, with offshore processing so as to render the application of the strict limits imposed by the directive unenforceable. the directive prohibits the transfer of personal data to any third country which does not have an adequate level of data protection. at present, the number of countries which the commission considers to meet this criterion is very small. it is unacceptable that cases such as swift can occur, where, in the context of internal company transfers, european personal data, because they are on american territory, have to be made available to american authorities, thus cancelling out the rights and guarantees offered by european legislation to citizens and businesses. it is necessary and urgent to adopt the necessary measures to ensure the effective application of european data protection rules and to prevent the law of third countries from taking precedence over community law in protecting the interests of european citizens and eu-based companies.
mr president, immigration is often seen as a threat. however, the benefits to the economies of the various member states of a workforce that is not only necessary but also, in many cases, highly qualified, respond to the development needs of a european union faced with the trend towards an ageing and shrinking population. in times of deep economic and financial crisis, such as the one we are experiencing, austerity policies take away rights from workers and the people, thus also weakening the situation of immigrants, resulting in an increase in immigration and illegal work. we therefore support the recognition of equal rights for national and foreign workers in access to employment, working conditions, the guarantee of economic, social and cultural rights and the extension of the political rights of immigrants, but also the right to family reunification, which must mean that family members have the right not only to go to the member states but also to be integrated into the social, economic and cultural life of the member states. we consider it imperative that all 27 member states sign the international convention for the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families.
in writing. immigration is often seen as a threat by reactionary political sectors. for our part, in addition to defending the solidarity-based integration of immigrants as a humanist principle, we know that the benefits to the economies of the various member states of a labour force which is not only necessary but, in many cases, highly qualified, also responds to the development needs of a european union faced with the trend towards an ageing and shrinking population. in times of deep crisis of capitalism, such as the one we are going through, the so-called austerity policies take away rights from the workers and the people, also weakening the social and employment situation of immigrants, which results in the increase of illegal immigration and work. but we also support the right to family reunification, which must mean that families have the right to be integrated into the social, economic and cultural life of the member states. we consider it imperative that all 27 member states sign the international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families which, if effectively implemented, would provide an important international framework for the protection of the rights of migrant workers.
the commission has already explained the reasons why the committee on international trade, to which we both belong, recommends that parliament give its assent to the conclusion of this pan-euro-mediterranean agreement on preferential rules of origin for free trade. it is not just a question of giving greater consistency and taking another step forward in the construction of this euro-mediterranean free trade area. it is also a question of promoting regional integration on the southern and eastern shores of the mediterranean by promoting south-south trade, that is, trade between our mediterranean partners. in fact, the european union, with its success as an area of economic integration, has always favoured the economic integration of other areas. we should therefore do everything in our power to ensure that others follow our lead and benefit from economic and commercial integration. as mr menendez has already said, we intend not only to recommend the approval of this agreement but also to put a series of questions to the commission which we think are necessary to strengthen our conviction that this agreement will be accepted, and therefore the questions we are asking, which mr menendez and i have co-authored, are the following, and which he has already briefly mentioned: firstly, for this agreement to be a significant support for the democratic transition in the southern and eastern shores of the mediterranean it is necessary that it brings real economic benefits to these countries, but is there any assessment of the real positive impact of this agreement and of these new preferential rules of origin? secondly, the convention does not include any mechanism for resolving disputes. is it because the commission thinks, and i would like to hear from you, that the dispute settlement mechanisms that already exist in free trade agreements with many of these countries are sufficient? the convention also does not include any review mechanism. does the commission think that these rules will be valid for all time, that no periodic review of these rules will be necessary to justify their revision in the future? finally, the very politically sensitive question to which mr menendez has already referred, namely the products originating in the israeli settlements in the occupied palestinian territories. it is clear that we must give absolute assurance that these products cannot benefit from the trade preferences which the union grants to its partners, including the palestinian authority and israel. these products cannot benefit from these advantages and it is the least the union can do to avoid being complicit in the illegal occupation of the palestinian territories. there can be no doubt about that and a strong commitment, a strong commitment from the european commission is essential in this matter.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. − this regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin can make a decisive contribution to the development of economic integration in the euro-mediterranean region, which has been one of the main objectives of european union policy since the barcelona process and which is essential for the arab spring to be fulfilled. we know that the conclusion of this convention has long been desired by our partners in the southern and eastern mediterranean. the countries of the south have so far underutilized the trade opportunities offered by the european union. to avoid bureaucracy, they often put up with it without even taking care to benefit from possible exemptions from customs duties. this convention, which will unify the forest of over 100 bilateral agreements on rules of origin, will make the system more accessible and simpler for companies in our neighbours to the south. it will therefore promote trade from the south towards the european union, but also trade between the southern mediterranean countries, by integrating libya from the outset. but it must be understood that this convention alone, however beneficial it may be, will not be enough to bring about the transformation we want in the european union's trade relations with the southern mediterranean. we can support the development of south-south trade, but we cannot decree it. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the new gatt rules, and that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the new gatt rules, which are not yet in force. the political developments on the ground are important, for example on the border between morocco and algeria, and it is also essential that the political conditionality applicable to products originating in the israeli settlements in palestine or the occupied territory of western sahara, which we cannot allow to benefit from the preferential rules, be strictly observed.
this convention cannot be dissociated from the conception and role assigned to international trade by the european union. it cannot be dissociated from a vision of international trade oriented towards competition and not complementarity. the rigged dogmas of free trade, the tedious and repetitive statements of the thousand wonders that it guarantees to bring us, and that reality insists on contradicting. spring rhetoric to the side. what's at stake here is the same as always, business. it is to expand and consolidate a free and unregulated trade area. it is now the case, as it was before, with the friendly dictatorships with which the association agreements were concluded. the balance is always the same. the multinationals and the big economic groups win, the small producers, the workers, the peoples lose. it's the protectionism of the rich and powerful that always leads to the absence of rules. we also want to make a point here about israel and the unacceptable absence of mechanisms to prevent israel from using trade preferences for products from settlements in the illegally occupied palestinian territories. the commission must take urgent action to change this situation.
in writing. - i support this report because i consider it essential to protect the interests of citizens who put their life savings in banks. the guarantee system and the means of benefiting from it have made progress, but more needs to be done, both at the level of individual member states and at the level of the european union, as it is essential that people have confidence and trust in the credibility of financial institutions, otherwise the removal of depositors could jeopardise the financial stability of these institutions. the formulation of common applicable requirements allows member states to have conditions at a harmonised level that avoids distortion of competition, thereby protecting depositors and contributing to the stability of the financial system.
in writing. − currently, in the event of a credit institution's bankruptcy, deposit guarantee schemes (dgss) in place in the different eu member states compensate depositors up to the agreed coverage level of eur 100 000 per depositor. the repayment period is 30 working days at the most. this system guarantees the confidence of depositors, but if it is not sufficient to protect them credibly and guarantee their repayments, it is the states and taxpayers who bear the bankruptcies of credit institutions. this report, which i supported, proposes a differentiated approach by defining common requirements for all sgds, while maintaining sufficient flexibility as regards the specific aspects of their mode of operation. it also sets out concrete measures on common requirements for a wide protection of depositors and uniform conditions for the stability of dgss within the eu, the flexibility of preventive and stability support measures, realistic repayment terms for depositors, european dgss and the promotion of cooperation at european level. these measures aim to ensure common requirements for sgds that allow for uniform conditions of protection, the same level of stability and the absence of distortion of competition.
in writing. − in the event of a credit institution's bankruptcy, deposit guarantee schemes (dgss) in force in the different eu member states compensate depositors up to the agreed coverage level of eur 100 000 per depositor and the repayment period in the event of compensation is up to 30 working days. i support this system because it will ensure the confidence of depositors, but if it is not sufficient to protect them credibly and guarantee their repayments, it is the states and taxpayers who will bear the bankruptcies of the credit institutions concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the reform of deposit guarantee schemes (dgs) will help to protect depositors more effectively and to contribute to the stability of the financial system itself. by ensuring equal conditions for the level of cover, the repayment periods and the conditions for the use of funds, member states will be able to adapt their sgds to the specificities of the financial markets.
in writing. - i am with the rapporteur, having regard to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. − in 2008, the bankruptcy of lehman brothers, the fourth largest investment bank in the united states, sent a tsunami through financial circles because of fears of defaulting on its obligations to its clients. as the global crisis worsened, other banks failed, and depositors were not always able to recover their savings. this has led to a certain degree of public distrust in financial institutions which needs to be restored. the report under review, by peter simon, deals with the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on deposit guarantee schemes at first reading. i welcome this proposal for a directive aimed at creating a deposit guarantee fund, because the taxpayer cannot be the one to pay for the financial problems of the banks. on the contrary, citizens should have guarantees that in the event of a bank failure, their deposits will not be affected and will be repaid in a timely manner. i voted in favour of this report because the new regulation will be an asset for the european citizen and society through guarantees and harmonization, thus contributing to the construction of a single market for financial services at european union level.
in writing. − this proposal for a directive on deposit-guarantee schemes (dgs) aims to establish common requirements in the different member states concerning the protection of depositors in the event of the bankruptcy of a credit institution. the proposal contains relevant and other aspects which give rise to our concern and serious reservations. the rapporteur proposes to increase the level of protection for depositors by establishing the legal right to a maximum refund of eur 100 000 and a faster refund period. on the one hand, this directive is another step towards the full realisation of the eu's internal market in financial services - a highly sensitive area for a variety of reasons at the moment. the rapporteur's proposal even leaves open the possibility of merging dgss from different member states and voluntarily creating their own cross-border systems. it does not specify which institutions are responsible for financing sgds. the state, i.e. the taxpayers, cannot bear the consequences of the bankruptcy of credit institutions when sgds do not have sufficient funding. this aspect should be ensured in the directive.
in writing. − in the event of a credit institution's failure, deposit guarantee schemes (dgss) currently in force in the different eu member states compensate depositors up to the agreed coverage level. during the financial and economic crisis, the amount of that coverage level was increased, under directive 2009/14/ec of the european parliament and of the council, initially from eur 20 000 to eur 50 000 and finally to eur 100 000 per depositor on 1 january 2011. at the same time, the repayment period in case of compensation was reduced to a maximum of 30 working days. the increased level of coverage enhances depositors' confidence and prevents the so-called deposit run, i.e. the withdrawal of large numbers of depositors. however, a higher level of coverage alone is not sufficient to protect depositors in a credible way. in order to avoid the danger of a run on deposits and a possible destabilisation of financial markets, dgss should also be provided with the necessary financial resources. the combination of measures provided for in this directive aims to enhance depositors' confidence and the stability of the european financial system, contributing to the completion of the single market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on deposit guarantee schemes (dgs) in the various eu member states. the system currently provides for compensation up to the agreed coverage level of eur 100 000 per depositor. the repayment period in the case of compensation shall be no more than 30 working days. this report recognises the heterogeneity of the different banking sectors in the eu and proposes a differentiated approach by defining common requirements for all dgss while maintaining sufficient flexibility in the specific aspects of their mode of operation. the aim is to ensure common requirements for dgss that allow for uniform conditions of protection, the same level of stability and non-distortion of competition, but also the greatest possible flexibility in the design of dgss so that they are adapted to the specificities of the financial markets in each member state. the aim being to ensure effective protection of depositors and the stability of the financial system, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − deposit guarantee schemes should be analysed from a two-fold perspective: the degree to which the rights of depositors are protected and the entities on which the responsibility for such protection lies. the report under review supports a line of action to strengthen the guarantees given to depositors, based on greater accountability of financial institutions, in order to provide the dgss with resources to cope with crises and to avoid that responsibility falling on taxpayers through public involvement. this is the fairest, most responsible and best way for the institutions to conduct their work. for these reasons, i shall vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − the european commission has put forward a proposal on deposit guarantee schemes which aims to provide the appropriate mechanisms to reassure citizens about the protection of their savings, investments or insurance policies, regardless of their location in europe. i support this report because i believe that it is necessary to ensure that deposits up to eur 100 000 are covered efficiently, whether they are made by individuals or by business entities, in any currency. it will also be necessary to reduce the associated red tape, make faster repayments and diversify measures to ensure responsible and long-term funding for the 95% of existing deposits up to the protected amount. i believe that europeans will not only have better protection for their savings, but will also be able to choose the best savings product in any eu country. the proposal will benefit banks, which can offer competitive products across europe without being constrained by such differences. i also believe that it is essential to take measures to avoid future complaints about deposit guarantee schemes and that banking should be regularly prevented and supervised.
in writing. − this directive on deposit-guarantee schemes (dgs) aims to establish common requirements to be complied with by member states concerning the protection of depositors in the event of the failure of a credit institution. the rapporteur's proposal increases the level of protection for depositors in some respects - it establishes the legal right to a maximum refund of eur 100 000 and a faster refund period. however, some aspects of this directive raise concerns. on the one hand, this directive is another step towards the full realisation of the eu's internal market. it leaves open the possibility of merging dgss from different member states and of voluntarily creating their own cross-border systems. it also does not specify which institutions are responsible for financing sgds. the state, i.e. the taxpayers, cannot bear the consequences of the bankruptcy of credit institutions when sgds do not have sufficient funding. this aspect should be ensured in the directive.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in the current situation of high public debt burden and in times of budgetary restraints and consolidation efforts by member states, the european institutions must, like citizens, demonstrate budgetary responsibility and self-restraint.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european institutions, in the context of the current serious economic situation, should freeze their administrative budgets, without however disregarding the legally binding obligations and any subsequent increases. cost reduction also involves strengthening interinstitutional cooperation with a view to sharing good practice and increasing efficiency in the areas of human resources, organisation, technology and energy.
in writing. − taking due account of the union's current financial, economic and social situation, there is a growing need for the institutions to respond with responsibility and restraint to the demands of the very serious situation we are facing and to use rigorous budgetary management processes to achieve savings. the commission has also taken the view that the budgetary procedure should be extended to cover the expenditure of the european parliament and the council. i therefore welcome the recommendation to freeze the administrative budgets of the various institutions. parliament should uphold the principle of legislative excellence, respect the principles of good governance and transparency and strive for a spirit of budgetary responsibility.
in writing. − this report aims at guidelines for the 2013 budgetary procedure as regards the following institutions of the european union: the european parliament, the council, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the european ombudsman, the european data protection supervisor and the european external action service. at this time of economic and financial crisis, it is essential that public institutions adopt principles of sound financial management, both in the implementation and in the preparation of their budgets. the european parliament must be an example of rigour and economy without, however, compromising legislative excellence. we all agree that savings are necessary. i therefore support the proposal to set up a working party to identify, in conjunction with the administrative desk, the items with surpluses and those where more savings can be made. the priority should be to channel funds to policies that help member states emerge from the crisis. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the guidelines adopted, without jeopardising the availability of the resources needed for the proper functioning of the eu institutions, guarantee a budget of great rigour and efficiency for next year.
in writing. - these guidelines cover all sections other than the commission, including the budget of the parliament, the council, the court of justice, the court of auditors, the european economic and social committee, the committee of the regions, the ombudsman, the european data protection supervisor and the european external action service. the guidelines for reducing the expenditure of the european institutions are generally positive. on the other hand, the modernisation of the institutions' policies in the fields of human resources, organisation, technology and buildings would be a legitimate concern if some of them were not imbued with the same demagogic orientations as the so-called austerity measures. as we said during the debate, we are concerned, among other things, about the cuts in interpretation and translation services, which, in addition to calling into question the principle of multilingualism in the european institutions, and in particular in parliament, could be a gateway to attacks on the rights of workers in these services, which we cannot accept.
in writing. − the institutions, in the context of a continuing difficult economic situation, should freeze their administrative budgets, but it is necessary to respect the legally binding obligations and any subsequent increases. the institutions should strengthen interinstitutional cooperation with a view to sharing good practice, seeking savings and thus modernising their policies in the fields of human resources, organisation, technology and buildings. all institutions should therefore seek to make further savings, with a view to maintaining budgetary discipline and freezing their budgets, while taking account of legal obligations and new financial challenges such as the accession of croatia.
in writing. − in voting on the guidelines for the 2013 budget, i voted in favour of a single seat for the european parliament, not only for financial reasons (given the costs of both seats), but also for reasons of efficiency and good conditions for parliamentary work. i also voted in favour of reducing the travel budget (both for committees and interparliamentary delegations) because i think there are too many trips, some of them completely unnecessary, which are sometimes just parliamentary tourism, which does nothing to strengthen the political legitimacy of the ep in public opinion.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report with the guidelines for the 2013 budgetary procedure, in which i underline the call for all institutions to strengthen interinstitutional cooperation with a view to sharing good practice, seeking savings and thus modernising the institutions' policies in the areas of human resources, organisation, technology and buildings. this will certainly contribute to real savings in budgets.
in writing. − in a first approach, the 2013 budget will have to deal with two major developments: on the one hand, it will have to consider the accession of croatia, which will entail increased costs for the european union; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the main concern must therefore be to reduce expenditure from the outset, and to adopt good practices that maximise the resources available. as this is the spirit of the guidelines for the 2013 budgetary procedure, i voted in favour.
in writing. − this document is the first step in the budgetary procedure and includes proposals such as the freezing of parliament's and other institutions' administrative budgets and, in particular, a freezing of budget lines relating to travel without any indexation of members' grants until the end of the parliamentary term. in addition, an independent evaluation of parliament's budget is planned and concrete savings proposals will be put forward by the end of 2012. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − in the context of the current economic and social crisis and the deep difficulties facing the peoples of europe, the document states that national efforts at fiscal consolidation are under way, the european parliament and all the institutions must demonstrate budgetary responsibility and self-restraint. parliament therefore considered it necessary for the institutions to freeze their administrative budgets, while respecting the legally binding obligations and any subsequent increases. we consider that the guidelines for reducing the expenditure of the european institutions are generally positive. however, we fear that the claims that institutional policies in the areas of human resources, organization, technology and buildings must be modernised are based on the same demagogic orientations as the so-called austerity measures which have worsened the living conditions of the people in europe. we believe that these measures should not affect the principle of multilingualism, particularly as regards the jobs of the translation services.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that the objective of maintaining the biomass of the carp stock at a level that allows its sustainable exploitation is essential in order to obtain the maximum yield in the long term. we must not forget that, in accordance with the common fisheries policy, the precautionary principle is important in order to better manage the sustainability not only of this fishery but of all fisheries in general. to this end, it is essential that the commission provides a dialogue with all the institutions with the aim of clarifying their respective roles in the decision-making process and resolving the issue of the future architecture of the multiannual management plans.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the multiannual plan for the western carp stock because i believe that it is necessary to unblock the legislative process in the council with a view to maintaining the biomass of the western carp stock at a level which ensures its sustainable exploitation and the highest long-term yield.
in writing. − sustainability and the renewal of fisheries resources are two central concerns in any fisheries policy, which cannot be ignored unless this activity is eventually brought to an end by the depletion of resources. carp, a commonly consumed fish in my country and in several other parts of the union, is not exempt from this need for control and regular exploitation and, at the same time, from the demands of the markets and consumers. it is up to the european union, through instruments such as the proposed multiannual plan, to strike a fair balance between these two poles and to give the best guidance to the conduct of a fisheries policy which, in addition to renewing fish stocks, does not ignore the stocks particularly involved in this sector. i hope that the present interinstitutional deadlock can be overcome and that all the institutions can play a positive role in strengthening european fishing capacity and protecting fish stocks.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution (doc. a 2-211/87) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (87) 0186 - doc. the planet's resources are not unlimited and their exploitation must take this reality into account. like many other fish species, carp are very important to the european union and we need a sustainable exploitation strategy, as the western carp population is the most important in community waters. multiannual plans based on scientific studies are therefore of great importance for the maintenance of stocks and should therefore be the focus of concern when it comes to the common fisheries policy. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it will help to maintain the biomass of the western stock of carp, which in turn will ensure a high yield for fishermen in the long term through sustainable exploitation.
in writing. − multiannual management plans are an important tool for the sustainable management of fisheries resources. this is what is recognized by this resolution. in the case of the western stock unit of carp (the most commercially important stock in european waters), the multiannual plan aims to maintain the biomass of this unit at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation and the highest long-term yield. this objective is compromised by the institutional blockade that has been preventing the approval and effective implementation of the plan. we are facing a war between parliament and the council, in which parliament wants to assert its co-decision power, considering that the council cannot reserve the power to adapt unilaterally the parameters defined in the proposal for the fixing of total allowable catches, since these are essential components of the proposed long-term plan. the resolution adopted stresses that the existing interinstitutional deadlock must be resolved in the interests of the sustainability of fish stocks and to enable fishermen to plan their activities better. the council also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of experts in the field of the environment.
in writing. − the multiannual plans are the cornerstone of the common fisheries policy and a key tool for its conservation, laying down the general provisions necessary for the pursuit of the objectives of the common fisheries policy, which in turn must be adopted under the ordinary legislative procedure, in accordance with article 43 (2) tfeu. those plans aim to maintain the biomass of the western stock of carp at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation and the highest long-term yield. the control rule for the holding shall be based in equal parts on precautionary opinions and on the most recent total allowable catches, adjusted by a factor reflecting the recent evolution of the abundance of the stock measured through egg production. the rules on farm monitoring are therefore fundamental elements of the multiannual plans and should be decided under the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. - the resolution seeks to resolve the institutional deadlock (european parliament, european commission, council) which has arisen in the meantime over the implementation of the multiannual plan for carp. parliament called on the commission to take steps to promote political dialogue between the three institutions with a view to clarifying their roles in the decision-making process and to settling the question of the future architecture of the multiannual management plans. it also urges the council to present its position on the proposed multiannual plan for the western carp stock in order to allow parliament to start its second reading and make progress on this matter. it should also be stressed that long-term management plans applying to as many fish stocks as possible are essential for their conservation, as stressed by the european commission in its proposal for reform of the common fisheries policy, and it is therefore urgent to ensure their application, in this case to western carp stocks. the resolution deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. − the european union has committed itself, in accordance with the implementation plan adopted at the united nations world summit in 2002, to ensuring the sustainability of available fisheries resources. in this wide-ranging universe, carp stocks deserve particular attention, since they are found mainly in western continental waters. the gravity of the problem, which points not only to environmental concerns but also to the economic repercussions of the measures to be adopted, which may affect many small-scale fishermen, means that the guidelines that can be adopted will have to be drawn up in the context of an ordinary legislative procedure, in a process of political dialogue between the three institutions, that is, with the necessary contribution of the european parliament. i have therefore voted in favour of this reading, which was tabled by the rapporteurs in the motion for a resolution.
in writing. − according to article 2 of council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 of 20 december 2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy, it must be ensured that exploitation of living aquatic resources creates economically, environmentally and socially sustainable conditions. i am voting in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i believe it is important to ensure the sustainable exploitation of carp, to obtain the highest long-term yield and to quickly resolve the existing interinstitutional deadlock in the interests of the sustainability of fish stocks and to enable fishermen to plan their activities better. finally, i agree that farm control rules are fundamental elements of multiannual plans and should be decided under the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. - we are facing a war between parliament and the council, in which parliament wants to assert its co-decision power, considering that the council cannot reserve the power to adapt unilaterally the parameters defined in the proposal for the fixing of total allowable catches, since these are essential components of the proposed long-term plan. the resolution adopted stresses that the existing interinstitutional deadlock must be resolved in the interests of the sustainability of fish stocks and to enable fishermen to plan their activities better. this is a decision that we feel is right.
in writing. − i support this resolution with its general principles, in particular the objective of reforming the cfp to ensure the environmental, social and economic sustainability of watersheds and the sustainability of local fishing communities, although there is still no clear definition of the management of regional watersheds which is the best way to address the sustainability of local economies. i think it is important that in the context of the cfp reform, attention should be paid to the fact that destructive fishing practices are caused by neighbouring member states in regional watersheds of other member states, which makes the problem of regional self-management of watersheds inseparable. i consider even more serious the refusal of the european commission to allow local fishing communities to be allocated adequate protection areas from the coastline for their exclusive exploitation, which is currently destroying the sector in regions heavily dependent on traditional and artisanal fishing, such as the azores.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on the contribution of the cfp to the production of public goods, because the fisheries sector, due to its multifunctional dimension, provides public goods which benefit european citizens in general, a contribution which should be recognised, valued and therefore fully taken into account in the financing of the cfp.
in writing. − fishing is closely linked to the lives of europeans in many ways and contributes to making that life richer, more diverse and healthier. in the food sector, which is the one most immediately perceived by consumers, the existence of this product contributes significantly to the richness and variety of our diet. however, this is only one aspect among many - such as the economic, environmental, cultural, scientific, recreational and tourist - that are affected by this activity and that must be particularly taken into account when defining and implementing a common fisheries policy for the european union. without this transversal and multidisciplinary approach, we risk having an intervention on fisheries that reduces its impact and potential, which, as a citizen of the european country with the largest maritime area, i not only do not want but also consider strategically wrong. water is an important source of resources and fisheries can be an important source of income for european entrepreneurs if this comprehensive and inclusive approach is properly appreciated and applied. a europe with its coasts facing the sea and the rivers would be a europe with its coasts facing its heritage and its future.
in writing. - the proposal for a joint resolution tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, replacing the proposals from the ppe, alde, greens/efa, s&d and ecr groups, deals with the contribution of the common fisheries policy (cfp) to the production of public goods. fisheries, one of the oldest human activities, not only as a matter of survival given its food importance but also because of its weight in the world economy, deserves special treatment by the european union. in fact, several pieces of legislation have been adopted, both by international organisations and by this parliament, with a special emphasis on the marine strategy framework directive (2008/56/ec). i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution for the following reasons: 1. recognises fisheries as a sector that provides quality food; 2. promotes its economic and social component in culture, recreation and tourism, science, energy, environment and education; 3. ensures the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources; 4. strengthens maritime spatial planning policies; 5. promotes the establishment of small fishing communities; and 6. contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy as a driver of european economic growth.
in writing. - we regret that during the negotiations for the drafting of a joint resolution, most of the political groups - right wing, liberal and social democratic - decided to omit some of the key points in the resolution we tabled. the result was a weak and inconsequential resolution, in the face of the crisis in the sector today and the serious threats to it; a resolution tailored to the weak ambitions of these groups for the fisheries sector, for the improvement of the situation of its professionals and the coastal communities most dependent on the sector. that is why we supported the gue/ngl resolution and abstained from voting on this joint resolution. among the points ignored or insufficiently addressed by this resolution are the particular importance of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing in economic, social, environmental and cultural terms; the future cfp should, on its own and in conjunction with other policies, contribute to the maintenance and creation of economic activities and jobs both upstream and downstream of fisheries; the multifunctionality of the fisheries sector should be fully taken into account in the cfp financing plan and any form of renationalisation of cfp costs should be rejected.
in writing. − fisheries is an important sector in the eu, providing european citizens with quality food and bringing economic and social added value to the european union. the reformed cfp should therefore ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and the maintenance of fish stocks at a healthy level so that fishing activities can be carried out in the long term in traditional fishing areas by the communities living there. environmental, economic and social sustainability is also an important objective of the cfp and the cfp should give top priority to the creation of a sustainable fisheries sector in order to ensure the environmental, social and economic benefits of fisheries for present and future generations. fisheries, if managed properly, could make a major contribution to european society in terms of food security, employment and the maintenance of vibrant fishing communities.
in writing. - the common fisheries policy can offer more than a set of economic guidelines for the sector. in fact, fishing is only understood by reference to another reality, with which it is interwoven, the sea. there are therefore cultural, recreational, scientific, energy, environmental and educational dimensions which should not be neglected. when you think of traditional fishing, for example, it is clear that there is more to it than just an economic activity: the european parliament has been a key player in the development of the european union's policy on the environment. the common fisheries policy must therefore adopt a holistic approach, which systematically considers these various factors: a hybrid model, of compromise between economic and environmental sustainability, of coordination between traditional fishing methods and cutting-edge scientific research, between the sea as a place of work and a place of recreation. that being the line of the joint resolution, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the reform of the common fisheries policy must ensure that fisheries are maintained, in their main activities, in their traditional areas and in the framework of a sustainable balance between environmental protection, social development and economic viability. i believe that the commission should act by recognising the multifunctionality of fisheries and the value of their vast and diversified production of public goods and by adopting a holistic approach to the sector, in particular in the context of the reform of the cfp, rejecting reductionist perspectives, which only harm the direct and indirect benefits of the sector.
in writing. - this is a weak and inconsistent resolution in the face of the crisis in the sector today and the serious threats to it. it is a resolution that does not solve the problems of the professionals and the coastal communities most dependent on the sector. it would have been important in this resolution to highlight the particular importance of small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing in economic, social, environmental and cultural terms and to contribute to the maintenance and creation of economic activities and jobs both upstream and downstream of fishing.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution, since it is essential that the european union should be attentive to the most problematic issues in relation to recent political developments in hungary, in particular with regard to the functioning of democracy, fundamental rights, values, freedoms and the principles deriving from european law. the member states which accede to the european union must respect its democratic principles and fundamental freedoms. i add that it is important to learn from hungary's mistakes in order to prevent such issues from happening again in the internal space; if we do not, we will not be building the european union that we all want and aspire to.
in writing. − the new hungarian constitution, which entered into force on 1 january 2012, has raised concerns in several areas, particularly with regard to the independence of the judiciary, the independence of the central bank, the independence of the data protection authority, fair conditions of competition and political alternation and with regard to the stability act, which subjects to income tax a two-thirds majority of the parliament, as well as the cardinal laws that give the right to the current majority to appoint officials for an extraordinarily long period. i voted in favour of the european parliament preparing a report to determine whether hungary is in compliance with the european union's laws and values. in this regard, it will be determined whether there is a clear risk of a serious breach of common european values. i also think it is important to ask the commission to monitor closely the changes in hungarian legislation and its implementation in accordance with the spirit of the european treaties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it shows serious concern about the situation in hungary with regard to the exercise of democracy, the rule of law, the protection of human and social rights and respect for the principles of equality and non-discrimination.
in writing. - today we are examining the first democratic constitution of hungary after the communist dictatorship and the legislation related to it. they deserve respect as the emanation of the will of the representatives of their people. unlike the preamble to the draft constitution for europe, which attempted to erase the christian heritage from common european references, the text of the hungarian constitution takes on this heritage and the civilizational and human values that flow from it. it did so without closing itself off to other values and without seeking to make a tabula rasa of its history. it should be noted that, despite the attacks on questions of customs, tradition and christianity launched by a certain left - in whose midst the heirs and defenders of communism abound - it is those relating to the separation of powers which have been relevant to the european commission. the hungarian government has been receptive to answering all the questions put to it and has been ready to review the legislation adopted whenever this is justified.
in writing. - the political situation in hungary has been discussed several times in this parliament. in july 2011, a motion for a resolution was tabled and discussed but not voted condemning hungary for failing to guarantee compliance with the principles and values defended by the european union. on 18 january, hungarian prime minister viktor orbán was here to explain the government's policy options and his country's basic law, which incorporated the eu charter of fundamental rights in its entirety. the european parliament cannot interfere in the approval of a member state's constitution, which would be considered an interference in the sovereignty of a state (this is something that should be judged by the citizens of that country). the commission is responsible for dialogue with the hungarian government to overcome any possible non-conformity with the eu treaties. although the new hungarian constitution was voted for by a majority of the democratically elected hungarian parliament and replaced the communist constitution of 1949, i believe that the european commission, which is the guardian of the treaties, must ensure that they are strictly observed.
in writing. - we express our concern and disquiet at the undemocratic escalation of the hungarian government and the adoption of measures of a fascinating nature in various areas of social life. at the same time, we also express our full solidarity with the hungarian people and all those in hungary who are fighting for freedom, democracy, justice and social progress. but we cannot accept the interference of the european institutions in the internal affairs of a sovereign state, which others have been defending. nor can we accept that the european commission - the same commission which signs, imposes and applies the imf-eu aggression pacts in portugal, greece and ireland - should be given the role of guardian of freedoms and democracy. the way forward is not a choice between two versions of social regression - the hungarian government's and the eu's. it is clear that the european commission and certain sectors of social democracy are not concerned about the new hungarian labour code, the backsliding on workers' rights that it implies, the attack on social rights, the intervention of the imf, in short, the cruel demands for social backsliding that the so-called austerity measures are imposing.
in writing. − the new hungarian constitution was approved on 18 april 2011 by the hungarian parliament by a large and legitimate majority. this new constitution replaces the communist constitution of 1949, as hungary was the only country in central europe that had not yet adopted a new basic law since the fall of communism. this new constitution incorporated the charter of fundamental rights in full and created a fairer electoral system, which guarantees the representation of minorities in parliament. it is therefore necessary that union law respects the competence of the member states to adopt their constitutions in compliance with the principles and values on which the eu is founded; however, it remains necessary for the hungarian government to work closely with the commission to ensure that the new national legislation complies with union law and, if necessary, to make the necessary amendments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree with the european parliament's support for the european commission's role in ensuring that national legislation is in conformity with the treaties of the european union and with the fundamental european values and, only in this context, i support the commission's assessment of the new hungarian organic laws.
in writing. - following the adoption of the new hungarian constitution in april last year and numerous organic laws of the state, many voices indicated that there was a backsliding in hungarian democracy. the european parliament has voted in favour of the commission's proposal to amend the law on the protection of personal data. in the ec letter to the hungarian government, the commission expressed serious concerns, in particular with regard to the independence of the national central bank, the data protection authority and the judiciary. however, many ngos accuse the hungarian authorities of encroaching on freedom of expression, religion and sexual freedom. on the other hand, the hungarian government has passed several retroactive laws which violate one of the basic principles of european law. as hungary is a state governed by the rule of law and a member of the eu, i think it will be important for the laws that undermine the principles of democracy and freedom to be reviewed together with the ec. we cannot invoke certain principles and values in our foreign policy when we have states at home that do not comply with them.
in writing. the entry into force of the new constitution of hungary has provoked reactions of false indignation. those who were once the government are now the opposition (social-democracy) and those who were once the opposition are now the government (right). both sides are fighting for the hegemony of power, they fear the reaction of the people to the deepening of the crisis, they pretend to be fighting not for the content of policies but for the form. but both have shown themselves willing to submit their sovereignty and institutions to the eu treaties in order to safeguard the interests of the big capital they represent. it is not the hungarian people that the eu, the hungarian government and this (social democratic) opposition are concerned about. they do not even once refer to the new labour code and the backsliding on workers' rights that it entails, or to the intervention of the imf and the cruel demands for social backsliding that the so-called austerity measures are imposing. a great political and ideological distance separates us from the hungarian government and those who support it. we do not encourage interference in the internal affairs of hungary. we do not accept interference campaigns by those who have responsibility for the situation in the country with the aim of forcing changes from outside, changes which only the hungarian people can force.
in writing. − i approve this motion for a resolution, stressing my hope that the elections in march 2012 will be held in accordance with international standards. in my view, the reports that have come in about procedural violations, such as the lack of impartiality of the media, the lack of separation between party and state and the attempts to threaten independent monitoring, are worrying. all reports of corruption, fraud and intimidation must be thoroughly investigated and punished.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it urges the russian government to submit legislative proposals, in line with the osce recommendations, aimed at developing a genuinely democratic political system, so as to allow genuinely free and fair elections to be held as soon as possible.
in writing. - ivan krastev, mark leonard and andrew wilson in what does russia think? are particularly clear on one of the problems affecting europe as it tries to interact with russia: if we want to influence and deal with russia, we have to understand it. but if we want to understand russia, we must take an interest in it. in fact, there seems to be no genuine european interest in russia, or only a reactive and comparative interest in the face of our own standards, which, despite their importance, should not make us forget the geostrategic importance of the largest country in the world. russia is at the crossroads between liberal democracy and state capitalism and has recently shown signs of leaning towards the latter model, as seen in the recent veto on syria in the un security council. reports of free and fair electoral processes raise fears that the upcoming presidential elections may also fall short of international standards. russia would gain if it adopted these western standards of democracy, human rights and the rule of law, and the west would gain if it, in turn, became more interested in russian reality in order to better understand and influence it.
in writing. - the joint motion for a resolution tabled in replacement of the motions by the ppe, alde, greens/efa, s&d and ecr groups, deals with the presidential elections to be held in russia on 4 march and the results of the state duma (russian parliament) elections held on 4 december 2011. the presidential alternations between putin and medvedev in russia have raised some suspicions about the transparency of electoral processes in this country, as well as about respect for the democratic process. on 14 december 2011, this parliament adopted a resolution on the eu-russia summit, calling for the addressing of such problematic issues as energy, terrorism, corruption, respect for human rights and the holding of free elections. we have recently been confronted with the russian veto in the united nations security council when it voted on a motion condemning the syrian government for the massacres of civilians, which have already caused more than five thousand deaths.
in writing. - this resolution, like others which parliament has adopted in the past, does not avoid interference in russia's internal affairs. russia, despite its deep contradictions, is determined not to submit fully to the role which the eu powers, together with the usa, want to impose on it after the defeats of socialism in eastern europe. the european parliament's majority does not accept russia's veto of a set of resolutions proposed by the us and other powers in the un security council, including one aimed at speeding up a political transition in syria. they are thus using this resolution as a revenge, threatening it with intensifying support for the internal opposition and civil society. russia is a huge country with significant natural resources, abundant energy resources on which the eu is dependent and one of the world's greatest military powers. the majority in parliament acts with political, economic and diplomatic calculation, hostilizing it in order to try to subjugate it, a tendency that the crisis of capitalism accentuates with the confrontation between the main world powers, nato and regional powers such as russia.
in writing. − enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the eu and russia are of crucial importance for the stability, security and prosperity of europe; the development of a strategic partnership between the european union and the russian federation can only be based on shared common values. however, concerns remain about the russian federation's progress in respecting and protecting human rights and respecting generally accepted democratic principles, rules and processes. the russian federation is a full member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) and has therefore committed itself to respecting the principles of democracy and human rights. on 12 april 2011, the european court of human rights condemned the lengthy registration processes of political parties in russia, which do not respect the electoral standards set by the council of europe and the osce, and the limitations on the registration of political parties and candidates that restrict political debate and pluralism in russia. we must continue to encourage the russian leadership to adopt more democratic practices towards opposition parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution for condemning the police repression of peaceful demonstrations and agreeing with the call on the russian authorities to fully respect the freedoms of assembly and expression in accordance with the constitution of the russian federation.
in writing. - russia is a major player in the international arena, not only economically or territorially but also historically, and in particular for europe. the results of the evaluation of the last duma elections in december 2011 are therefore deeply concerned, as they reveal several violations of procedural rules essential for the validity of the election results. at the same time, outside the strict electoral period, there is a clear effort by the political power to control, beyond what should be its sphere of competence, the opponents of the regime, by adopting an authoritarian stance that is difficult to reconcile with the requirements of a state governed by the rule of law. against this background, i voted in favour of the joint resolution calling for a restructuring of the russian political and electoral system. only in this way, it seems, will russia be able to assume fully the role which is reserved for it in international reality.
in writing. - numerous violations were detected during the 4 december elections to the duma. the attacks on the electoral process by various ngos and the osce must not be repeated in the next presidential elections on 4 march, as stated by prime minister vladimir putin, who believes that russia needs to be democratized and to fight corruption in all areas of society. i think it is essential that the next elections be closely monitored, from the preparation of the elections to the electoral act itself, by the eu and international institutions, in order to avoid the recurrence of irregularities in the previous elections. however, it is necessary to ensure that election observers are not subject to pressure or blockage by local authorities. the russian people have already demonstrated that they want an open society in which values such as political pluralism, freedom of expression, assembly and the press are guaranteed as fundamental rights of a state governed by the rule of law. i would like to say again that i am looking forward to a democratization of the russian political system, so that it can have a voice and shape its future, giving expression to the capabilities of a country like russia.
in writing. - i shall abstain on this motion for a resolution. i believe that this agreement will be of benefit to the economic development of morocco, an important neighbour in the southern mediterranean which is going through a major process of democratization, and will allow the export of a number of european products with advantages. on the other hand, it is important to safeguard the interests of the regions of the european union, particularly at this time of crisis, which may be more vulnerable to this opening of the market, in particular those regions which have the most difficulty in getting their products out and which have these activities as the main sectors of their economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-morocco agreement on the reciprocal liberalisation of agricultural and fishery products, because it could be an important instrument for the development of the southern mediterranean countries and help to alleviate the widespread poverty and unemployment which are at the root of economic, migration and security problems in the region.
in writing. - in view of what is happening on the southern shore of the mediterranean, it is essential that the european union gives clear signals that it intends to turn words into action and to strengthen its relationship with those countries. after the regrettable rejection by parliament of the protocol between the european union and the kingdom of morocco setting out the fishing opportunities and financial compensation provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the kingdom of morocco, i believe that the time has come not to close the door on the possibility of an understanding with one of the muslim countries which has recently shown the most moderation and reformist capacity. i am not unaware of the reservations that such liberalization raises, particularly among european agricultural and industrial producers. i hope that the practical application of this decision will be monitored in detail and that clauses will be provided to safeguard them in cases of special need. nevertheless, i believe that a significant opening up of these markets could lead to more opportunities for european investment and employment and greater consumer access to products produced in the southern mediterranean that meet the same strict hygiene and safety requirements as those imposed in the eu.
in writing. - cooperation between the european union and the kingdom of morocco dates back many years. since 1 march 2000, an association agreement between the eu and morocco has been in force, which provides for the gradual adoption of measures to liberalize reciprocal trade in agricultural and fishery products. the recent political developments in some countries in the southern mediterranean require a swift and effective response from the eu in terms of cooperation, so as to contribute to the deepening of the democratic process, while strengthening bilateral relations. this new agreement translates into more financial benefits for small moroccan farmers and improves the quality of products by introducing new phytosanitary requirements. although i consider it important to strengthen bilateral relations between the eu and the kingdom of morocco, which demonstrate our confidence in a country that is embarking on a process of democratic reforms, i abstained from voting on the report because i am not sure that small farmers in southern europe, particularly in portugal and spain, will not be harmed by this agreement.
in writing. - i declare that, by the way, i voted in favour in the final vote when i intended to abstain because i had doubts as to the possible impact of this liberalisation on portuguese agriculture and fisheries, despite indications to the contrary resulting from the technical opinions to which i had access (in particular from the committee on international trade) and from the recognition of the importance of the agreement for the political stabilisation of the mediterranean and for relations between this region and the european union.
in writing. - this resolution is more a profession of faith in free trade. it is stressed that the opening up of markets and progressive integration into the eu's internal market can be powerful tools for the development of the southern mediterranean countries and help to alleviate the widespread poverty and unemployment which are at the root of economic, migration and security problems in the region. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this includes within the eu itself, where the opening up and capitalist integration of the markets of economies with a very different degree of development has led to deepening inequalities. moreover, the rhetoric of the arab spring is not lacking here, let alone the repression which the moroccan regime continues to exercise against the sarawi people. forgetting the illegal occupation of the territory of western sahara. forgetting that even other countries, such as the us, which have signed similar trade agreements with morocco, explicitly provide for the exclusion of products originating in western sahara which the eu does not do. it is significant that right-wing meps from portugal, spain and italy (the countries whose farmers will be most affected) voted against this agreement. even though we have also, on other occasions, also the wonders of free trade...
in writing. - i voted against the eu-morocco agreement on the reciprocal liberalisation of agricultural and fishery products for two reasons. firstly, because i cannot accept that western sahara, one of the last territories in the world to be under colonial occupation, is treated as if it were under moroccan administration. secondly, because i believe that the agreement deepens an agricultural model which fails both sides, namely by destroying jobs, lowering the quality of production and subordinating food security.
in writing. - portugal is going through a difficult period, and the success of the fight against the crisis will depend to a large extent on national production and exports. the agreement in question will have an immediate impact, particularly in the southern european countries, including portugal, with competing products produced in the same plants, at the lowest cost, taking into account the price of the factors of production, without forgetting the need to safeguard food safety by the absence of plant protection products prohibited in the european area. that is the reason for the vote against, which does not invalidate the recognition of the importance of this and other agreements to be concluded with the kingdom of morocco, portugal's strategic partner, provided that all reciprocal guarantees are ensured.
in writing. - i voted against the eu-morocco agreement on the reciprocal liberalisation of agricultural and fishery products for two reasons. firstly, because i cannot accept that western sahara, one of the last territories in the world to be under colonial occupation, is treated as if it were under moroccan administration. secondly, because i believe that the agreement deepens an agricultural model which fails both sides, namely by destroying jobs, lowering the quality of production and subordinating food security.
in writing. - the political turbulence affecting the maghreb countries (in particular tunisia, egypt and libya) requires the attention of the community institutions, because of their geographical proximity to continental europe, in order to protect the common space. in the light of the experience of the european communities, economic cooperation, by introducing links of dependence and interrelationship between peoples, is a privileged mechanism for pursuing some of the central aims of the community project, such as the defence of the fundamental rights of individuals, the rule of law and the democratic legitimacy of government. the increase in economic relations between the two areas should, however, lead to a rapprochement of the moroccan development model, based on respect for people and the environment.
in writing. this motion for a resolution on the eu-morocco agreement on liberalization measures for agricultural products and processed agricultural products, fisheries and fishery products, sets out the points which explain my negative position on the conclusion of the agreement. i believe in the democratization reforms that morocco has been implementing, but the recent events that resulted in the arab spring have shown that the eu approach would have to be substantially modified. i also believe that trade liberalisation and the progressive integration of morocco into the eu will serve as instruments for the development of the economies of the southern mediterranean. however, i cannot support an agreement where no environmental, social and economic impact assessment has been carried out, where the same phytosanitary conditions are not required and where numerous cases of fraud in tariff agreements have been reported. on the other hand, there is the dispute over the western sahara region within the un, which should not be included in the un, since it is not moroccan territory. i abstained on this motion for a resolution because i am not against the liberalization of trade in agricultural products, but against this agreement itself.
in writing. − the fisheries sector, including aquaculture, generates an estimated €34.2 billion in annual revenues and supports more than 350 000 jobs in the eu. with the agreement with morocco, which has recently undertaken major democratic reforms, europe is giving concrete support to the development of the euro-mediterranean countries. this agreement represents an open door for the neighbouring countries that participated in the arab spring and the beginning of the development of the economic reforms needed in europe to create safer and fairer trading areas in the mediterranean. with this agreement, the european union will open its market to the mediterranean regions affected by the arab revolutions, which need investment and economic support in the transition to democracy. european farmers will be able to market and export their products to the euro-mediterranean markets and safeguard clauses provide for guarantees in the event of excess products on the markets.
in writing. - as a matter of principle and as an alternate member of the committee on international trade, i am in favour of all agreements aimed at closer approximation between the eu and third countries which commit themselves to approximate to our legislative standards. as president of the european parliament's delegation to morocco and vice-president of the eu-morocco friendship group, i welcome all agreements between the eu and the kingdom of morocco. that said, i would like to make it clear that i reject all forms of unfair competition with european businesses, whether it takes the form of dumping, abuse or illegality, in the light of the agreements signed. therefore, following the doubts raised in the agri committee (regarding the control of timetables and tariff quotas; respect for community legislative standards; geographical indications, problems of competitiveness and the unseasonality of imports from morocco), i decided to ask the commission and the council for clarification on this agreement, by means of a written question sent two weeks ago, in order to clarify whether there is any (disaggregated) economic impact study in the eu on this agreement. how does the commission intend to monitor compliance with community standards, the control of tariff quotas and the timetable? when will we have an agreement on the gis?
in writing. - despite the asymmetry in the liberalization of access to the european and moroccan markets and the difficulties that some producers may encounter in the face of increased competition, i believe that this agreement, on the whole, will be beneficial for european businesses, workers and consumers as it will allow easier access to an expanding market full of opportunities. politically, this will be another sign that the european union is not only proclaiming good intentions but is capable of committing itself effectively to the progress of north africa and of seeking to establish with it a partnership which will allow it not only to project its interests but also its soft power there. i understand the fears of european farmers, fishermen and industrialists, but i believe that the european union, for its own sake, has a duty to seek to strengthen its relationship with morocco and the other arab countries and to build a profitable and lasting trade relationship on which to build a stable and balanced relationship based on respect for the values of human dignity, human rights, democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. the recommendation under consideration concerns a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the kingdom of morocco concerning reciprocal liberalisation measures in the field of agricultural products and fisheries, replacing previous protocols and agreements. this new agreement will liberalise trade in fish, agricultural products, processed agricultural products and fishery products, which account for 45% of eu exports to morocco and 55% of eu imports from morocco. the committee on agriculture and rural development expressed serious reservations about this agreement and even voted against it. i voted against the agreement because i believe that small farmers in the eu could be harmed.
in writing. - the eu-morocco agreement adopted today means the immediate liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fisheries products. there were at least two strong reasons for the rejection of this agreement. on the one hand, it will be harmful to european producers, especially small and mediumsized producers of typically mediterranean crops, particularly in the fruit and vegetable sector, since this agreement will accentuate the pressure already felt to lower production prices and the difficulties felt by many producers in selling their products. portuguese farmers will be particularly targeted. on the other hand, family farming is losing out, facing competition from intensive, export-oriented production models. models that threaten environmental sustainability, the viability of regional and local markets, food sovereignty and that degrade food quality and safety. for these reasons, they also lose consumers and populations. the biggest beneficiaries will be the large european economic groups, the exporting multinationals, which will thus conquer new markets and gain access to cheap labour, as well as the possibility of better circumventing social, labour and environmental standards in force in european countries. finally, we cannot accept that the commission continues to ignore the question of western sahara, illegally occupied by morocco, in total disregard for international law.
in writing. - i voted against the eu-morocco agreement for the reciprocal liberalisation of agricultural and fishery products, not because it does not support the development of trade relations between the eu and morocco, which i consider crucial to encourage reforms in morocco's political and economic governance and thus meet the democratic aspirations of the moroccan people. i voted against, however, because i believe that the terms of this agreement are not in accordance with international law, because they ignore the need to establish a specific regime for trade in agricultural and fishery products produced in western sahara, a territory occupied by the kingdom of morocco since 1975. since parliament rejected the two amendments proposing the establishment of a regime specifically to take account of the rights and interests of the saharawi people within the framework of this agreement, i had no choice but to refuse to be complicit in an agreement which, as it stands, violates international law and the most elementary rights of the people of western sahara to dispose of their own resources.
in writing. - portugal is going through a difficult period, and the success of the fight against the crisis will depend to a large extent on national production and exports. the agreement in question will have an immediate impact, particularly in the southern european countries, including portugal, with competing products produced in the same plants at the lowest cost in terms of the price of the factors of production, without forgetting the need to safeguard food safety by virtue of the absence of plant protection products banned in europe. that is the reason for the vote against, which does not invalidate the recognition of the importance of this and other agreements to be concluded with the kingdom of morocco, portugal's strategic partner, provided that all reciprocal guarantees are ensured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the eu-morocco agreement on the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fishery products because i believe it is a mutually beneficial agreement. the alleged negative impact on european farmers is being grossly underestimated. while not forgetting the benefits the agreement will bring to european exports, it is important to bear in mind that it provides for various safeguard clauses (quotas, prices, etc.) which limit any negative impacts of moroccan imports. i also believe that the question of western sahara has been satisfactorily resolved through clear commitments by the moroccan government and the european commission. finally, the political dimension of enhanced cooperation with morocco must be taken into account as a sign of the union's support for the political and constitutional developments leading to a democratic transition in that country.
in writing. - recognising the importance of good political relations with third countries, in particular with our neighbour the kingdom of morocco, and committed to good commercial relations, i cannot accept another step towards a so-called joint liberalisation which in fact creates a situation of profound inequality of competition between european and moroccan producers. europeans are bound by stringent and burdensome standards of quality and food safety, as well as by agrienvironmental and animal welfare standards, which considerably increase the cost of production, without the certification and labelling provided for protecting them sufficiently or leading the consumer to prefer their products to those produced to lower standards and at lower costs. the liberalization of 55% of morocco's exports to the eu and the increase in concessions in the fruit and vegetable sector would deal a severe blow to these productions in southern europe, particularly in portugal, but also in spain, italy and greece - all member states in difficulty that need to bet on their productive sectors and not, once again, see their agriculture sacrificed to other interests.
in writing. the agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco aims to introduce reciprocal liberalisation measures for agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products. as it is expected that products imported from morocco will be able to enter directly the community market, a transitional period of gradual liberalisation applies to products exported from the eu to morocco. despite the reservations expressed by the rapporteur and the committee on agriculture and rural development, the agreement was approved overall following the positions of the committee on fisheries and the committee on international trade in the light of the current situation in which a cooperative approach between the european union and the north african states is required.
in writing. − the eu-morocco agreement on agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products will bring enormous competitive disadvantages to moroccan farmers. under this agreement, morocco automatically liberalises the agricultural sector, covering some 45% of eu exports, reaching 70% in 10 years. the eu, for its part, liberalises some 55% of the value of exports with the approval of the agreement. although the opening up will be more favourable to morocco in the long term, there are several points which put the eu at a disadvantage. firstly, i would like to stress that we must impose the same plant health measures and take into account that the cost of labour in morocco is substantially lower than in the eu. these two factors alone make agricultural products from the eu too expensive. secondly, there is the question of the western sahara region, which is included in the agreement and which, as a disputed territory in the un, should not be applied. finally, i would like to stress that this agreement will only benefit the large landowners, leaving out 90% of moroccan farmers. i believe that morocco is in the process of genuine democratization. however, i do not agree that agreements should be made at the expense of european agriculture.
in writing. - the eu-morocco agreement adopted today means the immediate liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fisheries products. the greatest losers from this agreement will be european producers, especially small and mediumsized producers of typically mediterranean crops, since this agreement will accentuate the pressure already felt to lower production prices and the difficulties felt by many producers in selling their products. family farming will lose out, having to compete with intensive, export-oriented production models. it should be stressed that the commission continues to ignore the problem of western sahara, illegally occupied by morocco, in total disregard for international law.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution. this resolution reinforces the status of the european union as an entity which respects fundamental rights and democracy. the fact that the assad regime has brutally denied the people the right to freely choose their nation's destiny must be condemned.
in writing. - in addition to the importance of the fact that this house has spoken with one voice and the repeated calls for this resolution, of which i am one of the first signatories, in the face of a despicably orchestrated massacre of a people, i believe that the entire international community must maintain constant and daily pressure on the syrian regime, which must be met by the application of new restrictive measures. although i am fully aware that a democratic syria needs a transitional period and guarantees for all its minorities, i believe that we are already behind schedule in the strengthening of the european union and the international community. and, as i said in the plenary, we must give the arab league more concrete support. we must unreservedly support the work of the red crescent in its efforts to alleviate the suffering of the people. the international criminal court must immediately take steps to punish those responsible for the crimes against humanity that are being committed. and, as a way of putting pressure on the countries that have maintained their support for al-assad, to immediately ban eu trade with all russian or chinese companies that have business relations with syria.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the principle of subsidiarity, which is the basis for the european union's policy on the middle east. in view of the escalation of violence in that country, it is unacceptable that russia, the main arms supplier, should continue to export arms to syria. catherine ashton should step up diplomatic efforts to secure china and russia's support for the important un resolution, so that the violent repression by the syrian government can be brought to an end.
in writing. − on 15 december 2011, i stated that despite the promises made by bashar al-assad at the time regarding a new constitution, free elections and individual and association freedom, the reality shows that, so far, these have been nothing but meaningless statements, which cannot but be regretted. the recent events in the city of homs demonstrate the lengths to which the syrian regime is prepared to go to secure its power and make even more glaring the urgency of an international response to put an end to such atrocities and ensure a consistent transition to democracy and the rule of law. i cannot but regret the blocking of an international action at the united nations security council by russia and china. this inaction, as the top human rights officials in that organization and many other credible institutions keep saying, leads to the maintenance of this unacceptable state of affairs in which entire populations are being sacrificed. the european union must remain firm in its condemnation of the syrian regime and in its search for a political solution that will bring an end to the hostilities and lead to the safety of the population and respect for its rights.
in writing. the political situation in syria is shocking the international community, which is watching helplessly as the syrian people are being slaughtered for more than 11 months, with more than 5 000 people dead. this parliament has not been indifferent and has repeatedly condemned the bloody repression ordered by president bashar al-assad. however, the sanctions adopted by the ep, the arab league and the un security council have not taken effect. the european union is also calling on the syrian authorities to take all necessary measures to ensure that the syrian regime is not subject to any further violence. the syrian opposition needs international support to bring about regime change, democracy and bring those responsible for human rights violations to justice. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, which replaces the proposals from the ecr, s&d, ppe, greens/efa and alde groups, because, in addition to condemning the veto of russia and china in the unsc, it calls for an end to the atrocities against the syrian people and for the creation of a humanitarian corridor to enable aid to be provided to all syrians who are suffering greatly.
in writing. the veiled threat of military aggression against syria is gradually taking on a clearer shape. the consequences of this choice could be dramatic and further destabilise the already unstable middle east region. we are facing the same pattern of operations that led to nato's military aggression in yugoslavia, iraq, afghanistan and libya, with the fomenting of internal divisions, the interference of secret services and special forces, the financing and arming of the opposition, with a campaign of vile media manipulation. none of these interventions have had positive consequences for these peoples. in addition to the thousands of dead and the destruction of important infrastructure, they have opened up political space for the most reactionary and backward forces in these countries. the majority in parliament, with this resolution, is blocking the way to the peaceful solution that was needed. it is in line with the disregard for the sovereignty of the syrian people and refuses to support national dialogue and diplomatic efforts within the un framework to stop the escalation of the internal situation. it is siding with the nato powers and the obscurantist and reactionary monarchies of the region in financing and supplying arms to groups which have attacked civilian populations, public buildings, kidnapped and killed innocent civilians.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution in which i underline the european parliament's support for the european commission's decision of 3 february 2012 to provide humanitarian assistance worth eur 3 million to alleviate the suffering of the people, both in syria and in neighbouring countries.
in writing. - the european parliament has, over the past few months, insistently drawn attention to the situation in syria. at this point, it's estimated that there have been over 5,400 deaths. the city of homs, for its part, has been continuously bombed, fearing that the syrian armed forces are moving towards a final solution of destroying the city. on the international level, despite the arab league's condemnation of the conduct of the syrian government bodies, the un security council, through the veto exercised by russia and china, chose not to take any position on syria. pressure must therefore be maintained on the syrian political establishment to change its political course soon, so that at some point it can change the course of events once and for all. i therefore voted in favour of the joint resolution.
in writing. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a nuclear war. i hope that the violence against the syrian people will end, and i hope that the arab league will also make efforts to that end.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution, stressing the importance of the eu member states maintaining common positions on key issues to be discussed in the un human rights council, including freedom of expression on the internet, children's rights, torture and arbitrary detention in syria, libya, the democratic people's republic of korea, burma/myanmar, iran and the ivory coast. i would stress the importance of the member states agreeing positions in mini-councils on foreign policy, so as to ensure that the european union always has a single point of view in the international sphere. i believe that the credibility of the european union depends on its ability to speak with one voice. beyond this tactical question, it is important to highlight the question of the principles underlying these discussions: human dignity and human rights must always be paramount and should guide the eu's stance in international politics.
in writing. - human rights are part of the common heritage of the west but have long since moved beyond this to assert themselves as tending to be universal and to be invoked at all latitudes. the european union is therefore right to put them at the centre of its external action and, in particular, the european parliament is right to involve itself directly in the most important fora concerning it. i hope that at the 19th session of the un human rights council the union will live up to its history and contribute to affirming the human rights agenda in the global context. i would, however, wish that we could collectively moderate the generous impulse to label any and all rights as human or fundamental, or else we would be stripping those who are actually human of dignity and importance. i believe that a hypertrophy in these categories of rights does not contribute to its affirmation, but rather risks trivializing it.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution tabled under rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure and following a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, catherine ashton, on the position to be taken by the european parliament (ep) at the 19th session of the united nations human rights council (unhrc); respect for human rights is one of the most relevant issues debated in the ep, which is currently reviewing its position on human rights. in all its proposals for agreements or partnerships with third countries, this issue must be required as a sine qua non for the implementation of the proposed support. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, as it reflects the ep's concern on this matter, by pointing out the relevant issues to be addressed at the 19th session of the unhrc, the political situation in some countries of the so-called arab spring and in others where fundamental human rights are not respected. finally, i would like to welcome the presence of a delegation from the ep at the 19th session of the unhrc, which is bearing our concerns.
in writing. − this resolution supports the european union's priorities for the 19th session of the unhrc. the eu's hypocritical human rights agenda is nothing new; it points the finger at countries where the eu has an interest in economic, geostrategic, political or diplomatic dominance, leaving aside friends or human rights violations within its own borders. and there is a lot to be said about these violations in and/or in the eu. they hypocritically speak in favour of the indivisibility and universality of human rights, but they reveal a restrictive conception of them, promoting sordid imf-eu plans that call them into question, imposing an unprecedented social setback, compromising their right to sovereignty and the development of peoples. also notable is the lack of clear references and in some cases any reference to the systematic violation of human rights carried out by the us at the illegal guantanamo base, the killing of thousands of civilians by nato in afghanistan, pakistan and libya, the occupation and violation of the rights of the people of western sahara, or the maintenance of israel's apartheid policy on the palestinian people and the maintenance of the blockade on gaza, among many other examples.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, as i also welcome the growing integration of human rights into the activities of the united nations.
in writing. the 19th session of the united nations human rights council has burma/myanmar, the democratic people's republic of korea, syria, libya and iran as its core issues. as we can see, the protection of human rights is still of the greatest relevance today: on the one hand, old conflicts persist; on the other, new difficulties are emerging - situations which threaten the dignity of the person, a little bit all over the world, on which the european parliament has spoken at various sessions. these internal sessions are intended to promote the fundamental interpretation of the european area on the international political scene, in particular on the protection of human rights: the joint resolution seeks to summarise this by offering the european parliament's main positions on the main issues affecting the protection of the individual today, with a view to the 19th session of the un human rights council. that being the scope of the resolution, i voted in favour.
in writing. − human rights are a fundamental issue in the acquis of the european union, which must govern its external policy in line with the internal and external policies of the member states themselves. the eu's relations with third countries must embody these values through example and influence in the world. in the event of violations, the eu should, together with international organisations and countries, call for their restoration and safeguarding. the 19th session of the un human rights council (unhrc), the specialised body for the debate of these issues, should highlight the safeguarding of the fundamental human rights by their protection and respect throughout the world. i think it is extremely important that the eu continues to provide financial assistance and technical support to this unhrc, alongside the member states' own contributions. there are many cases of human rights violations that we could look at, from sudan to somalia, the countries of the arab spring, and even european countries, where there are serious violations of the rights of expression and sexual freedom. i think, however, that it is our duty to show a strong international community against any kind of attack on human dignity.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to be given the right to take action in the fight against terrorism. this is not new: it is a recurring political position of those who want to point the finger at countries where the eu has an economic, geostrategic, political or diplomatic interest, leaving aside friends or human rights violations. and there is a lot to be said about these violations in and/or in the eu. they hypocritically speak in favour of the indivisibility and universality of human rights, but they have supported the cruel demands of the eu, the imf and the national governments of countries such as portugal or greece on their people, imposing a setback in the right to work and workers' rights, the right to health, education and housing, compromising their right to sovereignty and development. it is also hypocritical to make no clear reference - and in some cases no reference at all - to the systematic violation of human rights by the us at the illegal base in guantanamo bay, cuba, to the killing of thousands of civilians by nato in afghanistan, pakistan and libya, to the occupation and violation of the rights of the people of western sahara, or to the continuation of the blockade of gaza.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution. it is important to avoid negative discrimination against disabled people and, given that around 95% of published works are never converted into accessible formats such as braille, large print or audio recording, we can clearly state that this is a data point that tells us that there is work to be done in europe in this area. i believe that the european commission and the council are taking swift action in this way to support the legally binding wipo treaty on copyright applicable to books and other printed matter for the blind and visually impaired.
in writing. − blind and visually impaired people in the european union have severe restrictions on access to books and other printed products, as 95% of published works are not converted into accessible formats such as braille, large print or audio. at present, no international legal standard provides for an exception to copyright in the cross-border distribution of formats adapted for visually impaired persons. the copyright committee of the world intellectual property organization (wipo) is drafting an international treaty to improve access to books for the blind and other visually impaired. this motion for a resolution calls on the council and the commission to support the above-mentioned wipo treaty, which is intended to be binding. i therefore vote in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the measures it contains will make a decisive contribution to combating discrimination against blind and visually impaired people.
in writing. − it is important to ensure that books and other printed products are accessible to visually impaired and/or dyslexic people, and therefore there is a need for conversion of these into accessible media, such as braille, enlarged characters or audio. in the vast majority of member states, exceptions to the copyright law allow the production of books in accessible formats. unfortunately, the number of books published that are converted is still quite small, about 5% in the richest countries and less than 1% in the poorest countries. moreover, even this small percentage of books is legally prevented from crossing borders and cannot be distributed in other member states. i therefore believe that an international treaty should be adopted within the wipo framework, creating legally binding international rules to create clear rules on copyright applicable to books and other printed products, in order to improve the opportunity for these people to have access to them. i hope that both the council and the commission will reconsider their traditional position on this matter and join parliament in thus reinforcing the fundamental right to prohibit discrimination against people with disabilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on access to books for blind people, because i believe it is essential that the council and the commission support a legally binding international treaty on copyright applicable to books and other printed matter for blind and visually impaired people, with a view to improving access to books for these people.
in writing. - currently, only 5% of books published in the european union are accessible to the blind. to date, there are no international legal standards that allow for a specific copyright derogation for the transnational dissemination of formats adapted to persons with disabilities who cannot access printed products. the committee on copyright of the world intellectual property organization (wipo) is considering the possibility of adopting an international treaty to improve access to books for blind and visually impaired people, an idea which i believe the european union should join.
in writing. - this motion for a resolution was tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure and following a question with a request for an oral answer by mr dan pescod, on behalf of the european blind union (ebu) /royal institute of blind people (rnib), on access for blind people to books and other printed matter, which in the european union is only 5%. the reasons for such a low fee are the lack of international legal standards to facilitate transnational dissemination because of copyright, and the copyright committee of the world intellectual property organization is working on an international treaty to solve this problem. the lack of access to these goods by these citizens means marginalisation and negative discrimination which prevents them from accessing the culture to which they are entitled. i welcome the measures proposed in this resolution - which is why i voted in favour - because i believe they will help to improve the quality of life of blind and visually impaired people, preventing their social marginalisation and facilitating access to cultural heritage, all in compliance with international treaties and in the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - this resolution defends access for blind and visually impaired people to books and other printed products through copyright policy. of course we support it. we believe it is essential to put an end to social injustices and to intensify the specific discrimination to which these people are often subject. we are in favour of ensuring their equal participation in economic, social, cultural and sporting life. but these rights can only be guaranteed if they are enshrined in an integrated way. the policies now being implemented by the european union - and supported by the majority of this parliament - are putting at risk the most basic rights of various sections of the population, including citizens with disabilities. if we want to defend the rights of disabled people, we must of course defend them in all areas of their lives, without forgetting, for example, that the so-called austerity programmes serve as cover for wage cuts, the closure of essential public services for these people, as is happening in portugal, greece and other countries, putting at risk access to basic public services such as health, education, transport, among others.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution to allow blind people access to books and other printed products. indeed, to date there are no international legal rules allowing for a specific copyright derogation in favour of the transnational dissemination of formats adapted to persons with disabilities who are unable to access printed products, which inadmissiblely constitutes a factor of social exclusion and discrimination contrary to the provisions of the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, in particular articles 21 and 30 thereof, and the european charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i consider that the measures it contains contribute to combating discrimination against blind and visually impaired people. the resolution seeks to promote not only the conversion of books and other printed products into accessible formats such as braille, large print or audio, but also to promote their transnational marketing. the european parliament has called on the commission to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances. in a matter of this nature, it is justified to introduce a special scheme to facilitate the making available of these works in accessible formats, in an attempt to alleviate the difficulties of the blind, which could be achieved at the outset by a different regulation of copyright. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution, calling on the council and the commission to support a world intellectual property organisation treaty aimed at introducing a binding copyright instrument for books and other printed matter for the blind and visually impaired.
in writing. - about 95% of published works are not converted into other types of formats (e.g. braille, audio recording), making them unreadable by people with severe visual impairments. to this end, it will be necessary to adopt concrete measures to facilitate access to books or other printed documents for visually impaired persons. i agree with the intention of the european parliament to support the creation of a treaty drawn up by the copyright committee of the world intellectual property organization which applies to books and other printed products intended for blind or visually impaired people. i believe that this is the only way to reduce the barriers faced by blind citizens and to increase their literary and intellectual training.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's security is not compromised. i would stress that this resolution seeks to respond to these demands by building on the partnership for democracy and shared values with the southern mediterranean, by bringing together the various instruments in order to simplify and enhance south-south trade cooperation and to contribute to economic growth and integration among the southern mediterranean states. however, concerns about the implementation of the eu-israel association protocol dealing with products originating in israeli-occupied territories should be noted, and a new commitment is needed.
in writing. - parliament has given its agreement, and i believe it has, to the conclusion of this convention on preferential rules of origin applicable to the pan-euro-mediterranean region. i believe that the european union cannot fail to see its southern neighbours as potential partners and to seek to encourage trade with them. despite the tension experienced by some of the countries concerned, the union should have a long-term view in mind when adopting such legal instruments and should aim at the effective establishment of faster and more reliable means of ensuring an increase in trade.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin. the european union has always sought to promote trade integration between the countries of the southern mediterranean, as international trade can promote economic growth and poverty reduction. after the so-called arab spring, this integration is even more important and an essential factor in the consolidation of the emerging democracies in these countries. it will also allow the unification of a series of about 100 trade agreements and facilitate trade between the south and the north. imports from israeli settlements on palestinian land, which cannot benefit from preferential rules, will also be prevented. i voted in favour of this proposal because, as the commissioner has said, this convention is not only the first response to the arab spring but will also allow the pan-mediterranean region to be integrated into eu trade.
in writing. the aim of this convention is to simplify the provisions relating to the determination of the country of origin of a product. if approved, it will replace more than 100 bilateral protocols. it is intended to promote the creation and consolidation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. although the rapporteur argues that this convention will serve as an incentive for south-south trade, lead to economic growth and poverty reduction, as well as to better regional integration of the economies of the region, we know well how different the reality is. small and medium-sized producers will suffer from trade liberalisation because they are unable to compete with intensive production models. the large economic groups will be favoured, as they will gain access to new markets and cheap labour. the most controversial issue is the legal uncertainty about assets originating from settlements in occupied territory. there is a possibility that these goods may enter the eu market as israeli products. our group has therefore tabled an amendment calling for a sustainable and satisfactory solution, which explicitly excludes the possibility of products originating in the illegal israeli settlements in the occupied territories entering the eu market before the conclusion of the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin can be envisaged.
in writing. the aim of the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin is to create a euro-mediterranean free trade area. the adoption of this convention also aims to make the pan-euro-mediterranean system of preferential origin cumulation extended to the western balkan countries, facilitating eventual expansion to new members. this new legal instrument will help to stimulate economic growth, foster economic diversification and poverty reduction and enable the democratisation of the region, as well as to promote social, commercial and economic integration between the countries of the southern mediterranean. it is essential that each signatory exporting country applies uniformly and correctly the provisions on administrative cooperation and the issuing of certificates of origin and that each importing country has sufficient technical, budgetary and information resources to carry out effective customs controls, so as to avoid any preferential deviation. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and stress the need for the european commission to draw up an impact assessment after three years to assess, inter alia, the benefits of adopting this convention and the impact of cumulation caused by this document on business practices.
in writing. − the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin brings together in a single document the rules of origin for goods under the treaties concluded between the european union, the countries participating in the barcelona process, the efta states, the faroe islands and the states participating in the stabilisation and association process. this document replaces the rules which have hitherto been based mainly on bilateral protocols (more than 100). the convention, while providing an incentive for trade between these states and reducing the difficulties faced by the international trading system, is also likely to run into a number of problems of international law because of its broad subjective scope. the european parliament has already expressed its views on the situation in the middle east. the resolution seeks to set out a series of lines of action in this matter, which must be reflected upon, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the approval of this convention with the euro-mediterranean region will bring a set of advantages to the countries of the southern mediterranean, providing for their regional integration, towards the creation of a genuine free trade area. at the same time, this convention will replace some 100 bilateral agreements on preferential rules of origin, making it easier for companies to work and to identify abuse and evasion. one of the points i consider to be fundamental in this motion for a resolution is the need to establish clear criteria for preferential rules of origin so that none of the products originating in the illegally occupied palestinian territories benefit from this rule. i agree with the commission's proposal to draw up a list of the settlements, to be sent to all the customs authorities in the member states, so that each one can take the necessary measures, ensuring that none of the products coming from the settlements has cumulative preferential measures. we must not close the door on the countries of the southern mediterranean; we must export our example of economic integration, showing that the union will bring benefits to all partners.
in writing. the creation of the convention is intended to promote the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. with this convention, small and medium-sized producers will suffer from trade liberalisation because they are unable to compete with intensive production models, thus favouring large economic groups that conquer new markets and access cheap labour.
in writing. - the adoption of a convention such as the convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin opens the way to increased trade between the two shores of this ancient inland sea of classical civilization and the cradle of what we now know as europe. the fact that the applicable rules of origin have been brought together in a single instrument contributes to their intelligibility and to their quicker use, which will benefit not only those directly involved in trade but also consumers themselves. i welcome this step towards greater euro-mediterranean integration and hope that in future it will include initiatives of a social and cultural nature, in addition to the very relevant and necessary initiatives in the economic field.
in writing. the recommendation under consideration, drawn up by emílio menéndez del valle, concerns the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin. this is a convention which will not only facilitate pan-euro-mediterranean trade rules but also catalyse the creation of a common market between the member states of the european union and the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean. the eu has always sought to promote trade integration of the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean, as international trade can promote economic growth and poverty reduction. after the so-called arab spring, this integration is even more important and an essential factor in the consolidation of the emerging democracies in these countries. it will also allow the unification of a series of about 100 trade agreements and facilitate trade between the south and the north. imports from israeli settlements illegally occupying palestinian land, which will not be able to benefit from preferential rules, will also be prevented. i voted in favour of this proposal because, as the commissioner has said, this convention is not only the first response to the arab spring but will also enable the pan-mediterranean region to be integrated into eu trade.
in writing. the report approves the conclusion of the convention aimed at promoting the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. this trade liberalisation will harm small and medium-sized producers who will suffer from trade liberalisation because they are unable to compete with intensive production models, thus favouring large economic groups who conquer new markets and access cheap labour, as well as the possibility of better circumventing social, labour and environmental standards in force in european countries. the most controversial issue in this convention is the legal uncertainty over property originating in israeli settlements in the occupied palestinian territories. the commission does not deny the possibility that these goods may enter the eu market as israeli products which is unacceptable. for these reasons, we voted against this report.
in writing. the objective of the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin is to create a euro-mediterranean free trade area. the adoption of this convention also aims to make the pan-euro-mediterranean system of preferential origin cumulation extended to the western balkan countries, facilitating eventual expansion to new members. this new legal instrument will help to stimulate economic growth, foster economic diversification, reduce poverty and enable the democratisation of the region, as well as to promote social, commercial and economic integration between the countries of the southern mediterranean. i voted in favour, aware that for effective operation it is essential that each signatory exporting country applies uniformly and correctly the provisions on administrative cooperation and the issuing of certificates of origin and that each importing country has sufficient technical, budgetary and information resources to carry out effective customs controls to avoid any preferential deviation.
in writing. − the association agreements between the eu and its mediterranean partners were the first steps towards this convention, which promotes the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. the aim of this convention is to take advantage of these agreements by adopting this new, simpler and more effective legal instrument, which can serve as a possible incentive to stimulate south-south trade and contribute to economic growth, economic diversification, poverty reduction and democratisation in the region, as well as to promote social, commercial and economic integration between the countries of the southern mediterranean.
in writing. − the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin brings together in a single document the rules of origin for goods under the treaties concluded between the european union, the countries participating in the barcelona process, the efta states, the faroe islands and the states participating in the stabilisation and association process. this document replaces the rules which have hitherto been based mainly on bilateral protocols (more than 100). in so far as this convention can be translated into an incentive to trade between these states by lessening the difficulties posed to the international trading system, i voted in favour of its adoption.
in writing. − the new regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin promotes the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area and brings together all the rules of origin of goods traded under the relevant trade agreements concluded between the various parties. this important step must be accompanied and consolidated by other ambitious plans to improve and promote trade in the region, starting as soon as possible with the updating of pan-euro-mediterranean rules of origin, in order to take full advantage of the more favourable political and economic environment in our southern neighbours.
in writing. the report approves the conclusion of the convention, which is intended to promote the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. this trade liberalisation will harm small and medium-sized producers, who will suffer from trade liberalisation as they are unable to compete with intensive production models. this convention favours the large economic groups, which in this way conquer new markets and gain access to cheap labour, and are able to circumvent social, labour and environmental standards in force in european countries. we cannot accept this situation, which will mean the end of small and mediumsized production.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, which is intended to take forward one of the european union's most emblematic programmes worldwide, namely gmes. i think that the lack of financial provisioning could jeopardise a significant development in the technological age we want to lead, and it is regrettable that the weak proposals for intergovernmental funding that have been put forward only deteriorate the quality of the programme. earth observation technology should be adequately funded and should be linked to the network of european regions using space technologies, which could promote economic, technological and territorial cohesion, and open up new opportunities for innovation-based development, as called for in the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution because it gives due weight to the renewal and extension of the term of the gmes given its increasingly important role in the area of the environment. gmes has been implemented to observe the planet earth, i.e. to monitor developments in climate change and forest degradation, greenhouse gas measurement, environmental sustainability, civil protection and security, and economic opportunities that may arise from research and development and innovation. i admit to being concerned about intergovernmental funding for gmes beyond 2013, as advocated by the commission. this not only raises doubts about the real interest of the eu in the programme, but it could also have a possible regression towards a programme that would lack a greater european dimension and include deficiencies in its transparency and full, open and equal access for all. consequently, i agree that it is necessary to urge the commission to come forward with a legislative proposal addressing all the problems mentioned above, namely to announce the management, the funding supported by the multiannual financial framework and a roadmap for the operation of the gmes programme, thus ensuring a safe and proper implementation and full operationality from 2014.
in writing. - as the resolution points out, uncertainty about the future of the gmes programme and its funding is detrimental to the development and commercialisation of gmes services and applications, which have the potential to generate economic growth and jobs in europe. i therefore support the recommendation that a proposal be made for the management, financing and operation of the gmes programme which ensures the objective of full operation from 2014.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) follows a question with request for an oral answer by mr norbert glante, on behalf of the committee on industry, research and energy, on the future of the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme, one of the european union's most emblematic space initiatives. although it is an instrument that, in addition to enabling the observation of planet earth, is also essential for combating climate change, civil protection and security, crisis management and sustainable economic development, the current budgetary constraints have led the european commission to withdraw its funding from the multiannual financial framework from 2013 and to place it in an intergovernmental financing plan. as this new financing system does not guarantee the full continuity of the programme, rendering it unfeasible or drastically reducing its operability, i voted in favour of this proposal for the commission to present a legislative proposal to ensure long-term financing, in particular under the mff, so that gmes can fully continue and, from 2014, fulfil the functions for which it was created.
in writing. - gmes is the name given to the global monitoring for environment and safety programme. this joint project has applications and potentials of undisputed public interest. however, it also contains aspects which give rise to reservations. several authors and researchers have reported that under the guise of alleged civil protection and security, mobility and crisis management, emergency management and humanitarian crisis response, gmes has been serving possible military purposes/uses. that has been the reason for our abstention, which we repeat once again. in addition, the political and strategic objectives in the field of security are clearly stated, particularly as regards border control, maritime surveillance and support for the union's external action, as referred to in its regulation, which we are also unable to follow. these concerns are all the more pressing the more the european union is deepening its security and military dimension. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and it is not surprising that the commission has taken a number of measures to combat fraud.
in writing. the gmes initiative, earth observation, is a project of considerable importance for the future of the european union. this is a union infrastructure which makes it possible to manage the environment better and to increase the safety of citizens. this programme can serve as an example of the will to create a genuine european industrial strategy in the space industry and will create more benefits for society. it will lead to more jobs, more security and environmental protection. it will open up a significant market niche for smes. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme is one of the european union's flagship space initiatives and this resolution, which i voted in favour of, stresses that the uncertainty about the future of the gmes programme and its funding is highly detrimental to the development and commercialisation of gmes services and applications, which are expected to generate economic growth and well-being for european citizens.
in writing. − the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme is based on the observation of the planet earth, seeking to collect data to improve matters such as climate change instruments, sustainable development or crisis management. although this is a programme which requires some budgetary effort, it is certain that the lack of adequate funding may lead to an increase in costs in the long term, if not to the sacrifice of part of the investment already made. gmes should therefore not be financed outside the multiannual financial framework and should remain a project with a european dimension. i therefore support the position of the committee on industry, research and energy and have voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. − the gmes programme, alongside galileo and egnos, is one of the eu's flagship initiatives with a crucial role to play in space monitoring in all areas of society, from transport to agriculture, from combating climate change to preventing natural crises, and from developing an entire economic activity. the importance of the services provided by this programme is enormous in economic, social and technological terms. it is therefore regrettable that the commission has not presented a strategic plan including financing and next steps, so as not to let a project of this magnitude fall through the cracks. this motion for a resolution, which i support, calls for an institutional framework for gmes post-2013 to be set up within the eu. the proposal for intergovernmental financing may jeopardise the development and implementation of such financing. i therefore consider it appropriate that gmes be included in the multiannual financial framework, as it is necessary to show that this programme and its services have commercial viability.
author. - in egypt, the dominant power, which is in the hands of the army, is still trying to control the power it still has and has already established the commitments of the future through a curious choreography with the new ascendant power which is that of the muslim brotherhood. both use the fear of chaos, vandalism and salafist fundamentalism to establish themselves as our main interlocutors and to make the situation in egypt their situation and thus present themselves as guarantors of order. let us not forget, too, that the army is now a major beneficiary of order, as it was in mubarak's time. the military controls much of egypt's economy and has used the transition to control even more because it has gotten rid of some competitors even within mubarak's own clique. the emergency law has not been completely lifted. accusations of vandalism are cynically used to arrest bloggers, young activists from civil society movements or small left-wing groups. well, we know that no transition is instantaneous. but i must say that the european debate on the egyptian transition is depressing. it is established between those who think that nothing needs to be done anymore because the arab spring has already happened and now the problem is the arabs' problem, not ours, and those who think that nothing needs to be done anymore because now the arab winter has arrived and we have no way to put pressure on egypt. we have many ways to put pressure on egypt, obviously. we must tell the army and the muslim brotherhood that they must establish principles of order and law, but for everyone inside egypt. but we must do something else, and i will end with this, mr president, if europe is really concerned about the politically liberal sectors, christians, minorities and young people, it must open its mind and its doors to the other side of the mediterranean much more than it has done so far.
on behalf of the s&d group. one year after the revolution that triggered the arab spring and the fall of mubarak, the egyptian people continue to expect democracy, the rule of law and social justice. the military regime has repressed the driving forces of the revolution and local and foreign organisations that have been working for the holding of free, transparent and credible elections and the creation of a pluralist and democratic state that respects human rights, including the rights of minorities in egypt. the police and judicial harassment of egyptian and foreign civil society, which has resulted in the forced closure of offices and the interrogation and threats to staff, is absolutely unacceptable. the european union must support the secular and democratic forces in egypt by pressing the regime to abolish the mubarak-era law on the registration of associations. in the light of recent statements by the egyptian minister for international cooperation, it is urgent that the european union at least closely monitor or even, if necessary, suspend aid programmes which the ministry is responsible for implementing in order to prevent european funds from being spent on the repression of civil society in egypt. more for more must also be translated into less for less in countries where the democratic aspirations of the people are being betrayed, as unfortunately seems to be the case in egypt.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. today we pay heartfelt tribute to the many thousands of victims of fukushima. to honour the victims is to tell them that we have learned our lesson: we must learn to cope with natural disasters, but with nuclear disasters, we have an obligation to prevent them. but, unfortunately, that does not seem to be the truth. a year after fukushima, new nuclear power plants are still being built. a year after fukushima, new nuclear power plants are still being planned. japan has, unfortunately, the memory of tragedies that endure - hiroshima, nagasaki - and we europeans also have the memory of a tragedy that endures: chernobyl. fukushima forces us to reopen a debate that should never have been closed: the debate on nuclear energy. a year ago, nuclear power was unquestionable to the japanese; today, two-thirds of the japanese don't want it. they know that it costs lives, they know that this cost is priceless, on the contrary, it is a cost that increases from generation to generation. the stubborn pro-nuclear policy is the policy of arrogance. here in europe too, we have a majority of public opinion against nuclear power and yet nothing seems to be changing. there are 320,000 refugees in japan today, of which 100,000 will never be able to return home. what was once familiar is now dangerous, what was once comfort is now ruin. it is the ruin of a building or a house with radioactive vegetation, it is the ruin of contaminated soil or water. and fukushima cannot be visited in the way that other ruins can be visited, like, for example, a mayan ruin or a roman ruin, but, nevertheless, just like these, fukushima also portrays a civilization and the ruin of fukushima portrays our civilization. the one who chose to include a deadly technology in her development model. an earthquake and a tsunami have no culprits, but a nuclear disaster has some. in japan, as in europe, many citizens have decided to create nuclear-farewell movements. they know better than anyone that safe nuclear energy is something that doesn't exist, they know better than anyone that there are no stress tests that can simulate what happened in fukushima and that's why we know that energy policies are national but in the sky, mr president, there are no borders.
madam president, in our view the pietikäinen report calls, first of all, for the introduction of quota systems to promote parity in these areas in order to solve the problem of the under-representation of women in decision-making positions. in our view, the question is wrongly posed and is intended to solve the problem of women's lack of political participation in an illusory and unreal way. women's political participation is not limited to high-level positions, but extends to various levels of women's life: in their associative, trade union, cultural and everyday life. women have greater difficulties in participating in these fields because of the difficulties in accessing education and culture, but also because of the economic difficulties which are a direct result of the wage inequalities to which they are subject. on the other hand, precarious employment means that they have little time for social, political and cultural participation. the lack of public childcare services is another factor contributing to the overburdening of women's work. it is these structural inequalities that must be combated and not attempts to establish artificial equality while keeping the real problems of most women untouched. in our view, the sophia in 't veld report points to some of the main reasons for discrimination between men and women which are directly linked to their economic and employment status. unfortunately, if the austerity measures advocated by the european institutions, and in particular by the majority of this parliament, are continued, they will lead to huge setbacks in the level of equality between men and women, to an even greater weakening of labour relations, with the weakening of the principle of collective bargaining, to higher unemployment rates, to greater precariousness at work, which already affects women in particular, and to a reduction in the public care network, which would be essential to alleviate the workload of women. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. madam president, i would like to ask mrs andrea češková whether she thinks it is fair that a family should be financially penalized when they decide to have a child, that is, that they should not receive full salary for this reason, because they are on maternity leave, and whether she does not think that we need policies to stimulate births in view of the democratic deficit we have in europe.
mr president, the agreement signed between the imf and the ecb, the european union and the portuguese troika is revealed every day for what it really is: a pact of aggression against the portuguese people and workers. we are living in a context of continuing economic recession in portugal, which has led to the loss of more than 157 000 jobs and the disappearance of 40 000 companies in the second quarter of 2011 alone. unemployment has reached a broadly defined level of 20.3%, a quarter of the portuguese population lives below the poverty line, and the imbalances in the distribution of income are widening. under the pretext of the crisis, the government is trying to take away workers' rights, throwing them into precariousness and unemployment. using the pretext of the crisis and at the behest of the european institutions, it is privatizing sectors such as electricity, alienating the country's heritage and collective wealth, cutting funding for the national health service and increasing fees for users, a measure that could be shamefully associated with the peak in the mortality rate in portugal. and in the face of this social disaster, the european institutions, the government and the socialist party are still clamoring for the same measures. portugal needs a new direction that includes debt renegotiation, state support for productive activities, the recovery of strategic sectors of the economy for the public sphere and a truly redistributive tax reform.
mr president, i want to say that portugal is experiencing a terrible drought. at the moment, 30% of the portuguese territory is in a situation of extreme drought, 70% in a situation of severe drought. the consequences for farmers in my country are tremendous: shortages of animal feed, rising prices of hay and straw, rising costs of water and energy, falling production of cereals, falling production of vegetables and many other products. europe, mr president, is cohesion and solidarity, and it would be incomprehensible if, in the face of such a scenario, europe did not help the farmers of my country. i would like to make a plea for this to happen, for the european institutions to be aware of this inevitable consequence of the effects of global warming, which are affecting the countries of southern europe in the first place, one of which is portugal, and for this to be dealt with in the new cap framework and specific financial mechanisms.
cooperatives reflect the discrimination that exists in society, since their management is predominantly male. the eu should take a gender perspective into account when monitoring the proper application of the directive on the status of these companies. i believe that the european commission should present a study with up-to-date, comparable and gender-disaggregated data to provide a better understanding of the participation rate of women in cooperatives in the eu. this model of business organisation could play an important role in the current period of economic and social crisis.
this own-initiative report comes at the right time. young people are experiencing extraordinarily difficult times because of high unemployment. as such, whatever the sectoral area that focuses on youth, it will be important for us to understand how it can be of service to combating the crisis. in this case, it is important to understand how the bologna process in particular can help. on the other hand, despite the unemployment rates of skilled young people, it is essential that europe does not allow the idea to spread that our growth model should not depend on the skills of the workforce. bologna is still making its way. any student enrolled in a course at any european university should be able to have his qualification recognised throughout the european union. as this is not yet the case throughout the european area, it is important to speed up this harmonization. only then will a genuine european higher education area be possible. the wider the recognition space, the more opportunities for mobility there are for young europeans who, as we know, are not affected by this crisis in the same way throughout the union.
mr president, i ask the president of the commission why the second greek package will not work. same reason the first one didn't work. because what matters is not the size of the debt of countries, it is the capacity that they have to generate the means to pay that debt. and with its obsession with fiscal rigor, the troika, seemingly out of control - it is not clear to whom they are answerable - imposes prescriptions that, year after year, push the greek economy into an unstoppable recession. in a recession, there's no way to pay. in an economy where exports account for no more than 20% of output, reducing wages and raising taxes do not increase competitiveness, they only crush domestic demand. greece will next year be in five successive years of recession, a unique case in the history of europe. in 2011, output fell by 7%, 200,000 businesses closed, unemployment reached 23% of the working population, there are 32 new forms of tax since the troika entered greece, and disposable income fell by 50%. the question is: where will the momentum come from in this context so that greece can pay what it has asked for and what it owes? and yet the second package provides for a primary surplus of 4.5% to meet the targets. where does growth come from for greece? however, the troika's recipe accompanying the second package recommends a 22% reduction in wages, and a 32% reduction for young people. the question is: are we at a turning point with the pollution that exists in europe? we are in an emergency situation. either we quickly mutualise sovereign debt and launch a genuine marshall plan for growth in europe, particularly for the countries that are currently in trouble, or our turning point is, unfortunately, towards the abyss. i am sorry to say this, but i think the warning must be made very clear.
mr president, the conclusions of the european council mean nothing more than the institutionalization of the same policies which have led to the present dramatic social situation and which are deepening it by increasing unemployment, reducing wages, shrinking the welfare state and ending public services. behind the technocratic language and the words of budgetary consolidation, there is only this reality: the condemnation of families to poverty and despair. the reaffirmation of the objectives of strategy 2020, the stability and growth pact, economic governance and the euro plus pact translates into this: attack on wages, labour and social rights, facilitation of dismissals, privatisation of public services, i.e. alienation of the collective wealth of the peoples. at the same time as this is being imposed on workers, the ecb is injecting another 500 billion euros of liquidity into private banking, at 1% interest. the signing of the so-called budgetary pact and the treaty establishing the european stabilisation mechanism, outside the rules of the european union itself, constitutes an unacceptable attack on the sovereignty of countries, which are no longer able to decide sovereignly in budgetary matters, thus opening the way to the establishment of colonial-type relations in the european union, where big capital and the great powers such as germany are in charge. in case you have not noticed, the peoples and workers of europe are fighting against this trend. the portuguese workers will also take part in the next great day of struggle against these austerity measures, the general strike on 22 march in portugal.
i would like to draw your attention, mr president, to the fact that i welcome the council's results. not because the measures are ideal, but because they are possible measures. there is no doubt that we have come a long way today and can be more optimistic than we were three months ago and six months ago. many states have been making a huge effort to stabilise and consolidate their public finances, and this effort has only been made in some states by the european union. it is essential for them to regain their credibility on the international markets and it is essential for them to be able, in the long run, to grow. with these guarantees given by the member states - among which the portuguese state stands out - to achieve fiscal consolidation, budgetary consolidation, i am also convinced that, with the new treaty signed by the 25, we will be in a position to give a serious boost to growth in the next steps of the european council. but it is only with this confidence that is being generated, little by little, that this growth has to be done. and that is why i say: solidarity of the richest with the poorest is important, but of the poorest with the richest is also important, by giving these guarantees.
mr president, the budgetary pact signed a few days ago shows that growth and employment are still being blatantly ignored by the european leaders. if smes are key to growth and employment, and in particular youth employment, as president barroso has stressed, is it not scandalous that, particularly in countries under rescue and recessionary austerity such as mine, they are suffocated by a lack of credit while banks go to the ecb for liquidity at 1%, but immorally continue to refuse them funding or only grant it in return for exorbitant interest? how can we explain the passivity of our governments and the commission in the face of tax evasion, even though mr barroso has admitted here today that he is diverting more than 1 trillion euros from investment in the european economy? the fiscal compact does not contain a single line on tax harmonization, on offshore control, on combating tax dumping between member states, or even on the financial transaction tax, which, in addition to additional resources to invest, would be a principle for controlling financial transactions in the european union. is it any wonder that young europeans are being forced to leave the european union? in portugal, where the unemployment rate is above 35%, the government takes on the collective incapacity and incompetence, encourages them to emigrate. aren't they ashamed? (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. the signing of the so-called budgetary and fiscal pact, now renamed the treaty on stability, coordination and governance of the economic and monetary union, although it is a legal aberration in the light of the rules of the european union itself, marked the last european council. the rules contained in this treaty mean the institutionalization of the same policies that led to the dramatic social situation we are currently experiencing, with the dizzying increase in unemployment, the decrease in wages (and therefore the increase in exploitation) and the dismantling of the social functions of the state. we are not really facing new political and ideological trends. we are faced with a reinforced application, in content and means, to make it take revenge for the old guidelines which have guided the whole process of european capitalist integration. behind the technocratic language surrounding the so-called budgetary consolidation lies the reality of the condemnation of thousands of families to poverty and despair. the path reaffirmed at this council meeting will only result in a deepening of the economic crisis in the countries of the european union - a clear reality confirmed by the european commission's own data confirming the economic recession in the euro area - and an even greater deterioration of the social crisis which is eloquently illustrated by the record unemployment figures released yesterday.
in writing. promoting growth and employment are currently two of the main objectives within the european union. we can count on greater stability in the euro area and on serious efforts and determination on the part of the various member states and institutions. the budgetary treaty recently signed will have to prove its discipline and the european parliament now has the commission as the guardian of the treaties. the various instruments must be applied and new measures, contained in a new legislative package on the single market, will naturally contribute to its growth and, consequently, to the promotion of employment.
mr president, the european commission's impact study of december 2011 on the possible trade agreement between the european union and mercosur points to a fall of 1.6% in income and 0.4% in employment in european agriculture. the report also points out that, in addition to these average figures for the meat market, the impact of the various member states will be greater, 2 to 3% on beef in countries such as ireland, belgium, denmark or luxembourg. in regions such as limousin and auvergne in france, it even has negative impacts of 3 to 7.5%. can the presidency confirm the figure of eur 7 billion as a negative impact of this agreement on european agriculture by 2020? if that is the figure, eur 7 billion of negative impact, how can the use of the eur 2,5 billion of the eagf proposed by the commission for the period 2014-2020 be a response to this problem? what does the presidency think of all this?
in writing. - i approve this proposal for the amendment of the protocol in question, considering that there is a need for extended cooperation without frontiers in the fight against crime. the signing of this protocol will thus increase the area of cooperation between the european union and these countries in the field of criminal law, and will enable them and the eu member states to benefit from information on banking transactions and the fight against organised crime, which will only benefit the security of european citizens in general.
in writing. − i support the adoption of this agreement, signed on 19 december 2003, which will allow the provisions on mutual legal assistance which are in force and already implemented in the vast majority of member states to be extended to norway and iceland. the fact that these two countries are members of the schengen area makes it all the more evident that judicial cooperation in criminal matters between them and the eu member states needs to be modernised and strengthened in order to be able to fight crossborder crime more effectively. this agreement covers provisions relating to the hearing of witnesses, experts and defendants by telephone or videoconference, as well as to surreptitious deliveries, covert investigations, joint investigation teams and requests for information on bank transfers, bank accounts and their monitoring in the context of the fight against crime, and in particular organised crime. i also welcome the possibility of involving eurojust in cases where the request is rejected or where there are difficulties in implementing the request.
in writing. - the globalisation we are experiencing today has made even more evident the need for collaboration between states on matters previously considered to be the exclusive competence of each. the crossborder nature of crime has become more pronounced, as has its degree of sophistication and articulation, requiring an understanding and a state response that cannot fail to involve collaboration with other subjects of international law and the articulation of common responses. it is therefore natural that the european union should seek to implement this type of understanding with two neighbouring countries with a similar history, culture and standards of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights to its own, such as iceland and norway. i welcome this agreement and hope that european integration in these matters, which are so important for the safety and well-being of the people, will continue to involve iceland and norway more and more and that this involvement will produce good results both in terms of crime prevention and crime suppression.
in writing. - the report by mr claude moraes on a recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway concerning the application of certain provisions of the convention of 29 may on mutual assistance in criminal matters between the member states of the european union and the 2001 protocol thereto. the aim of the agreement is to improve legal cooperation between the member states and norway and iceland in the fight against all forms of crime, in particular as regards the hearing of witnesses, experts and defendants by telephone or videoconference, as well as supervised deliveries, covert investigations, joint investigation teams, investigative procedures and information on bank accounts. i voted in favour of this report because the extension to norway and iceland of the legal aid provisions already implemented in many member states, as well as strengthening cooperation with two schengen countries, will strengthen the fight against crossborder crime, which is being boosted by the current economic and financial crisis and by increased mobility throughout the schengen area.
in writing. - this report approves the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and iceland and norway, stating that it aims to improve legal cooperation between the member states and these two countries. almost all the legal provisions of the 2000 convention on mutual legal assistance between member states apply. the protocol to this convention includes provisions on the hearing of witnesses, experts and defendants by telephone or videoconference, on surreptitious deliveries, on covert investigations and joint investigation teams and on requests for information on bank transfers, bank accounts and their monitoring in the context of the fight against crime in general and organised crime in particular. we are therefore faced with the extension of this protocol to these two countries, a procedure to which we are not opposed, in respect for the sovereignty of the states in this field and their right to establish the cooperation relations they freely understand.
in writing. − the fight against crime requires a reinforcement of dialogue and action between the judicial authorities of the member states. judicial cooperation in criminal matters is based on the principle of mutual recognition of judgments and judicial decisions of the member states, which implies the approximation of the relevant national laws and the application of common minimum rules. thus, by applying almost all the provisions contained in the 2000 convention on mutual legal assistance between member states and its protocol adopted in 2001, judicial cooperation between the eu member states and norway and iceland becomes a reality. the agreement in question includes provisions of major importance such as those relating to the hearing of witnesses, experts and defendants by telephone or videoconference, to surreptitious deliveries, to covert investigations and joint investigation teams and to requests for information on bank transfers, bank accounts and their monitoring in the context of the fight against crime in general and organised crime in particular. the adoption of this agreement represents a considerable step forward in the creation of an effective area of cooperation with countries outside the union, with positive repercussions within the union itself, allowing the creation of an ever-growing area of freedom, justice and security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the extension to norway and iceland of the provisions on mutual legal assistance already in force and implemented in most member states. this agreement will undoubtedly help in the fight against crossborder crime and will strengthen cooperation with two countries which already belong to the schengen area and with iceland, which is currently in accession negotiations with the european union.
in writing. − this agreement aims to improve legal cooperation between eu member states and norway and iceland by applying many of the provisions contained in the 2000 convention on mutual legal assistance between member states. this is an important mechanism to combat crossborder crime, which in turn will strengthen cooperation with two countries which already belong to the schengen area and which has therefore earned my vote in favour.
in writing. − the objective of this agreement is to improve the existing judicial cooperation between the european union, iceland and norway by applying a set of rules which are set out in the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual assistance in criminal matters. i agree with this report because it sets out new rules for cooperation between the eu and other countries, particularly in the area of justice, police and public authorities. i also welcome the establishment of rules for hearing defendants, witnesses and experts by videoconference or telephone, the promotion of easier access to banking transactions and the creation of joint investigation teams, thus facilitating the rapid resolution of judicial cases under consideration. i also believe that eurojust should be involved in this conciliation procedure, as it can intervene if a member state refuses to cooperate or if there is any difficulty in executing a request made by the judicial authorities.
in writing. - the report approves the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and iceland and norway containing provisions on the hearing of witnesses, experts and defendants by telephone or videoconference, on surreptitious deliveries, on covert investigations and joint investigation teams and on requests for information on bank transfers, bank accounts and their monitoring in the fight against crime in general and organised crime in particular. since this is only a formalization of the agreement between states, we did not oppose this procedure.
in writing. - i grant this request for immunity. a court has requested it in connection with pending cases involving alleged defamation against a private person. although members of the european parliament cannot be sought, detained or prosecuted for opinions or votes expressed in the exercise of their functions, the facts of the case indicate that the statements were made at a time when ms morvai was not a member of the european parliament.
in writing. - this report concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of ms krisztina morvai by the central district court of pest, pursuant to articles 8 and 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union. the request was examined by the committee on legal affairs, in accordance with rule 6 (2) of the rules of procedure, which, before delivering its opinion, heard krisztina morvai and requested further information and clarifications from the central district court of pest. krisztina is accused of public defamation for making statements on television considered offensive to the good name of citizen jános zombori. the mep acknowledges that she made these statements in her capacity as a women's rights activist. since the statements in question were made in 2005, well before she was elected to the ep, which would not happen until 2009, they cannot be considered as part of her duties as a member of the european parliament and therefore did not fall within the scope of the statute for members of the european parliament. in this connection, and in view of the commission's recommendation on the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of krisztina morvai, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. however, and considering that the facts of the case, as evidenced by the documents sent by the court to the committee on legal affairs, indicate that the statements were made at a time when krisztina morvai was not a member of the european parliament, i am in favour of the waiver of immunity.
in writing. the european parliament was asked to lift the parliamentary immunity of krisztina morvai following a criminal case in which she is accused of defamation under the hungarian criminal code. since the statements in question were made in 2005, before krisztina morvai became a member of the european parliament following her election to the european parliament in 2009, the committee on legal affairs, after considering the reasons of fact and law for and against the waiver of the member's immunity, recommends that the european parliament not waive the parliamentary immunity of krisztina morvai. the committee on legal affairs considers that, in making the statements in question, ms morvai did not act in the exercise of her duties as a member of the european parliament. on the basis of these arguments, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the harmonization of legislation in the field of succession law is essential if european citizenship is to cease to be an abstract concept in this field. this would prevent confusion of interpretation by courts and advisers and create a clearer system, with a clear understanding of which laws apply and where. the creation of a european certificate of succession would provide family members with an instrument to validate their possession of assets, with cross-border implications.
in writing. − there are still many obstacles, directly or indirectly, which continue to hinder the free movement of people within the eu and the ability of citizens to fully benefit from the advantages of the single market. the cross-border obstacles to succession at european level affect some 50 million people (e.g. citizens living in a member state other than their member state of origin, holding assets in a member state other than their member state of residence, mixed couples, etc.) and also have a direct impact on their heirs. this is the first time that a union instrument has been adopted in the field of succession law, which is by its nature a very sensitive area and intrinsically linked to the national forum. we are facing a very important and complex initiative which brings clear benefits to citizens, not only in terms of clarity and legal certainty, but also by avoiding fragmentation at the level of succession and by making a significant contribution to reducing bureaucracy and costs. it will allow for the free movement and recognition of succession decisions and the creation of a european certificate of succession, which will allow citizens to prove their status and exercise their rights throughout the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on succession and the european certificate of succession, because it introduces measures to simplify and clarify succession and inheritance procedures in the european union, in particular the european certificate of succession.
in writing. − the present proposal does not seek to harmonise the substantive law applicable to succession, but rather to establish harmonised rules for the settlement of international jurisdictional conflicts. this means that we are working within the framework of private international law and not within the substantive framework of the law of succession, where each state will continue to have its own laws. with the increasing globalisation of personal and family relationships, it is important to ensure legal certainty and security for the parties when several jurisdictions are involved. the proposal aims to establish common rules on the law applicable and the court having jurisdiction in matters of succession. i cannot but consider it an important step towards the construction of an area of freedom and justice in which the free movement of persons is effective to give greater legal certainty to the resolution of international disputes in the field of succession law, in particular by creating the european certificate of succession.
in writing. − the achievement of the objectives underlying the creation of the european union, namely the functioning of the single market and the free movement of persons and goods, has encouraged the mobility of europeans, who increasingly emigrate to other member states where they settle, work, marry, divorce, acquire property and die. this report, drawn up by mr kurt lechner, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and authentic instruments in matters of succession and the creation of a european certificate of succession. this is a cross-border legal regime which is an important step forward in this area and will allow for more effective application of the law in response to the concerns of families. in fact, after a decision has been taken, there are no limitations on the enforcement of the judgment due to the european certificate of succession. i welcome the adoption of this report, which is good news for thousands of european citizens who will benefit from this initiative which will end many conflicts. i regret, however, that it was not possible to obtain the agreement of the united kingdom and ireland.
in writing. - it is regrettable that this report was not made available in time, like the others, in all the language versions. in particular, the portuguese version was not available in digital format at the time of the vote. unfortunately, this is not the first time this has happened. these are situations which call into question respect for the principle of multilingualism in the european parliament and the equality of members, regardless of their country of origin and their mother tongue. the report proposes unified rules on jurisdiction, applicable law and recognition of courts in situations where citizens of one member state reside in another member state, in order to clarify situations in succession law which are often in doubt today. the european commission's proposal, which the report endorses, proposes the creation of a european certificate of succession. we believe that it is clearly necessary to protect citizens against the shortcomings of the current legal framework, the existing framework for the free movement of persons between member states. it should be borne in mind, however, that the law of succession and all relevant provisions in this field must result from an expression of national sovereignty, which must be respected. the solutions to concrete problems that exist today must therefore respect this framework.
in writing. − the union has set itself the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice in which the free movement of persons is ensured. in order to gradually create such an area, the union should adopt measures in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters having cross-border implications, in particular where this is necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. it is appropriate to facilitate the proper functioning of the internal market by removing obstacles to the free movement of persons who currently face difficulties in exercising their rights in the context of a succession with cross-border implications. in the european area of justice, citizens must be able to organise their succession in advance. the rights of heirs and legatees and other persons close to the deceased, as well as of the creditors of the succession, need to be effectively guaranteed. in order to achieve those objectives, this regulation should group together the provisions on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition or, as the case may be, acceptance, enforceability and enforcement of judgments, authentic instruments and court settlements, as well as the european certificate of succession. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - 450 000 crossborder successions are opened in the european union each year, representing an estimated value of over eur 120 billion and about 10% of all successions. this proposal for a regulation aims to avoid legal conflicts and lengthy proceedings for heirs when the application of the laws of more than one member state is at stake. one of the innovative measures is the creation of a european certificate of succession designed to clarify the legal position of the testator and safeguard the rights of heirs and other parties, including creditors. i believe that these measures can contribute to greater efficiency and speed in these procedures, and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in october 2009, the european commission presented a proposal for a regulation to the european parliament and the council with the aim of establishing the conditions for residents of the european union who own property in several member states to be able to organise their succession in advance and effectively guarantee the rights of heirs and/or legatees and other persons related to the deceased as well as the creditors of the succession. in order to achieve a solution across all member states, it is essential that single reference criteria are defined for the rights of succession, in particular the return, administration or liquidation of the assets of the rightful owner. i agree with the proposal that has been put forward, which guarantees greater legal certainty for citizens residing in the european union, since the criterion of habitual residence is now applied to the court having jurisdiction to apply its own law. finally, it should be stressed that for citizens who are habitually resident in their country of origin and have property in that country, no changes will be made to the normal succession procedure. the rules of the country of residence will also apply to property held by citizens outside their country of origin.
in writing. − the report proposes to unify rules on jurisdiction, applicable law and recognition of courts in situations where citizens of one member state reside in another member state, in order to clarify situations in succession law which are currently in doubt. the european commission is therefore proposing the creation of a european certificate of succession. it is necessary to protect citizens against the shortcomings of the current legal framework, the existing framework for the free movement of persons between member states. however, it is necessary to ensure that the right of succession and all relevant provisions in this area result from an expression of national sovereignty, which must be respected. we also regret that this report was not made available in time, as were the others, in all the language versions, particularly the portuguese version. these situations call into question respect for the principle of multilingualism in the european parliament and the equality of members, irrespective of their country of origin and their mother tongue.
in writing. - all european citizens must be citizens with full rights. i support this report because it highlights that, although we are on one of the most prosperous and developed continents in the world, there is still a long way to go in terms of gender equality, particularly in terms of equal pay for men and women in the same jobs.
in writing. − although gender equality is one of the eu's fundamental principles, the problem of inequality persists. the commission has put forward numerous proposals to tackle this inequality, notably for strategy 2020, but unfortunately progress has been too slow. in times of economic crisis it is even more evident that the strengthening of women's position in the labour market and their economic independence is not only a moral imperative but also an economic necessity. today, 60 percent of recent graduates are women. however, they are very unlikely to enter the workforce with their training, and there is a pay gap (which needs to be reduced) where women earn on average 17.5% less than men. it is also essential to strengthen measures to reconcile work and private life. particular attention should be paid to the most vulnerable groups of women, who are at a higher risk of social exclusion, poverty and extreme human rights violations. i call on the member states and all the parties concerned not to merely advocate the achievement of gender equality in words but to make the necessary efforts and actions to make it a priority in both their social and economic strategies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which shows once again that the promotion of gender equality is a process of ups and downs. the difficulty of reconciling family and working life, the wage gap and many other discriminations against women are obstacles to women's increased participation in the labour market and their professional fulfilment. as rapporteur for the proposal for a revision of the maternity leave directive, i consider it essential that the european council takes a position on the proposals adopted by the european parliament, especially as this legislation could make an important contribution to promoting equality between men and women and respond to the needs of european families and the economy itself.
in writing. - the principle of equality is, alongside freedom, one of the pillars of democratic states governed by the rule of law. it is because i believe in the importance of the principle of equality that i understand that men and women deserve equal opportunities and should have the same conditions that allow them to rise to management and leadership positions in the business world. this should be achieved by removing the remaining barriers to women - such as the negative impact of motherhood on career progression - and not by imposing quotas definitively by regulation. as i have said on several occasions, quotas, if they are not temporary, only reduce the number of women rather than guaranteeing them equal access to the profession, to public office or to management and leadership positions in companies. moreover, in the area of private initiative, the imposition of quotas may be an intervention which restricts the freedom of shareholders and, as such, may even infringe article 16 of the charter of fundamental rights which lays down the principle of freedom of establishment. i therefore advocate the adequacy of these essential principles.
in writing. − this report, by sophia in t veld, analyses the 2011 report on equality between men and women in the european union. the role of women in so-called modern societies has been increasingly valued over the last few decades, largely due to the more open-mindedness of communities in northern european countries. from a position of subservience and dependence on men, due to her dual status as mother and housewife, women have moved, by their own merit, to a situation of equality based on their emancipation, academic and vocational training. the principle of equal work, equal pay is not respected in all sectors of employment. in addition, because of motherhood, they are overlooked in many companies and are only able to take up management or administrative positions at great cost, despite representing 60% of new graduates.
in writing. the report identifies some of the main reasons for discrimination between men and women, which are directly linked to their economic and employment status. this option denotes a correct approach, which we value. the report proposes positive measures to promote economic equality and equal working conditions between men and women. but the current political and social situation in the european union is an inevitable part of this discussion. the austerity measures now being championed by the european institutions, and in particular by the majority of this parliament, which are intended to be enshrined in the treaties, will lead to huge setbacks in the area of equality between men and women: further weakening of labour relations, with the principle of collective bargaining being weakened; higher unemployment rates; greater precariousness at work, which already affects women in particular; a reduction in the public care network, which would be essential to alleviate the burden of work on women. well, to defend equality between men and women means to reject this path outright and to defend and improve the rights of working women.
in writing. - as a strong advocate of equality for all human beings, regardless of sex, ethnicity, age, religion, etc., i cannot subscribe to proposals which seek to make positive discrimination against women ever wider and deeper. as regards women's sexual and reproductive health, i believe that it should be strengthened; but i do not subscribe to the expression reproductive rights, which, since it should be restricted to the desired family planning, has been extended to the so-called right to abortion, which i do not subscribe to, since it ignores the interests of the human being in pregnancy. i have voted against the points mentioned, but i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − as the current economic crisis is likely to affect women more than men, the eu needs to take a more proactive stance so that inequalities between the two genders within the community are reduced. the aim is to put into practice the so-called positive action in order to increase the rate of participation of women in the labour market and their access to positions of power traditionally occupied by men. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a fundamental step towards greater equality between men and women.
in writing. - the european union has played an important role in the fight for equality between men and women. however, despite the best efforts that have been made, much remains to be done in this area. it is therefore necessary to ensure equality in economic independence and decision-making and to promote equality between men and women outside the union. i voted in favour of the report, taking into account the amendments proposed by the epp group, to which i belong.
in writing. the report identifies some of the main reasons for discrimination between men and women, which are directly linked to their economic and employment status. while we do not subscribe to some of the measures advocated, such as the introduction of quota mechanisms in electoral, appointment or administrative bodies, which would only lead to an artificial solution to the problem of inequality between men and women, the report proposes positive measures to promote economic equality and equal working conditions between men and women. unfortunately, if the austerity measures advocated by the european institutions, and in particular by the majority of this parliament, are continued, they will lead to huge setbacks in the area of equality between men and women: a further weakening of labour relations, with the weakening of the principle of collective bargaining, higher unemployment rates, greater precariousness at work, which already affects women in particular, a reduction in the public care network, which would be essential to alleviate the workload of women. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council at the next meeting of the european council in brussels.
in writing. − i agree with the main conclusions of this report, although it is noted that there has been a significant evolution in the representation of women, including in more prominent positions. it is entirely fair and an important requirement for the balanced functioning of a democratic society that principles of equality be adopted in this matter.
in writing. − the active participation of women in political decision-making on an equal footing with men is essential for the sustained achievement of equality, development and democracy. gender balance is a matter of equality, but also a guarantor of a higher quality of democracy, as it contributes to more diverse and participatory decisions. the european union's commitment to this cause has been remarkable, notably through measures such as the strategy for equality between men and women 2010-2015. this report highlights the traditional barriers to women's access to public office, such as financial difficulties, a predominantly male culture, the reconciliation of family and political life, and the stereotypes still prevalent in public media. thus, concrete and structural measures are needed to make women's political participation a tangible reality, including through focusing on training, ensuring equal opportunities in access to campaigns and presenting a positive image of women as leaders. political parties also have a crucial role to play in combating the under-representation of women in the decision-making political assemblies of the member states. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − in the vast majority of member states, women remain under-represented in political and public decision-making, especially at the highest levels of the hierarchy, which is all the more important when one considers that women make up almost 50% of the workforce and that more than 50% of recent graduates are women. this inequality is projected in most member states and also at european level. in the ep, it has increased to 35% and the commission has a third of women. these are positive signs which need to be encouraged and generalized. the persistent under-representation of women constitutes a democratic deficit which ultimately undermines the legitimacy of decision-making at both national and eu level. i therefore support this report which seeks to encourage the formulation of strategies and the adoption of concrete measures to promote a balanced representation of women at all levels of political and public decision-making. i have serious doubts (and therefore abstain on the relevant points) that the quota system is the best solution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the introduction of gender quotas in european legislation and in the political systems of the eu member states. to ensure gender equality in the political decision-making process, including on electoral lists and in top positions in the eu, binding measures and sanctions are needed at national and european level. i also advocate that national governments propose, after the 2014 european elections, a man and a woman to fill the post of commissioner/european/eu.
in writing. - although i am a firm supporter of the principle of equality, i do not think that the way to achieve greater female representation in politics is through definitive quotas. without this solution, and on their own merits, there have been extraordinary women politicians who have marked the history of their states and the world. i remember, without intending to be exhaustive, margaret thatcher, golda meir and indira gandhi. i also remember simone veil, the first woman president of this house. i believe that the definitive quotas do not guarantee equal conditions of access to the profession, to political and public positions or to management and business leadership. it is more important to ensure equal opportunities for women. finally, i would remind you that the initiative in this area should be the responsibility of the member states and that the principle of subsidiarity should be respected.
in writing. - the current exclusion of women from political life is rooted in ethnocultural issues. the lower the level of development of a society, the worse the position of women in respect of their rights. even in societies where their emancipation has gained citizenship forums, gender equality remains a mirage. if, little by little, in some areas such as education, health and social action, women are rivaling or surpassing the number of men, there are others, such as politics, where their participation increases only timidly and through legislative impositions. the use of the quota system, although it may call into question a selection not based on the principle of merit, has nevertheless contributed to this increase. despite recent progress and the supporting policies implemented in the eu, much remains to be done. in the eu, only 5% of meps and 10% of ministers are women.
in writing. - this report starts from the fact that women are under-represented in elected and appointed positions, in the bodies of national sovereignty and in the european parliament itself, and in what it calls 'top positions' in general. to solve this problem, it advocates the legal imposition of quota systems that promote parity in these areas. the approach adopted by the rapporteur is reductive and lacks the essential elements for a correct understanding of the problem on the one hand and for a fair solution on the other. women's civic and political participation at various levels - associational, trade union, cultural and other - is hampered by limitations in access to education, culture and public services, and by economic difficulties which are a direct result of the wage inequalities they suffer and the precariousness of their jobs. these are issues that underlie gender discrimination, which cannot be ignored and which limit women's social, political and cultural involvement. it is these structural inequalities - the expression of class inequalities - that must be combated. the solution cannot be simply to establish artificial, formal, administrative equality, forgetting and keeping untouched the real problems of the overwhelming majority of women. we also reject any interference in the internal life of the parties.
in writing. - i abstained on all points concerning women's quotas because i consider that, on the one hand, they diminish women and are contrary to the principle of merit which i subscribe to for the appointment of people to posts and/or functions; i would also like to thank the rapporteur for her report, which is a very good report and i hope that the commission will be able to support it. i did, however, vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - the role of women in political decision-making is essential to the very quality of democracy. however, there is still a long way to go to achieve this goal, as the lack of financial resources, the predominantly male culture in politics, stereotypes and the difficulty of reconciling family life with political life constitute serious obstacles. it is therefore necessary to continue positive action in this area, in particular by adopting special temporary measures to accelerate the establishment of de facto equality between men and women so that there is a representation of women in political positions similar to that in the nordic countries. states and political parties themselves should therefore create an environment conducive to women's involvement in politics, either through education or through the funding of general education programmes that promote civic awareness of gender issues, the elimination of gender stereotypes and prejudice against women.
in writing. − gender equality in decision-making is a matter of quality and equality. a more balanced gender participation contributes to more diverse and therefore better decisions. gender balance is also a matter of equality guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. it is therefore essential to improve the representation of women in elected and appointed positions and to implement measures to promote women's participation in political life. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report notes the under-representation of women in elected and appointed positions, in bodies of national sovereignty and in the european parliament itself and in what it calls top positions. to solve this problem, it advocates the introduction of quota systems that promote parity in these areas. in our view, women's political participation occurs at various levels of women's lives - in their associative, trade union, cultural and everyday life. women have greater difficulties in participating in these fields because of the difficulties in accessing education and culture, but also because of the economic difficulties which are a direct result of the wage inequalities to which they are subject. on the other hand, precarious employment means that they have little time for social and political participation. the lack of public child welfare services is another factor contributing to the burden of women's work. it is these structural inequalities that must be combated, not the establishment of artificial equality, while keeping the real problems of most women untouched. on the other hand, as stated in paragraphs 5, 6 and 7, we do not accept any interference in the internal life of political parties, which concerns only those who are members of them.
in writing. − the european commission reports annually to the spring european council on progress on equality between men and women in the member states, and also presents the challenges and priorities for the future. this own-initiative report comes in the context of the commission's last communication on this subject, published in february 2011. equality between men and women is a fundamental principle of community law and this is the commitment that must be renewed, thus consolidating gender equality in the framework of the 2020 strategy. however, this report deals with very sensitive issues such as the mutual recognition of civil unions and families of same-sex couples, abortion, the role of women in political decision-making and the use of quotas, and the maternity leave directive. i therefore believe that there is still a long way to go in this area, and i also believe that the strategy for achieving the proposed objectives requires a greater concentration and a genuinely targeted approach to the issue of equality between men and women in the european union, away from other related issues which may, however, obscure the true dimension of this problem.
in writing. - i approve this report. in addition to being a matter of relevance from the point of view of labour rights, it is definitely important to understand that the conditions of workers are reflected in the company's results. the greater the involvement of employees in the decision-making processes of companies, the greater the motivation and commitment to their activities and consequently to their productivity and the competitiveness of the company.
in writing. − the regulatory framework applicable to the european cooperative society ('cec') is contained in council regulation (ec) no 1435/2003 of 22 july 2003 on the statute of the cec and directive 2003/72/ec, which complements the statute of the cec as regards employee involvement. although it has been in existence for almost a decade, this regime cannot be considered successful: by 2010, only 17 sces had been created, employing a total of 32 workers.
in writing. - this own-initiative report, by sven giegold, deals with the status of the european cooperative society (sce) as regards the involvement of workers in this form of trade which we can call social. there are currently over 160 000 cooperatives in europe, employing some 5.4 million people and providing local supplies, mainly in rural areas. in the current economic and financial crisis, when we are witnessing an unprecedented cut in public spending and a significant increase in unemployment rates, a social economy model based on cooperativism is an asset to society. in fact, cooperatives not only provide goods and services at more competitive prices - they are not for profit - but also promote education, vocational training, continuing training and entrepreneurship programmes. i therefore welcome the proposal to the commission for the launch of the european year of the social economy and welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, which not only recognises the role of cooperatives in economic growth and job creation, but also encourages the extension of their scope and number with a view to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − the report focuses on advocating for an improvement in the participation rights of employees in cooperative societies, with the integration of this issue in the revision of the regulation on the statute of the european cooperative society (sce), and not just in the directive 2003/72/ec on employee involvement. the promotion of the social economy and the cooperative sector will be important in strengthening production systems, particularly those linked to local and regional needs and realities. on the other hand, the ways in which cooperative management operates must incorporate concerns for a fairer and more equitable redistribution of the proceeds of these organisations to their members and workers. in this respect, we welcome the fact that the report stresses the importance of the member states transposing certain articles of the directive on workers' rights and of taking measures to encourage the development potential of cooperatives, especially in a period of economic crisis such as the one we are experiencing today. however, we do not share the view that the future status of sce should encourage the development of the eu internal market in the concrete context in which it is currently developing, namely free capitalist competition.
in writing. − cooperative enterprises, in addition to promoting the interests of their members and users, also offer important solutions to social challenges, representing a factor of local development, which is crucial for genuine economic, social and territorial cohesion. they are an important pillar of the european economy, with considerable economic power in globalised markets. the revision of the regulation on the statute for a european cooperative society (sce) is motivated by the need to protect the participation rights of employees in cooperative societies. i voted in favour of the report, but i cannot help but point out the obvious lack of success of the european cooperative society (ecs), as evidenced by the fact that only 17 ecs had been set up by 8 may 2010, a failure which is particularly flagrant in member states with a long tradition of the cooperative movement. the need to rethink measures to promote the sce by increasing its visibility and promoting cooperation between cooperative societies across borders.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which creates a legal status for a european cooperative society (sce). this statute ensures a level playing field between cooperative societies and limited liability companies and is intended to contribute to the development of the transnational activities of cooperative societies.
in writing. - article 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that cooperative societies are companies under civil or commercial law, while article 152 of the treaty stresses that the european union recognises and promotes the role of the social partners, taking into account the diversity of national systems. i agree with the report as a whole, because i believe that it is essential to recognise the role played by cooperatives and other social enterprises in building the european social model and the single market, and that there should be greater encouragement for the participation of employees in the active life of companies. however, i am opposed to the adoption of quotas of 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020 for the participation of women in management positions and boards of public or listed companies, considering that this is not the right way to promote the merit, competence and knowledge acquired over the years by women. finally, i believe that cooperatives play a very important role in regional cooperation, as there is a greater rapprochement with producers at local level, thus fostering greater social, economic and territorial cohesion.
in writing. − this report calls for improvement of workers' participation rights and for this issue to be integrated already in the revision of the regulation on the statute of the european cooperative society, and not just in the 2003/72/ec directive on employee involvement. we are convinced that the promotion of the social economy and the cooperative sector can be an important factor in strengthening production systems, particularly in relation to local and regional needs and realities. it is also true that the ways in which cooperative management operates must achieve fairer and more equitable ways of redistributing the product among its members and workers. in this respect, we welcome the fact that the report stresses the importance of member states transposing certain articles of the directive on workers' rights and of taking measures to encourage the development potential of cooperatives, especially today, in a period of economic crisis. however, we do not accept the premise that the future status of the sce should encourage the development of the internal market of the european union, that is, a market which promotes the free movement of capital, goods and services within the framework of capitalist competition.
in writing. - i approve this report, welcoming the objectives achieved so far towards harmonising higher education at european level. however, the objective of the process is not yet fulfilled: any student at any european university must have the qualification recognised at european level. only then can we speak of the success of the bologna process. to this end, all those involved, from member states to higher education organisations, need to be made aware of the need to work towards these objectives as soon as possible.
in writing. − higher education should provide an accessible learning environment, without any discrimination, with access to quality education. the bologna process has made it possible to reconcile higher education systems in europe and to remove remaining barriers to cross-border mobility. however, its implementation has not been successful in all member states, either because of the current economic crisis or because of the absence of information, monitoring and support mechanisms for all higher education actors. strengthening this process is essential to achieve the europe 2020 objectives and requires the involvement of all member states, both through budgetary reinforcement and through the implementation of existing european programmes, such as the transparency and credit accumulation system. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the measures it contains will contribute to the successful implementation of the bologna process, with undeniable benefits for the european higher education system and for all its students, academics and staff.
in writing. - i support the berlinguer report on the bologna process. europe must be a benchmark for quality in education and training and ensure that education and training systems are compatible to enable mobility throughout the european area, not only geographically (within and between countries), but also horizontally (between courses) and vertically (within courses). i welcome the link established between bologna and the objectives for knowledge-based growth and innovation under the europe 2020 strategy and the importance of the european higher education area in the creation and development of a true european citizenship. i regret that some european universities seem reluctant to contribute to the strengthening of the european higher education area when this is crucial to increasing competitiveness and quality in the knowledge they produce. i agree that the european credit transfer and accumulation system should be more transparent and provide the possibility of more precise comparisons between qualifications and diplomas. i welcome the commission's proposal for a substantial increase in funding for european education and training programmes and i hope that it will work to make these programmes accessible to students in financial difficulties.
in writing. - like the rapporteur, i consider that the creation of a european higher education area is undoubtedly a major achievement in the history of the union. unfortunately, this is an unfinished reform and largely due to the lack of effective involvement of all stakeholders (educational sector/legislators) in the implementation of the bologna process. the rapporteur identifies a number of problems. from the very beginning the top-down approach, i.e. the imposition on universities by the member states/eu of models which were previously developed and in which the main actors in the educational process were not fully involved. other problems identified are the lack of links between higher education institutions and the labour market, the lack of mobility of higher education students within the european area and the problems that exist in the intra-european recognition of university degrees. unfortunately, these facts are compounded by the current economic and financial crisis, which has led to a lack of budgeting by many member states for their education systems. i believe, however, that strengthening the bologna process is absolutely essential to achieving the europe 2020 objectives and that the eu obviously has a central role to play in its effective implementation. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the bologna process because i believe that there is a need to assess and deepen the compatibility between higher education systems in europe and to remove the remaining barriers to crossborder mobility of citizens to study or work in another country.
in writing. - a few days before the bologna process ministerial conference, progress is being made in the area of access to education, which is a right of all citizens. european universities have reorganised their teaching activities within the three-cycle framework established by the bologna process towards the so-called third mission of the higher education system. the recognition and standardisation of education systems across the european union encourages the mobility of learners, fostering european integration in general and growth and employment in particular. with only a few days to go until the bologna process ministerial conference, it is therefore necessary to formulate concrete measures to promote the full implementation of its objectives in all universities in all member states, to the ultimate benefit of vocational training and european competitiveness.
in writing. the university of bologna, founded in 1088 and whose motto is alma mater studiorum, is the oldest university and celebrated its 900th anniversary in 1988, and remains a centre of university excellence. in 1998, on the occasion of the 800th anniversary of the university of paris, a number of european ministers signed the sorbonne declaration, with the aim of harmonising the european higher education system. on 19 june 1999, 30 european states signed the bologna declaration, which aimed to establish by 2010 a coherent, compatible, competitive and attractive european higher education area for european and third-country students, an area that promotes european cohesion through knowledge, mobility and employability of graduates, thus ensuring a better and more positive performance of europe in the world. the bologna process, through the mutual recognition of academic qualifications between the various universities of the signatory countries, allows for greater mobility of people in general and of students in particular. i welcome the adoption of this report and am confident that it will be a strong incentive to continue this process and contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the education and training 2020 programme and the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the rapporteur's apologetic view seeks to conceal or minimize some of the most serious consequences of the bologna process. these include: the creation of economic barriers to access to and attendance at higher education, the commodification of education (which excludes those who have less economic conditions to buy the products that today's higher education courses have become), the attack on the social function of the state in this field (which, in states such as portugal, is constitutionally enshrined, although not respected). education has been called into question as a right that should be guaranteed to everyone, regardless of their economic conditions, the role of the education system in overcoming social inequalities has been called into question, in order to create a knowledge market and a new business opportunity, which ensure the reproduction of social inequalities. these are some of the consequences of the bologna process! the stated objective of student mobility has been blocked, as the report itself acknowledges, by low rates of mobility. the harmonization of curricula ignores the specificities of the educational system of each country, in a trend towards vocational training rather than integral training. quality is declining and many students are forced into debt to access a fundamental right.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the contribution of the european institutions to the consolidation and progress of the bologna process. in fact, the creation of a european higher education area represents the final stage in the ambitious system launched by the bologna process. the broad structural reform of the european higher education system has not been as successful as expected and desired, but it is nevertheless a major objective to be achieved to enable the growth set out in the europe 2020 strategy, an important requirement for the full integration of the eu market and one of the only tools available to challenge the economic and financial crisis europe is going through. i call for greater involvement of all stakeholders, as the lack of respect by some european universities for the guidelines of the process demonstrates the need to implement new teaching strategies and to identify new measures to support this process.
in writing. − the bologna process has made it possible to make higher education systems in europe compatible and to remove remaining barriers to cross-border mobility, to enable studying in another country and to make european higher education more attractive. however, its application has not been uniform or successful in all member states, either because of the current economic crisis or because of the absence of information, monitoring and support mechanisms for all higher education actors. i voted in favour of this report, which provides for measures to strengthen this process. this is an essential process for achieving the europe 2020 objectives and requires the involvement of all member states, both through budgetary reinforcement and the full implementation of existing european programmes.
in writing. − the creation of a european higher education area is an essential goal for establishing a true european society based on knowledge and innovation, as expressed in the eu2020 strategy. to this end, the bologna process was launched in 1999, which aims to give a student enrolled in a european university the right to graduate and have his or her qualifications recognised throughout the eu. the system launched by the bologna process, which created three cycles and the credit transfer and accumulation system, faces several institutional and applicability obstacles. intergovernmental cooperation needs to be strengthened, as well as the involvement of the main actors in the process, universities, students and businesses. it is therefore necessary to look at physical, horizontal and vertical mobility, the recognition of qualifications and the framework for formal, non-formal and informal qualifications, quality assurance of institutions, the inclusion and social cohesion of university education, school/enterprise cooperation and the involvement of universities in creating innovation. unlocking the above points will make europe a place of teaching excellence.
in writing. - this report attempts to remedy or conceal some of the most serious consequences of the bologna process - the difficulty of access to higher education for those who are less economically able and who cannot afford the products that the higher education cycle packages have become today. the paradigm of education as a right that should be guaranteed to all people has been reversed to become a knowledge market and a new business opportunity. the much-touted objective of student mobility has been put on the back burner, because, as the report itself acknowledges, mobility rates are low. the aim is to harmonize the structure of knowledge and even of content, ignoring the specificities of the educational system of each country, in a trend towards vocational training rather than integrated education. the quality of education is declining, while many students are forced into debt to access a fundamental right. what is needed, as we have argued in our motion for a resolution, is cooperation between member states in higher education, but this must be done by guaranteeing the right of everyone to free, quality public higher education.
in writing. − i approve this report, agreeing to the progressive harmonisation of the statistical review measures and their codes of conduct, in order to bring more transparency, less discrepancies between member states and to give credibility to the european statistical system. all these efforts are important because the statistical sector qualifies governance by providing it with decisive analytical tools for decision-making.
in writing. − this report emphasises the need for rigorous, reliable and high-quality statistics, as they are an essential information basis for decision-making and the adoption of economic, social and territorial policies adapted to reality, both at european, national and regional level. it is agreed that the existence of accurate statistics is fundamental for the formulation of appropriate policies and that their impartiality, objectivity and independence must be guaranteed. the report sets out the assumptions that should be taken into account in the production of quality statistics and denounces the shortcomings and deficiencies found in both their production and governance. it stresses the need for statistics to be standardised, to be submitted in good time and for eurostat to play a central role in their aggregation and provision. it also suggests making statistics available in an easier and more intuitive way so that all citizens have simplified access to all data. i support this report as it is an asset for european citizens and policy-makers, making a clear contribution to improving decision-making, particularly in the context of implementing the europe 2020 priorities.
in writing. − this own-initiative report is intended to complement the six-pack, highlighting the importance of the quality of the figures in the statistics provided by the member states. in fact, the lack of knowledge of the real figures, or at least of absolute certainty in their collection methods (to allow reliable comparisons) between certain statistical variables, macro or microeconomic, in each of the member states, is a reality that unfortunately exists within the union, as recent events have well proved. this reality must objectively be stopped! it is clear that reliable and accurate statistics are essential for the formulation of effective economic and budgetary policies by member states and at union level, as can be seen from the report. it is also clear that these statistical bodies must be independent and have more powers, particularly in the field of research. and that the internal and external audit mechanisms will have to be strengthened. and that eurostat should support member states which so request. i therefore welcome this own-initiative report and its rapporteur, and i have obviously voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it argues that eurostat should continue, together with the main data providers and users, its efforts to modernise the methods of producing european statistics in order to provide reliable information to citizens.
in writing. − in the current context of the economic crisis in the euro area, the discussion on the quality and reliability of data provided by member states has become a major and central theme of the six-pack. it should be recalled that the presentation of statistics is an essential element of the european semester framework and that one of the six-pack directives sets out the requirements applicable to the budgetary frameworks of the member states. i therefore support the rapporteur on the need to ensure the independence of the national statistical councils from political power, the need to harmonise, as far as possible, the methodologies for obtaining and presenting results, and the need to strengthen the audit mechanisms so that we can ensure the highest possible quality and transparency of government financial statistics.
in writing. statistics is an essential technique for the substantiation of most scientific work and for sound decision-making. if we have the best information on a given subject, we can make a more correct and assertive decision. this report, by edward scicluna, analyses the document on the quality management of european statistics. member states and the european union need reliable and accurate statistics to enable them to adopt correct and effective social, economic and budgetary policies. the eurozone crisis has shown the inadequacy of existing data and in some cases statistical fraud. it is therefore imperative that member states scrupulously comply with the recommendations and legal provisions on this matter in the interests of good governance. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, because i believe that the measures envisaged, in addition to modernising the data collection system, introduce protective mechanisms and barriers, avoiding failures and making statistics independent of the political process. the success of the economic governance package and the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs requires statistics of the highest quality.
in writing. − the report focuses on some correct objectives and principles in the processing and collection of economic statistics, such as independence and autonomy, giving states responsibility for the accuracy and authenticity of statistical data. but the rapporteur does not avoid being caught in the web of his own contradictions, particularly when, while stating the need to safeguard the independence of the statistical services in relation to the threat of possible political interventions, both at national and european level, he ends up arguing that statistics should produce the data needed to monitor the results of economic governance and the six pack, which are nothing more than serious political impositions and attacks on the sovereignty of states in areas which are fundamental to determining the collective future of their peoples. we believe that statistical indicators should be used to provide the fullest possible knowledge and description of social and economic realities. moreover, they should not be selected with a view to pursuing political objectives which are, moreover, totally contrary to the defence of development, welfare and social progress.
in writing. − the existence of reliable statistical data is essential for the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances. in order to ensure the existence of sound and independent statistics, member states should ensure the professional independence of national statistical authorities in accordance with the european statistics code of practice established by regulation (ec) no 223/2009. in addition, the availability of sound budgetary data is also important for the monitoring of macroeconomic imbalances. this requirement should be ensured by the rules laid down in this respect by regulation (eu) no [.../...] on the effective application of budgetary surveillance in the euro area, in particular article 6a thereof.
in writing. − this report sets out objectives and principles for the processing and collection of economic statistics, in particular that their production be independent and separate from the political process, giving states responsibility for the accuracy and authenticity of statistical data. i am sure that this principle will make the results more certain and more accurate, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european commission has published a communication which aims to define a strategy to provide the european union with the framework for its management of the quality of statistics needed for enhanced economic policy coordination. in this respect, i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that a systemic approach to the quality of european statistics should be adopted, that greater proactivity in the management and evaluation of public finance data should be encouraged at an early primary stage and that greater statistical rigour should be emphasised at all levels of government. i also believe that eurostat should modernise the methods of producing european statistics in order to maintain cost-effectiveness and ensure that accounting and publication systems are uniformly established across the member states, with supervision through internal and external audit mechanisms. finally, i would like to stress the need to develop a coherent system for research into socioeconomic processes in crossborder areas, including the outermost regions, with a view to obtaining a reliable, complete and accurate economic framework for regional development.
in writing. − the report sets out the objectives and principles we advocate with regard to the processing and collection of economic statistics, namely that their production should be independent and separate from the political process, giving states responsibility for the accuracy and authenticity of statistical data. the report also mentions the need to safeguard the independence of statistical services from the threat of possible political intervention, both at national and european level. it is, however, true that several other premises of the report are totally contradictory to these principles, in particular when it says that statistics should produce the data that serve to monitor the results of economic governance and the six pack, which are nothing more than political guidelines associated with those who run the european institutions and the governments that defend them. we believe that statistical indicators should be based on a full knowledge of social and economic realities and should not be selected in order to pursue political objectives which are, moreover, totally contrary to the defence of the development of social progress.
mr president, the 2013 budget must be a budget for economic growth, employment and cohesion. i hope that the council will take a positive and realistic approach to this, so that it will make available sufficient funds for payment expenditure. the current multiannual financial framework is at cruising speed and entering its final phase. it would be unacceptable for cohesion policy funds in particular to not have sufficient amounts for the projects of the respective member states. the european union budget has an undeniable added value and should therefore be strengthened, especially in times of crisis. in this context, support for the implementation of specific measures, a reinforced budgetary effort to support competitiveness, innovation and smes is crucial, as they are the source of most of the european union's economic potential. finally, mr president, i am in favour of measures to promote youth employment and i would suggest that the money that will be left over from administrative expenditure, i.e. outside heading 5, should be used for smes and young people.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i have to start the debate on two related but different subjects. the first is the 2010 international cocoa agreement, for which the consent of the european parliament has been requested, and the second is a draft resolution on child labour in the cocoa sector. i am the rapporteur on the agreement for the committee on international trade and i am the author of the draft resolution which the committee on international trade is putting before the house. as regards the first, the committee on international trade unanimously proposes that parliament authorise the council to conclude the 2010 international cocoa agreement for three fundamental reasons: first, the agreement strengthens the capacity of the international cocoa organisation to act in this sector; second, the agreement provides greater clarity and transparency about how the organisation operates and increases the participation of civil society in the work of the organisation; and third, the international cocoa agreement introduces new provisions aimed at promoting good labour relations and a sustainable cocoa economy. the agreement requires the contracting parties to improve working conditions in accordance with the internationally recognised rules and principles of the international labour organisation. it also encourages the same contracting parties to promote the sustainable development of the cocoa economy and to implement programmes and projects aimed at achieving these objectives. as one of the largest importers of cocoa, the european union has an increased responsibility to ensure that cocoa production and trade are carried out in the most transparent and sustainable way possible. the international cocoa agreement, which is already provisionally in force, is our best ally in this respect. as regards the resolution to which i have referred, i believe that the issue of child labour in cocoa plantations is too serious to be ignored when we give our consent to the international cocoa agreement. that is why i proposed, and the committee on international trade adopted, the draft resolution expressing our concern at the continued use of child labour on cocoa plantations, particularly in west africa. the growing awareness of consumers and producers, as well as of policy makers, has, over the last ten years, led to the welcome mobilization of the international cocoa industry to work with all stakeholders, such as international institutions, trade unions and ngos, to eliminate at least the worst forms of child labour in cocoa production. still, there's a lot to do. children working in cocoa fields are exposed to serious health risks. there are no reliable data on the extent of the phenomenon. estimates range from tens of thousands to hundreds of thousands. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the issue of child labour must be addressed in a comprehensive way, involving policy makers, stakeholders and, of course, the union institutions. i look forward to hearing the commission's comments, to which we are putting concrete questions and for which we would like to have concrete and satisfactory proposals on how it thinks the union should respond to this question.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to thank everyone who took part in this debate and to thank the commission in particular for the final commitments on the fight against child labour. they are welcome, they are timely and we would like to tell the commission that we want to believe in them. i think it is important indeed to use our political strength to get these countries to ratify and effectively implement the ilo agreements on child labour; secondly, to use development programmes to gain sustainability gains in the cocoa sector; thirdly, to seriously explore the idea of traceability of cocoa so as to create a child label free cocoa which can be a means of affirming the importance of this material in cocoa production. i'd add one more theme. in the field of the union's international trade relations and international trade agreements, this matter cannot be absent. in the midst of the discussion of the epas (economic partnership agreements with the acp groups) - those involving cocoa-producing countries - i think this matter cannot be absent. the union therefore has a panoply, a set of tools which it cannot fail to use in a comprehensive, holistic way, including one which we omit but which i do not want to omit to mention, which is corporate social responsibility, which was also mentioned by the commissioner, and which i think is important, given that a large number of the main actors in this field are european companies. we would be very sorry if they too did not do their share of the work to combat this scourge.
i am very pleased that the commission has taken this initiative. these are, in fact, numbers of an epidemic. that is why i think it is justified to make a specific resolution on diabetes, especially since this is the first time that this parliament has dealt with this subject. it is the result of collective work, and it is work that does not undo the work done so far on chronic diseases, but rather reinforces it and reinforces this capacity that we have to intervene together. we have about 325,000 deaths a year associated with diabetes because we know that diabetes is the leading cause of, for example, heart attacks, blindness, amputations, vital organ failure. and given this data, we have two options, in my view. the first is to say that it's not that serious, that we can live with it and that each government can take care of itself. the second is to say that the absence of a european strategy in this area is part of the problem. i understand that we have a lot of work to do on this side. and we have a lot to do in early diagnosis, in coordination, in investment in research. that is why this resolution is a start and a joint effort in this direction.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, the economic and financial crisis in the european union has taken on different forms in the various member states. this reflects the differences and imbalances that exist, it reflects the inequalities that exist between member states. these inequalities are expressed in multiple dimensions. one of them concerns the ability to access and use community funds. the countries with the weakest economies, which need the most community funds, are also often the ones that have the most difficulty in accessing these funds. for years this was largely the result of restrictions on public investment imposed under the guise of the stability pact, which made it difficult to mobilise the required national effort. today, these restrictions are greatly aggravated by the imf and european union programmes under way in countries such as portugal, greece or ireland. the policy choices embodied in these programmes are leading these countries targeted for intervention and their peoples into a dramatic and deep economic recession, with a major destruction of part of their economic and social fabric, affecting both the capacity for private investment, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and public investment which is has been reduced, in some cases, to historically low levels. the coastal communities most dependent on fishing are not exempt from this general picture. the problem is compounded by the fact that in this particular case, to this general picture are added years of decline and disruption as a result of the specific developments that have taken place in this sector. the commission's proposal to increase community co-financing for these countries, and the corresponding reduction in national effort, has long been seen as a necessity. two years ago the european commission itself pointed to a serious under-implementation of the european fisheries fund. you've actually identified the causes of this underperformance. this proposal was therefore long overdue and unfortunately comes too late. the urgency of its adoption is therefore clear, and we consider it important that it be adopted at first reading. but we are not forgetting the limitations of the proposal, which are also obvious. i would like to mention a few of them here, and i hope that the commission will take them into account. we believe that the commission should assess to what extent this amendment actually provides the member states with the funds needed to support projects and to restore their economies, as stated in the commission's proposal. it should be noted that the restrictions on investment imposed by the assistance programmes may, under the new conditions, continue to make it difficult to mobilise the required national effort of 15% and 40% for the regions eligible and non-eligible respectively under the convergence objective. the commission should therefore, in our view, consider the need to remove restrictions on investment on the one hand, but also the possibility of further reducing national co-financing. it should also be stressed that the commission proposal does not increase the budget available to each country. the practical result of this option, as a result of the reduction in the national effort of these countries which are in greater difficulty, will be the channelling of a comparatively smaller overall amount of investment funds into the sector than was initially envisaged. the growth prospects opened up by investments in these member states will therefore be further reduced. once again, the principle of cohesion may be at stake, and the commission should therefore consider increasing the funds available to these countries. moreover, the rules for the clearance of government deficits should separate investment expenditure from other government expenditure, and not take account of the former, so as not to override the budgetary consolidation with economic growth, without which any consolidation would become unviable in the medium and long term. i would like to ask you, madam president, why the regulation laying down the financial measures for the implementation of the cfp was not included in the commission's proposal. this regulation finances very important areas, such as the collection of data and scientific advice, and the percentages of community co-financing in this area are generally low, at a maximum of 50%. why was this regulation and the measures it finances not also included in the commission proposal?
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, welcome to the commission. i welcome the european commission's proposal to establish more favourable conditions for member states in serious difficulties or threatened with such difficulties, linked to their financial stability, to be able to benefit effectively from the european fisheries fund. i also support the rapporteur in stressing the urgency of adopting this proposal at first reading. i think, however, that a little further could and should have been taken. i believe that there are two fundamental aspects to be taken into account in this context, which should not be separated. the first concerns all measures to facilitate an increase in the rate of implementation of the eff, and the second concerns the possibility of reviewing the priorities of the eff and even reprogramming it to make it more appropriate to the real needs of a specific time and place. only in this way will the fundamental objective of not only increasing execution rates but also optimising results, i.e. promoting reproductive investments, and ensuring an effective positive impact on fishing communities, be achieved. in this context, i would like to stress two main aspects which correspond to the two wishes that have just been expressed. firstly, the requirement to take into account the fact that each community may have specific needs to which the vet fund must be able to respond appropriately, such as the modernisation of vessels in terms of safety, hygiene, good environmental practices, and at this level particular emphasis on investment in environmentally friendly fishing gear and ever less polluting engines. these actions must be contemplated. the resolution recently adopted by parliament on the multifunctionality of fisheries and their capacity to produce public goods, which draws attention to the plurality of activities that fisheries give rise to and to the sharing of the benefits that fisheries produce by society as a whole, should also be taken into due consideration. the funds should therefore be flexible and broad-ranging.
member of the commission. - the mr president, i want to repeat what i said earlier, that what the commission is trying to do with this proposal is to meet an urgent need. this is an emergency measure. we are trying to help member states which are experiencing exceptional difficulties because of the economic crisis to reduce the proportion of national funding for the fisheries fund programmes. that should make it easier for them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. it is a relief, however, and we are trying to do so at a time when it is extremely difficult for some member states. the debate included some general remarks on the fisheries fund and in particular on the future structure of the fisheries fund, on the basis of the proposal we have made for the reform of the fisheries policy. i agree with many of the comments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we need to focus on actions that support sustainability, because it really makes no sense to give european taxpayers' money to finance a policy that does not lead to healthy fish stocks. the only way to raise fishermen's incomes is to have healthy fish stocks. i agree that we must give special support to coastal fishing and small fishermen. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. i want to make this clear because it is easy to say, for example, that the commission is to blame for the disappearance of small fishermen and for the fact that they receive only 4% of the quotas when there is a national allocation. we allocate quotas to each member state and then the internal allocation is based on the decisions of the national governments. i think that all of this must be taken into account in the debate we are going to have here on the new financial regulation for the next period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it simply speeds up the funding. we are not going to give additional resources to the member states, therefore - although some colleagues will not be worried. what we're doing is facilitating the acceleration of funding to help them through a difficult time.
the rapporteur. - mr president, a few very brief comments in the short time i have left. naturally, i would like to thank you for the comments and considerations that have been made on the report. i would first like to say - and the commissioner has just confirmed this - that we are not dealing with a test or a sign of solidarity. we are faced with a sign of flexibility, which unfortunately comes late, but it lacks that solidarity, which would only happen if there was an increase in the funds available to these member states, which is not happening. but it was important that the commission should consider this possibility. the commission's proposal, however, and i stress this again, does not guarantee the full use of the funds available. the amounts required for national financing are also 15% and 40%, depending on whether the regions are covered by the convergence objective or not. but apart from the problem of under-implementation of the european fisheries fund, and there have been several speeches on this, we are faced with another problem. in addition to measures to increase the rate of absorption of funds, we need to reorient the priorities of the fund itself. this has been mentioned in several speeches, and we share it fully. it is necessary to give guidance, not to forget that more than 50% of this fund has been used to cut down vessels, when we need to direct it towards productive activity, the renewal and modernisation of the fleet, the supporting infrastructure, the rejuvenation of the sector, job creation, vocational training, discriminating positively. and we agree, the small-scale coastal and artisanal fisheries sectors it is in this sense that we see with some concern the limitations that the future european fisheries and maritime fund places on some of these areas where it was necessary to stimulate this productive activity. a final word, mr president, on the amendments which have been tabled both in the council and by the ppe. in our view, these amendments are unnecessary and unjustified. we believe, however, that in view of the urgency of the adoption of this proposal, we should not oppose these amendments, because what is required is, in fact, that it be adopted as soon as possible.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, it is high time that parliament brought the existing legislation on the union's external trade policy into line with the new regime of delegated and implementing acts resulting from the lisbon treaty. and we recall what the treaty says: firstly, that the european commission can only have legislative powers by means of delegated acts, by decision and under the control of the two legislators of the union; secondly, that the executive power is normally vested in the commission and not in the council, under the control of the member states and not under the control of the council itself. in the case of the common foreign trade policy, it should be stressed that this is a policy, an exclusive competence of the union and no longer of the member states, and a policy which follows the community method, that is, the initiative of the commission, approval of the two legislators. and so we have to be particularly demanding in applying the new rules of the lisbon treaty, and that means two things: parliament must maintain full control over all the union's legislative production, so we have to qualify as delegated acts all cases where the commission is entrusted with supplementing or amending legislative acts of the union; secondly, in the case of implementing acts, we cannot allow member states to have a veto power over the commission's executive power, precisely because it is an exclusive competence of the union. the application of the examination procedure, which gives the member states a veto power over the commission's implementing powers, cannot therefore be the rule but the exception. let me end by congratulating the rapporteur, our colleague mrs quisthoudt-rowohl, on the excellent work she has done and on the spirit of compromise she has achieved in this report.
in writing. - i support the report because it is important to continue to support the economies most affected by the economic crisis. this report explains well the need to increase the funds allocated to hungary, romania, latvia, portugal, greece and ireland (and others which may in future require financial support programmes) under the european fisheries fund. the commission should maintain this measure for as long as these countries are under financial assistance programmes.
in writing. − in 2008, the council adopted a regulation (based on a commission proposal) in response to the crisis and its socioeconomic consequences. as part of this package, the regulation provides for a number of legislative changes with the aim of providing additional pre-financing through advance payments for eff programmes. the additional advance payments to member states gave an immediate cash injection of eur 293 million within the agreed financial envelope for the period 2007-13. the commission believes that additional measures are now needed to facilitate the management of community funds, to help accelerate investment in member states and regions and to improve the availability of finance for the economy, by proposing an increase in the intermediate payments from the european fisheries fund. this increase will not impose additional financial requirements on the overall budget, as the total financial allocation for the relevant period of the eff for countries and programmes will not change. in view of the amendments proposed by the rapporteur, this proposal will help the member states to make better use of the edf, and i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european fisheries fund because i welcome the european commission's proposal to support the member states most affected by the crisis in order to allow the continuation of the programmes under this fund.
in writing. - member states, including portugal, facing serious financial difficulties need particular support from the union so that their problems can be met not only by the determination of the people and governments affected but also by european cohesion and solidarity. in this regard, and in view of the particular difficulty and demands facing those states, the commission proposed amendments to council regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 on the european fisheries fund to facilitate better access to funding for those states. the urgency of this measure and the need for support which the states actually feel justify its immediate adoption. i hope that this support can give a new impetus to the sector.
in writing. the report under review, by mr joão ferreira, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1198/2006 on the european fisheries fund (eff) as regards certain provisions on financial management applicable to member states in serious difficulties or threatened with such difficulties relating to their financial stability. the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing has affected the coastal communities that are engaged in fishing activities in a particularly serious way. since it is not possible to increase the funds available - and i am convinced that more could have been done - i agree with the 10% increase in the cofinancing rate for countries in difficulty and with the other measures envisaged. this is an instrument which, in addition to improving the previous regulation from an environmental point of view, will help to consolidate the regional economy and to preserve fisheries resources. i therefore welcome the adoption of this report as an instrument to help the fishing communities in convergence regions, which are going through a period of great difficulty, and thus to help to mitigate the negative effects of the current economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - this proposal to amend the european fisheries fund (eff) regulation, as has already happened with other community funds such as the erdf and the esf, does not constitute any proof of eu solidarity. it is only a sign of flexibility. certainly necessary, but late and insufficient. the commission must therefore consider and respond to the reservations and suggestions we have made in the report, particularly as regards the need to increase the funds available to these countries. in addition to measures to facilitate a higher rate of absorption of the eff funds by the member states, a reorientation of the priorities of the eff itself is necessary, focusing it primarily on supporting productive activity and the development of coastal communities by supporting the rejuvenation of the sector; employment and vocational training; fleet renewal and modernisation and infrastructure supporting fishing activity. the amendments proposed by the council, under pressure from some countries such as germany, and which have also been included in this report, on the proposal of the epp, are in our view unnecessary and unjustified. we believe, however, that in the present situation it is necessary to adopt this proposal at first reading as a matter of urgency, despite its obvious limitations.
in writing. − the persistence of the financial and economic crisis is increasing pressure on national financial resources. in this context, i believe that ensuring the proper implementation of cohesion programmes is of particular importance as a means of injecting funds into the economy. however, liquidity problems resulting from budgetary constraints are hampering the implementation of the programmes, particularly in the member states most affected by the crisis. in order to ensure that these member states continue to implement european fisheries fund (eff) programmes on the ground and to disburse funds for projects, the commission proposal contains provisions which would increase the value of payments to these countries during the period in which they benefit from the support mechanisms. in particular, it is proposed to apply a supplement of 10 percentage points to the cofinancing rates applicable to the priority axis of the programmes in respect of expenditure certified anew and submitted during the period in question.
in writing. - in view of the current economic and financial crisis, increased community co-financing for countries facing the greatest difficulties, with a corresponding reduction in the national effort to use the funds, has long been seen as a necessity. the coastal communities most dependent on fishing are thus faced with a difficult situation, which is reflected both in the lack of private investment capacity (especially smes) and in the lack of public investment. in this connection, the commission's proposal is to be commended, which, in order to ensure that the member states continue to implement the european fisheries fund programmes on the ground, provides for the possibility of increasing the amount of payments to the countries facing the greatest difficulties. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − to ensure that member states continue to implement european fisheries fund (eff) programmes on the ground and to disburse funds for projects, the commission has moved forward with provisions to increase the value of payments to these countries during the period in which they benefit from support mechanisms linked to their financial stability. it is therefore proposed to apply a supplement of 10 percentage points to the cofinancing rates applicable to the priority axis of the programmes in respect of expenditure certified anew and submitted during the period in question. this increase will not create additional financial burdens for the overall budget, as the total financial allocation of the eff to the countries and programmes concerned during the period in question will not be changed. i consider this important and urgent measure and therefore voted in favour of parliament's position, which is based on the amendments tabled by the epp group, to which i belong.
in writing. - we agree with the measures proposed in the report: a higher rate of absorption of the eff funds by the member states, a reorientation of the priorities of the eff itself, directing it primarily towards support for productive activity and the development of coastal communities; support for the rejuvenation of the sector; employment and vocational training; the renewal and modernisation of the fleet and infrastructure supporting fishing activity. despite some of the limitations of the report, we consider the measures set out here to be urgent and decisive, and we therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of hormones in beef and veal. this solution is beneficial for european meat producers who can produce quality meat without unfair competition and at the same time increase their potential market.
in writing. the proposal aims to amend a proposal for a regulation opening a tariff quota for imports of high-quality beef from the united states and canada with a view to ending the long-running transatlantic dispute over meat hormones. the proposal for a regulation implements the measures contained in the memoranda of understanding signed with the united states and canada on the import of meat from animals not treated with certain growth promoting hormones. the solution to the trade dispute is for the eu to gradually increase the tariff quota for high-quality beef not treated with growth hormones, and the us and canada to gradually reduce or lift sanctions on eu products. i am voting in favour of this report because the adoption of this regulation by the european parliament and the council will bring mutual benefits, strengthen transatlantic trade links and re-establish confidence by improving market access on both sides of the atlantic.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the autonomous tariff quota for high-quality beef imports, as it includes proposals to end the dispute between the eu and the us and suspend sanctions on eu products, while ensuring that beef imports are made in accordance with strict eu standards.
in writing. − the eu/us/canada conflict over hormone-treated meat demonstrates the extent to which two trading blocs with similar references and concerns about food quality and safety can disagree in a lasting and counterproductive way for both. the length of the conflict and the severity of the sanctions have shown that it is in the interests of the community to seek a negotiated solution before taking excessive positions. the unilateral suspension of sanctions against the european union by the united states and canada is a positive sign which deserves an appropriate response by the eu adopting an autonomous tariff quota for imports of high-quality beef. that said, i believe that the union must not compromise when it considers that the safety of its citizens is at stake and must seek to make its partners aware of the need to adopt procedures and forms of consumer information which will enable consumers to be adequately and fully informed about the nature of the products they consume. i hope that the european union and the two american countries will continue to make efforts to integrate their economies more closely, which would greatly benefit both businesses and consumers.
in writing. - for more than two decades, the european union on the one hand and the united states of america and canada on the other have been involved in a dispute over hormones in meat, which has adversely affected transatlantic trade relations. the eu's ban on imports of beef and beef products treated with certain hormones, due to the need to protect consumers in terms of food safety, has been met by the us and canada with the imposition of customs duties on a number of european products. with the approval of the report by godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl, and consequent validation of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 617/2009 opening an autonomous tariff quota for imports of high-quality beef from the usa and canada, the above-mentioned dispute is over. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which not only deepens transatlantic trade relations but also suspends all sanctions against the eu on european products in trade terms.
in writing. - this report is based on the dispute over the ban on the importation of beef from the usa and canada treated with certain growth hormones, on the grounds of consumer protection and food safety. in order to put an end to the dispute, an agreement was reached providing for the gradual lifting of sanctions on eu agricultural products by the us and canada in exchange for an autonomous, duty-free tariff quota of high-quality non-hormone-treated beef. this opening of the european market to hormone-free beef is mainly due to the economic and trade pressure and threat from these two countries, and may have positive consequences for the export of various products from the eu, such as beef and pork products, which will benefit the major exporting countries. the sanctions imposed on european products are clear evidence of this. in addition to our concerns about the quality and food safety of meat from the usa and canada, given the known intensive and very intensive production methods used in these countries, we also have reservations about the consequences of opening this quota for the production of countries such as portugal.
in writing. the dispute over hormones in meat has adversely affected transatlantic trade relations in agricultural products for more than two decades. in 1988, the european union banned the import of beef and beef products treated with certain growth hormones for reasons of consumer protection and food safety. in 1996, the united states of america and canada challenged the ban under the wto dispute settlement system and were subsequently authorised to impose trade sanctions on agricultural products imported from the eu. since 1999, the united states and canada have imposed retaliatory customs duties on a wide range of european products, amounting to usd 116.8 million and cad 11.3 million annually, respectively. it should be noted that the final settlement of the dispute over hormones in meat should give a new impetus to the strengthening of economic and trade integration between the eu on the one hand and the united states and canada on the other. the adoption of this regulation by the european parliament and the council will result in mutual benefits, strengthen transatlantic trade links and restore confidence by improving market access.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the agreement is very important in that it encourages the production of european beef for export, thus making an important contribution to the agricultural sector, while protecting the consumer, because the increase in imports of american beef will be made without resorting to hormone-produced meat. the united states agreed to a complete suspension of all sanctions against the eu in may 2011 if the eu would honour its part of the agreement in a timely manner. if the agreement is not reciprocally implemented by the european union, we risk additional retaliatory measures by the united states, which must then be compensated for the damage caused by the non-compliance with wto rules.
in writing. − the present commitment by the eu, the united states and canada provides for the gradual lifting of sanctions imposed on eu agricultural products by the us and canada in exchange for an autonomous, duty-free tariff quota of high-quality non-hormone-treated beef. this agreement will help to strengthen transatlantic trade links, restore confidence and improve access to markets on both sides of the atlantic, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − over the past few years, the european union has been banning the import of beef and beef products, and the united states of america and canada have responded by introducing trade sanctions on agricultural products imported from europe. in 2009, the bilateral negotiations between the eu, the us and canada led to a solution for the removal of the barriers and the respective sanctions adopted. the talks eventually resulted in the conclusion of two memoranda of understanding. i agree with this report, which will enable the european union to respect the commitments it has made to the other countries concerned with a view to resolving the dispute. the mou will ensure that beef products imported under this quota will continue to meet the strict food safety requirements laid down in eu legislation. it should also be noted that the rapid adoption and entry into force of this regulation will contribute to strengthening transatlantic trade relations in this sector of economic activity.
in writing. - we remain concerned about the quality and food safety of meat from the usa and canada, given the known intensive and very intensive production methods used in these countries, but our concerns also concern the possible consequences of opening this quota for the production of countries such as portugal. we know that the opening up of beef imports could have positive consequences for the export of various products from the eu, such as beef and pig products, but it will mainly benefit the large exporting countries.
in writing. - i approve this report as omnibus i and omnibus ii, documents relating to the new systems of delegated and implementing acts that this report covers, aim to bring the european union's trade policy into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty. this is important because it strengthens the powers of the european parliament, which must therefore be respected, while it is politically important to keep parliament united around this wish.
in writing. - this is a very technical report, reflecting the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon in the union's common commercial policy, and seeking to amend certain regulations as regards the procedures for adopting certain measures. the report now adopted at first reading was not the subject of major divisions between the parliamentary groups, as its vote with only one vote against and two abstentions in the committee on international trade shows, and it is now being submitted to the european commission for examination. the amendments now proposed seek to make the trade policy of the european union (which has just become the european economic community) more effective and more efficient, and as a committed europeanist i cannot but strongly support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the amendments adopted by the european parliament contribute to a balanced position between the various legal instruments of the common commercial policy, taking into account the provisions imposed by the treaty of lisbon and the interests of the three european institutions.
in writing. - this proposal amends certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the procedures for adopting certain measures (omnibus i) and aims to adapt 26 regulations relating to the common commercial policy to the treaty of lisbon. this proposal for a commission regulation aims to replace the procedures for deciding on implementing measures established by 26 regulations by means of delegated or implementing acts. the regulations concerned are mainly regulations allowing the adoption of trade policy safeguard measures. the amendments are designed to make the commission's exercise of implementing powers more effective and efficient and to contribute to a better common commercial policy.
in writing. the report by mr godelieve quisthoudt-rowohl deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending certain regulations as regards the procedures for adopting certain measures relating to the common commercial policy. this is the adaptation of 26 regulations to the new primary law provisions of the lisbon treaty as regards the legal concept of delegated acts. until now, trade policy has been outside the comitology process, depending exclusively on council decisions. i welcome the progress made in this area, particularly with regard to the codecision procedure, because it is not acceptable that the council and the commission can decide without the prior agreement of the european parliament, which is responsible for monitoring these acts. in the case of implementing acts, i agree that member states cannot have a veto right in a general way, but only exceptionally. i regret that the united kingdom and ireland do not approve this regulation, which i voted for, which would contribute to a genuine free movement of people and goods throughout the eu and a more effective fight against commercial dumping.
in writing. the report aims to bring 26 regulations on the common commercial policy (cpc) into line with the lisbon treaty. the treaty provides that trade policy is an exclusive competence of the eu. following its entry into force and the adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011, the commission now has the exclusive power to implement the rules on trade policy. the definition of trading partners, trade and the objectives to which trade must be subject are an important instrument of economic sovereignty. the disposal of this sovereign instrument has, for example, resulted in very serious losses for portugal in numerous sectors of economic activity and for the country in general. trade policy has been directed towards maximising the profits of the large economic groups of the major eu powers, to the clear detriment of countries such as portugal and weaker sectors of economic activity, which have been exposed to fierce and destructive competition. free trade has been one of the main instruments of the ccp, guiding it towards a logic of capitalist competition rather than complementarity and mutual benefit. our profound disagreement with the cpc is therefore an assumption which we cannot fail to take into account in the analysis of this report.
in writing. - this proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the procedures for adopting certain measures (omnibus i) aims to adapt 26 regulations relating to the common commercial policy to the new primary law provisions of the treaty of lisbon. this is in particular to adapt the rules to the provisions of articles 290 and 291 tfeu and to the provisions of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council, as a consequence of article 291 (3) tfeu, laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. the report specifies the substance of the commission proposal for all 26 regulations, weighs the pros and cons of the use of delegated acts and implementing provisions and compares the advisory and examination procedures. the result is a balanced position between the various legal instruments, which takes into account the material and legal interests of all stakeholders, the legislation in force since 1 december 2009 and the institutional interests of the three european institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy. the aim is to adapt the rules laying down the general rules and principles governing the mechanisms for monitoring by the member states of the commission's implementing powers. the aim is to introduce the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon in this area, taking account of the material and legal interests of all those concerned and the institutional interests of the three european institutions.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and the adoption of regulation (eu) no 182/2011, executive decisions on trade policy, as in the case of other eu policy areas, are taken by the commission alone, either by delegated or implementing acts. this document thus aims to amend all regulations under this policy in order to promote an adaptation of the regulation to the provisions of the primary law of the lisbon treaty, in particular articles 290 and 291 tfeu. for these reasons i voted in favour of the european parliament's document.
in writing. - we consider that the definition of trading partners, trading relations and the objectives to which trade must be subject constitutes an important instrument of economic sovereignty. in the case of portugal, the lack of this sovereignty instrument has resulted in profound losses for numerous sectors of economic activity and, in general, for the country. trade policy has been directed towards maximising the profits of the large economic groups of the major eu powers, to the clear detriment of countries such as portugal and weaker sectors of economic activity, which have been exposed to fierce and destructive competition. we believe that trade relations should be based on the principle of complementarity and mutual benefit. this report is linked to the trade policy that the eu has been pursuing, which we strongly disagree with.
in writing. - i approve the report. but once again i reinforce my position that the budget of the european union must be focused on growth and not on austerity. the commission proposal keeps the european economy under severe austerity measures and what we should be concerned about is economic development, the promotion of growth and job creation. the s&d group has succeeded in introducing some of these objectives, but it is always important to stress that the commission cannot expect to implement the europe 2020 strategy without an ambitious budget.
in writing. − this report sets out the general guidelines for the 2013 budget as far as the commission is concerned. this report is of imminent political content in order to strengthen the promotion of growth and employment, with particular emphasis on the role of young people and small and mediumsized enterprises. it also aims to recognise the economic potential in the eu2020 strategy for growth, jobs and innovation. the european parliament is thus sending an important political message to the european institutions and the member states about its strong commitment to the objectives of growth and employment and to adequate financing of union policies. finally, i ask the union to show the same restraint and rigour as is required of the member states in developing and implementing the 2013 budget.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis is forcing not only most member states, but also the european parliament and the other institutions of the european union, to make a major effort to consolidate their budgets. the report under review, on the broad guidelines for the preparation of the 2013 budget section iii commission, reflects this concern, in particular the commission's desire to reduce the number of posts in its staff by 1% as early as 2013 and a 5% reduction in staff in all eu institutions and bodies by 2018. while it is understandable that administrative expenditure should be reduced in order to free up funds for investment projects that promote economic growth and job creation, such a reduction cannot call into question financial commitments in respect of payment expenditure, since despite austerity, the bills have to be paid. i welcome the adoption of this report, which points to a budget of rigour for 2013, but also of growth and cohesion, and i hope that it will be possible to release funds from heading 5 in order to increase the amounts for youth employment and support for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes).
in writing. − this report sets out general guidelines for the preparation of the 2013 budget. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud, and calls for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. the advocacy of greater political integration and the application of automatic sanctions to member states is also significant. some positive aspects which the report may contain do not erase or hide these deeply negative aspects. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − welcomes the fiscal consolidation efforts undertaken by most member states in the wake of the financial and budgetary crisis, but the eu will never be able to respond adequately to the current economic and social crisis and prevent future crises without greater political integration, without instruments such as automatic sanctions, and without the commission having the right to initiate legal action in a deficit procedure, but also without common eu-funded programmes and common resources to implement them. economic recovery requires measures to strengthen solidarity and promote sustainable growth and employment. the european council's recognition in its declaration of 30 january 2012 is thus important, but it insists on the need for concrete action, using, inter alia, the eu budget as a common instrument. i believe that the priorities set out in the above-mentioned declaration are precisely those which parliament has advocated in previous budgetary procedures. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of these general guidelines for the preparation of the 2013 budget, including the adoption of a responsible and results-oriented budget based on good quality of expenditure and the optimal and timely use of existing eu funding, as well as a well-coordinated and responsible budget for 2013.
in writing. − at a time when member states are making a great deal of effort to consolidate their budgets and to resolve the economic and financial crisis in europe, the 2013 eu budget is of particular importance. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider it essential that the budget of the european union is geared to the programmes and priorities defined in the 2007-2013 multiannual financial framework and that the normal budgetary adjustments should be made in the last programming year in order to make up for the backlog in terms of payments made. i believe that the austerity measures that have been designed and already taken must be accompanied by specifically targeted investments that lead to greater european added value, sustainable economic development and an improvement in the quality of life of citizens. finally, i share the concerns expressed in the declaration of the members of the european council of 30 january 2012, which stresses the need to invest in growth and jobs, particularly with regard to smes and young people.
in writing. - this document supports the so-called fiscal consolidation measures undertaken by most member states in the wake of the crisis, now reinforced by the treaty, decided outside the eu's rules of operation, entitled stability, coordination and governance, which aims to aggravate and perpetuate the so-called austerity measures that are currently plunging workers and peoples into poverty. the commission is also proposing greater political integration and the application of automatic sanctions to member states, a principle which is totally contrary to the spirit of solidarity. these are unacceptable aspects, which is why we voted against the report.
in writing. - i approve this decision. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud, and i am sure that the commission will take them into account in its proposals for the future. it is important to assess the impact of these activities in the european union and in each member state. i hope that this special committee will be able to advise the eu well on how best to act preventively and to combat these threats.
in writing. − organized crime is a threat to european society and the economy. the european union's fight against trafficking in human beings, drugs and arms, as well as economic and financial crime, money laundering and corruption, must be adapted to the complexity of the phenomenon. the threats posed by criminal organisations in the eu range from the misappropriation of public funds to the contamination of the legal economy and the financial system, etc. this motion for a resolution proposes the setting up of a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the commission will have a one-year mandate to investigate the contamination of the eu's legal economy, public administration and financial system by organised crime and to propose ways of combating it. i therefore support this proposal for a decision.
in writing. - a genuine area of freedom, security and justice can only exist if citizens can enjoy freedom of movement in the best possible conditions of security, which presupposes the existence of effective measures to prevent and combat crime and coordination and cooperation between the competent authorities at police and judicial level. the growing activity of criminal organisations has been expanding into numerous areas, ranging from drug and human trafficking, to financial crime, cybercrime, fraud, extortion, environmental crime and many others. organized crime is one of the main threats to internal security and the freedom of citizens, and i believe that the fight against this scourge should be at the top of the political priorities of the eu and the member states. i therefore support the creation of this special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, which i hope will be able to develop its analysis and propose appropriate measures to enable the eu to act preventively and combat these threats, thus sending a clear message at eu and international level to curb all forms of organised crime, and which is not confined to the italian reality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in favour of the creation of a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. during its mandate, the special committee will assess the impact of organised crime on the eu economy and society and make legislative recommendations to address these threats at international, european and national level.
in writing. - given the centrality of the issues of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, it seems appropriate to set up a special committee with the tasks set out in the proposal of the conference of presidents. i wish the commission and its members a good and fruitful job.
in writing. - the existence of a single market with free movement of persons and goods, with unquestionable advantages for european citizens, sometimes provides for the existence of criminal associations, corruption and/or money laundering. aware of this situation, on 25 october 2011 this parliament adopted a resolution on organised crime in the eu, in which it expressed its intention to set up a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. on 16 february 2012, the conference of presidents adopted the decision to propose the establishment of this special committee, defining its tasks and its numerical composition. because it is a question of creating a body to facilitate the full functioning of the rule of law throughout the eu, which will only benefit european citizens, i voted in favour of the creation of this special committee whose objectives are to analyse and assess the extent of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, as well as their consequences at eu and member state level, and to propose measures to enable the eu to prevent and combat this type of crime, both at national, international and european level.
in writing. - i agree with the creation of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, with the tasks defined here. given that the powers of parliament's standing committees with competence to adopt, monitor and implement union legislation in this area remain unchanged, we should give the special committee the power to make recommendations on the measures and initiatives to be taken in close cooperation with the standing committees.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this decision of the european parliament on the establishment of a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, taking into account that it is intended to analyse and assess the extent of organised crime, corruption and money laundering, as well as their impact on the union and its member states, with the aim of proposing appropriate measures to enable the union to act preventively and to combat these threats, including at international, european and national level.
in writing. - i welcome the establishment of this special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, and i hope that its mandate will be exercised with zeal and determination and that, under its aegis, measures and initiatives will be identified to combat these threats effectively.
in writing. − i support the decision of the conference of presidents to set up for 12 months, with a possibility of extension, a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, with the task of analysing and assessing the extent of organised crime, corruption and money laundering and their impact on the union and its member states, and proposing appropriate measures to enable the union to act preventively and to combat these threats, including at international, european and national level. this commission should, inter alia, analyse and assess the current implementation of union legislation on these issues and examine and scrutinise the implementation of the functions and activities of union agencies in these matters.
in writing. - i support this resolution because i believe that the creation of a european law academy, the adoption of a council decision establishing a european judicial training network, a reflection on the role of the national judge in the european judicial system and the development of a criminal justice area in the eu only benefit european citizens. anything that helps to improve the confidence of europeans in the area of justice is welcome.
in writing. − networking and training are becoming increasingly important in all sectors of activity. despite their national specificities, the justice sectors of the member states should not be left out of this trend. on the contrary, they should make use of the many technological tools currently available to them to more easily contact and enrich each other. the increased contact between judges from different countries and other professionals in the field of justice is a just and important objective which can have a very positive effect on the way justice is administered. it is nevertheless important to recognise the central role played by national legal systems, which should not be replaced by a single european legal order. the judicial traditions of the member states, the way in which their systems have evolved and adapted to the specific populations, constitute an important wealth which must not yield to the temptation to standardize and centralize.
in writing. the motion for a resolution follows on from the questions for oral answer tabled by mr klaus-heiner lehne and mr juan fernando lopez aguilar, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure. the continuous and systematic adoption of legislation by the european union, sometimes in conflict with national legislation, requires in-depth and continuous training for judges, officials and judicial officers. articles 81 and 82 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provide for the adoption of measures to support the training of legal professionals. it is therefore essential to create the conditions for judicial training for all those who have to combine european law with national legal systems, a sine qua non for the proper functioning of a european judicial area. i therefore welcome the resolution now adopted, which i voted in favour of, and i hope that its objectives of providing training for some 700 000 legal professionals by the year 2020 will be achieved.
in writing. - this report contains some specific questions on changes in judicial training. it should be read in the context of developments in the judicial field in the integration process and, in particular, those which are taking place or are planned under the stockholm programme. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. the vacuity, and even the caricature, of some of the report's proposals, such as the development of apps in the sense of being similar in interaction and availability to apple's itunes, should not make us forget the framework behind it. the aim is to coordinate the training of judges with a view to harmonising the law and creating a european area of justice in accordance with the criteria of the stockholm programme. for these reasons, we did not support this report.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this european parliament resolution on judicial training. identifying needs and suggesting improvements in eu legal training practices, creating a common judicial culture among members of the judiciary, promoting core values in the profession by discussing a common professional ethic, avoiding the politicization of the judiciary, promoting the necessary mutual trust are key factors in making the common judicial area a reality. i welcome the pilot projects presented in this resolution, and i am sure that the future of legal education in europe will increasingly be characterized by high standards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on judicial training by, among other proposals, approving the initiative to hold an annual forum where judges with different levels of experience in areas of law where cross-border issues frequently arise, meet to discuss, establish contacts, create channels of communication and build a basis of mutual trust and understanding. this forum could also be an opportunity for competent authorities, training providers and experts, including universities and professional bodies, to discuss judicial training policy and the future of legal education in europe.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to create a common judicial area by providing more and better training in community law. despite all the difficulties, notably linguistic and financial, this project has immense potential, which is reflected both in the use of new technologies and in the promotion of the study of comparative and international law, as well as in better linguistic training for judges. i voted in favour of this report because it could be a very important step towards creating a european legal culture.
in writing. − the european judicial area must be based on a shared judicial culture among legal practitioners, judges, including prosecutors, and not just on eu law. this culture should also be developed through mutual recognition and understanding of national judicial systems, a thorough review of university curricula, exchanges, study visits and joint training. i consider it necessary to create networks between judges from different cultures and to improve the coordination of existing networks, and it is essential to coordinate the training provided by existing judicial training schools, facilitating and promoting dialogue and professional contacts. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report on judicial training is part of the stockholm programme, which aims to build a european area of justice, which we consider to be a strong attack on one of the central issues of the sovereignty of states - justice. the aim of harmonizing the law is clearly seen in the following text: the expansion of joint actions in the field of police and judicial cooperation and cooperation between secret services, as well as the introduction of an internal security strategy and new measures for data exchange in the eu, are at the expense of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of all those residing in eu countries. "matters relating to law and justice must be unconditionally linked to the history, reality and will of each member state, and we therefore reject any attempt to standardise them.
in writing. - i support this resolution, as it is necessary to continue the fight against the exploitation of child labour throughout the world. as such, i welcome all initiatives that seek to involve potential stakeholders - governments, industry, producers and civil society - in order to eradicate child labour, improve the lives of children and adults working on cocoa farms and ensure that cocoa is grown responsibly. this is in line with the recent initiative by the oecd, the secretariat of the sahel and west africa club and the international cocoa initiative, which promotes best practice in combating child labour on cocoa farms in west africa. it is important that these initiatives are properly monitored in order to see genuine progress.
in writing. − according to the international labour organisation's estimates, more than 215 million children worldwide are victims of child labour and are engaged in activities that should be abolished. children who are victims of child labour, in addition to not having access to education, are often victims of maltreatment, physical and psychological violence, abuse by supervisors, co-workers, etc. although progress has been made in recent years in programmes and initiatives to combat the worst forms of child labour on cocoa farms in west africa, much remains to be done. the present motion for a resolution, which i support, strongly condemns the use of child labour in cocoa fields.
in writing. - it is intolerable that in the 21st century there are still more than 200 million child labour victims, of whom more than 100 million are subject to the worst forms of child labour, some of them as young as 5 years old and the vast majority under 15 years old. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. the exploitation and trafficking of children in cocoa plantations is undoubtedly a matter of concern and must be taken into due account in the ep's decision to approve the new international cocoa agreement. the eu has a major responsibility to ensure that any trade agreement contains effective provisions on poverty reduction and the promotion of decent and safe working conditions, as well as legally binding clauses protecting internationally agreed human rights and providing for effective and dissuasive sanctions. it is also important to involve the various stakeholders, governments, industry, producers and civil society in the adoption of the necessary measures and actions to eradicate child labour by ensuring that cocoa is grown in a dignified and responsible manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in favour of the creation of appropriate legislation to address the root causes of child labour and to analyse these and other related issues. child labour is not an isolated issue, it results from tradition, poverty, lack of alternative income sources, lack of opportunities for young people and, essentially, inadequate legal protection of children's rights.
in writing. − it is recognised by the eu that poverty and outdated farming techniques, but also and above all child labour, are widespread features of the cocoa sector. as the world's largest importer and consumer of cocoa, and home to the largest chocolate processors and manufacturers, the eu has and should absolutely take responsibility for making this sector more sustainable. numerous reports reveal that cocoa farmers continue to use child labour on their farms. although much child labour is carried out within the family, the situation is worrying and therefore urgently needs to be addressed.
in writing. - according to the international labour organisation, more than 215 million children worldwide are victims of child labour, of whom 115 million are engaged in tasks considered dangerous. the majority of these situations occur in the so-called developing countries, and to put an end to this scourge it is essential to eradicate the situations of poverty that give rise to it. the motion for a resolution tabled by mr vital moreira on behalf of the committee on international trade, pursuant to rule 110 (2), deals with child labour in the cocoa sector. 70% of the world's cocoa production is in west africa and some 7.5 million people are employed there, the vast majority on family farms, making it easier to use child labour in a society where there are no alternatives to wealth creation and no opportunities for young people outside of school. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the primary right of children is education and their place in school. this is the only way to end poverty in societies that consider child labor as just another source of resources.
in writing. the resolution's main objective is to draw attention to and condemn the use of child labour in cocoa fields and all forms of child labour. the resolution is a roll of good intentions and good practice in the fight against child labour. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of workers' rights and the protection of the environment. it is concealed, however, that many of the clauses complained of in some agreements are merely a dead letter, never put into practice and always relegated to the background in favour of business and profit. the real reasons for the use of child labour are not focused here. in particular, the socioeconomic conditions of the farmers and workers on these cocoa plantations. the resolution makes pertinent findings concerning the pressure to reduce labour costs in cocoa fields. but unfortunately, few solutions are put forward to counteract these pressures and to promote the necessary increase in the wages of these workers.
in writing. - following the international cocoa agreement, the european parliament, while acknowledging the importance of this sector, does not dismiss one of the major problems associated with it: child exploitation. as the european union is the world's largest consumer of chocolate, this resolution is of considerable importance, as it is intended to implement measures to achieve greater sustainability in the sector and also to raise awareness among all those involved of the problem of child labour, which unfortunately still occurs in this and other sectors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on child labour because it strongly condemns the use of child labour in cocoa fields. child labour is one of the most dramatic forms of violation of children's rights, which jeopardizes not only their future but also the future of the community to which they belong.
in writing. − at a time when the european parliament is called upon to approve the 2010 international cocoa conclusion, it is curious that a status report is being made here on initiatives to combat the worst forms of child labour on cocoa farms in west africa. in this respect, it must be recognized that, although progress has been made, much remains to be done. it should therefore stress the need for the authorities to assume their responsibilities in the fight against the trafficking of children and all forms of forced child labour and to promote the full implementation of the un convention on the rights of the child and the relevant ilo conventions. similarly, initiatives tending to involve the various actors - governments, industry, producers and civil society - aiming at eradicating child labour, improving the lives of children and adults working on cocoa farms and ensuring that cocoa is grown in a responsible manner should be welcomed.
in writing. − in the process of approving the 2010 cocoa agreement, knowing its importance for the producing countries, i voted in favour. however, i leave my concern about reports of the use of child labour subject to inhuman conditions in the production and harvesting of cocoa beans. it is therefore necessary that this issue be seriously discussed within the cocoa ilo and that answers be found to combat it. all stakeholders, from national governments to businesses, civil society, exporting countries and non-governmental organisations, should be involved in the process to raise awareness of this issue. finally, if the practice by a company and/or the state is systematic, we should not rule out the possibility of imposing sanctions on it.
in writing. - this resolution makes important findings concerning the pressure to reduce labour costs in the cocoa fields, but does not put forward solutions to counteract these pressures and to promote the necessary increase in the wages of these workers. the main reasons for the use of labour are the difficult socioeconomic conditions of the farmers and workers on these cocoa plantations. we believe, however, that it is important to be alert to the use of child labour in cocoa fields and condemn it, as well as all forms of child labour.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe that the international cocoa agreement can be an opportunity to address the issue of child labour. it is important that the different actors in the fight against child labour develop a strategy that enables them to identify the roots of this problem. the european union can and must play a vital role, because when it adopts its policies it can also use them to deal with the problem. one of the immediate solutions is for the commission to try to trace goods that are produced through child labour.
in writing. - since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, all agreements in areas covered by the ordinary legislative procedure are subject to the approval of the european parliament. this is the case with the eu's common trade policy, of which the 2010 cocoa agreement is an integral part. this international cocoa agreement 2010 replaces the 2001 agreement and aims to create conditions for fairer and more sustainable world cocoa trade through enhanced international cooperation between producers and consumers within the framework of the international cocoa organisation. improve market transparency by promoting the role of the international cocoa organisation in the collection, processing and distribution of data and its cooperation with industry and ngos. this new agreement sets clear objectives aimed at a sustainable cocoa economy, recognising the importance of economic viability and social and environmental responsibility at all stages of the value chain. it also recognises the need to ensure fair prices for cocoa and fair incomes, as well as to promote cocoa quality and develop food safety procedures. i therefore support this recommendation for parliament to approve this agreement.
in writing. − the 2010 international cocoa agreement is of major importance in the context of international trade and the global cocoa economy. the agreement is valid for 10 years, so it is essential that there is an appropriate space for discussion of all cocoa-related issues between the signatory governments as well as with the private sector. the 2010 international cocoa agreement is fundamental to the viability and development of cocoa producing countries, contributing to the sustainability of these economies by facilitating fair prices that allow for equitable revenues for producers and consumers and ultimately promoting the transparency of the global cocoa economy.
in writing. the recommendation under consideration, drafted by vital moreira, concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion by the european union of the 2010 international cocoa agreement. the conclusion of this agreement has been delayed due to the large-scale use of child labour in this sector. 70% of the world's cocoa production is in west africa and some 7.5 million people are employed there, the vast majority on family farms, making it easier to use child labour in a society where there are no alternatives to wealth creation and no opportunities for young people outside of school. most of the chocolate consumed in europe is produced by child labour. the eu is a stronghold of values, including human rights and children's rights in particular, and cannot establish commercial links with organisations or countries that exploit child labour. i voted in favour of this resolution because it not only strongly condemns the use of child labour in cocoa fields but also calls on the governments of the countries concerned to ratify and/or comply with the un convention on the rights of the child and the ilo conventions.
in writing. − the international cocoa agreement 2010 will replace the 2001 agreement, which in turn replaced the 1993 agreement. the first was established in 1972. the eu is party to this agreement. the stated objectives of this new agreement are: to promote international cooperation within the world cocoa economy; to contribute to the strengthening of the national cocoa economies of the member countries; to seek fair prices that will provide equitable revenues for producers and consumers; to advocate the removal of barriers to trade; to promote and encourage the consumption of chocolate and cocoa products and to encourage members to improve the quality of cocoa. without prejudice to the positive aspects associated with this multilateral forum, it is worth highlighting a background finding. in the various forms that this agreement has taken over the years, it has always been based on a vision - and a reality! - of an international division of labour that is profoundly unfavourable to developing countries, seen as mere producers and exporters of cheap raw materials, prevented from progressing in the value chain of the sector and keeping economies highly dependent and poorly diversified. the defence of free trade in the objectives of the agreement does not help to alter this fundamental view, but rather reinforces it.
in writing. − the new agreement, which replaces the 2001 agreement, aims to: promote international cooperation within the world cocoa economy; provide an appropriate forum for discussion of all cocoa-related issues between governments as well as with the private sector; contribute to strengthening the national cocoa economies of the member countries; seek fair prices that provide equitable revenues for producers and consumers; encourage an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy; promote transparency in the world cocoa economy through the collection, analysis and dissemination of relevant statistical data and the conduct of appropriate studies; advocate the elimination of trade barriers; promote and encourage the consumption of chocolate and cocoa products; and encourage members to improve the quality of cocoa. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, all agreements in areas covered by the ordinary legislative procedure are subject to the approval of the european parliament. this is the case with the eu's common commercial policy, of which the 2010 cocoa agreement is an integral part.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this new agreement on cocoa, which has as its main objectives the promotion of international cooperation within the world cocoa economy, through an appropriate forum for the discussion of all cocoa-related issues between governments as well as with the private sector, thus contributing to the strengthening of the national cocoa economies of the member countries. these measures are intended to achieve fair prices that allow for equitable revenues for producers as well as consumers, to encourage an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy and to promote transparency in the global cocoa economy.
in writing. − as part of the eu's common commercial policy, this document aims to make the cocoa sector fairer, more transparent and more sustainable. this sector, which is the livelihood of 50 million people worldwide, is essential to the eu's own economy, as the european chocolate industry is the largest in the world. the promotion of international cooperation within the world economy in this sector, the elimination of trade barriers and the promotion of an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable cocoa economy are some of the objectives set out in this agreement, the achievement of which deserves my support.
in writing. − the 2010 cocoa agreement, which replaces the 2001 cocoa agreement and was adopted in 2010 at the un cocoa conference, brings together the main cocoa producing and consuming countries of which the eu is a member. the aim of this agreement is to create fair, equitable and sustainable conditions for world trade in cocoa by strengthening international cooperation within the international cocoa organisation, which is strengthening its powers under this agreement. i am voting in favour of the agreement because i think it is important to establish rules and rethink strategies for this sector, on which 50 million people depend for their livelihoods.
in writing. - while we believe that there are a number of positive aspects associated with this international agreement, which has been in place for several years, we would like to make it clear that it has always been based on an international division of labour which is profoundly unfavourable to developing countries, seen as mere producers and exporters of cheap raw materials, prevented from progressing in the value chain of the sector and keeping economies highly dependent and poorly diversified. it was important, in order to counteract the strengthening of this path, that free trade was not advocated, as is done, in the objectives of the agreement.
in writing. - i support this motion for a resolution which provides, among other things, for a european diabetes strategy, which i consider to be of the utmost importance, because it allows for the collection and management of data on the epidemiology of diabetes, the coordination of european research on diabetes and also advances in the field of diagnosis, education and prevention. this initiative is fully justified, given that some 32 million europeans suffer from this disease and the number is continuing to increase, including in ever younger generations.
in writing. - diabetes is the most common of the non-communicable diseases, affecting more than 32 million citizens of the european union - about 10% of the total population - with the significant increase in this disease in children and young people in portugal being of particular concern. type 2 diabetes reduces life expectancy by 5-10 years and type 1 diabetes reduces life expectancy by about 20 years, and overall is responsible for 325 000 deaths annually. in most member states, the implications of diabetes account for more than 10% of health expenditure. reducing risk factors such as habits and lifestyles is increasingly critical to achieving incidence reduction. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the measures it contains will make a positive contribution to the prevention and reduction of the incidence of diabetes among the citizens.
in writing. − diabetes is the most common of the non-communicable diseases, affecting more than 32 million eu citizens, or about 10% of the total eu population, with the increase in children and young people in portugal being of particular concern. type 2 diabetes reduces life expectancy by 5-10 years and type 1 diabetes reduces life expectancy by about 20 years, and is responsible for 325 000 deaths annually in the eu as a whole. the participation of people with diabetes in their own care accounts for 95% of the total, with consequences for the psychosocial level and the quality of life of the families. reducing risk factors such as lifestyle habits is increasingly critical to achieving a reduction in the incidence of diabetes. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the measures it contains will make a positive contribution to the prevention and reduction of the incidence of diabetes among the general public.
in writing. − diabetes is the most common of the non-communicable diseases, affecting more than 32 million eu citizens, or about 10% of the total population, and its current progressive trend is of particular concern. in the case of portugal, there is also a significant increase in its incidence in children and young people. unfortunately, the participation of people with diabetes in their own care accounts for 95% of all people with the disease, with obvious consequences for psychosocial and their own quality of life. as a doctor and a legislator, i believe that prevention is essential, not just research. and not just for diabetes, but for other diseases of the same kind like hypertension and cardiovascular disease. it is therefore essential that member states, with the support of the commission, develop, implement and monitor national programmes for diabetes, aimed at health promotion, reduction of risk factors, prediction, prevention, early diagnosis and treatment of diabetes, which also aim at reducing inequalities and optimising resources. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the measures it contains can make a positive contribution to reducing the incidence of diabetes in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on tackling the diabetes epidemic in the eu, as it defends the need for the eu to develop a strategy to tackle diabetes, including, among other things, the collection and management of epidemiological data, cooperation in research, early diagnosis and prevention campaigns.
in writing. − according to the world health organisation, 86% of deaths in europe are caused by non-communicable diseases, with diabetes being among the most common. while it cannot be said lightly that this is a behavioural disease, the truth is that it is associated with unhealthy lifestyle habits - tobacco, poor diet, lack of physical activity and alcohol. it is therefore urgent to develop sectoral policies that contribute to the prevention of diabetes and to avoid its complications and the economic and social costs of this disease. it is therefore up to the states, and the union can play an important role in this respect, to reduce the prevalence, if not the prevalence, at least the mortality associated with diabetes. this must be done not only through prevention - coupled with campaigns to promote healthier lifestyles - but also through a very serious focus on the early diagnosis, detection and treatment of diabetes, factors which we know are essential to reducing its mortality.
in writing. - the joint motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (4) of the rules of procedure, replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the s&d, alde, ppe and gue/ngl groups, deals with the urgent measures needed to reduce the epidemic of diabetes in the european union. the increase in life expectancy in recent decades has led to an increase in the number of people with chronic diseases, which pose a major challenge to patients, families and society. diabetes is the fourth most common chronic disease and has a financial impact on national health budgets of about 10%. more than 30 million europeans are affected by this disease. while current therapies do not stop its progression, the modus operandi has to go through early diagnosis and prevention. besides, obviously, a bet on the investigation. in fact, type 2 diabetes can be prevented by a balanced diet and exercise. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i believe that the measures proposed will lead to a significant reduction in the incidence of diabetes, allowing citizens to have a better quality of life and a significant reduction in the cost of their treatment.
in writing. − diabetes is the most common of the non-communicable diseases, estimated to affect over 32 million people in the european union, and set to increase by around 16.6% by 2030, as a consequence of the obesity epidemic and ageing populations. this resolution provides important data for the characterisation of the reality of this disease in the eu and points out paths with which we agree, in particular with regard to prevention at various levels, the improvement and promotion of research and the collection of data on diabetes. however, we believe that it is necessary to defend in this context the importance of public health services, especially in primary care, in the fight against and prevention of this and many other diseases, which the resolution unfortunately does not do as it should. the resolution considers the need to collect economic data based on the direct and indirect costs of disease prevention and management, an approach which, in the known concrete framework of advancing privatisation pressures in the health sector, cannot but raise some concern.
in writing. − diabetes is the most common of the non-communicable diseases, estimated to affect over 32 million eu citizens, or about 10% of the total eu population. in addition, an equal number of people suffer from glucose intolerance, which is very likely to progress to clinically manifested diabetes. unfortunately, these numbers could increase by 16.6% by 2030 as a result of the obesity epidemic, the ageing of the european population and other factors yet to be determined. it is known that type 2 diabetes reduces life expectancy by 5-10 years and type 1 diabetes reduces life expectancy by about 20 years, with diabetes being responsible for 325 000 deaths per year in the eu, or one citizen every two minutes. it is increasingly recognised that reducing risk factors, including lifestyle habits, is a key prevention strategy to reduce the incidence, prevalence and complications of type 1 and type 2 diabetes. the aspects covered in this motion for a resolution are therefore essential to combating the diabetes epidemic effectively.
in writing. - diabetes is the most common of the non-communicable diseases, affecting more than 32 million citizens of the european union, i.e. about 10% of the total population, accounting for more than 10% of health expenditure and being of particular concern in the case of portugal with its significantly increased incidence among children and young people. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the measures it contains will make a positive contribution to the prevention and reduction of the incidence of diabetes in citizens, in particular through a policy of reducing risk factors such as lifestyle changes.
in writing. − diabetes is the most common of the non-communicable diseases, estimated to affect over 32 million eu citizens, or about 10% of the total eu population. in order to reduce the incidence of the disease, it is therefore necessary to adopt a strategy for prevention, diagnosis and management and to take advantage of new research technologies. however, the most important role lies with the people themselves, since they must take on responsible behaviour. improved dietary habits and increased physical activity are essential in this area.
in writing. − diabetes is the most common non-communicable disease in the european union, affecting more than 32 million people, causing around 325 000 deaths annually and estimated to grow by 16.6% by 2030. i support this motion for a resolution which aims to encourage the creation of a specific strategy for diabetes in the european union, to develop common criteria and standard methods for the collection of data on diabetes and to promote national programmes to improve health and reduce risk factors. it should be noted that a fruitful exchange of good practice on the programmes set up by the various member states should be promoted and the european commission should continuously monitor the progress made in implementing the national plans for diabetes.
in writing. − diabetes is estimated to affect more than 32 million people in the european union, and is set to increase by some 16.6% by 2030, as a consequence of the obesity epidemic and ageing populations. we are obviously in agreement with measures on prevention at various levels, improving and promoting research and data collection on diabetes. we believe that in the fight against diabetes it is essential to defend the maintenance and strengthening of public health services, accessible to all the population regardless of their economic status, in particular at the level of primary care, which have effective results in terms of prevention. this fundamental concern is not reflected in this resolution.
in writing. − i welcome this report, noting the high degree of alignment of the country with the eu's common positions in the field of foreign policy. this behavior is important because it encourages the country to establish good relations with its neighbors. the demarcation of its border with kosovo in 2009 led to a closer relationship between the two parties and led to the conclusion of an agreement on joint border controls in september 2011.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the council should make efforts to set a date for the opening of accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, taking into account the latest recommendations of the european commission.
in writing. − despite the many challenges still ahead, the progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia towards its integration into the european union is undeniable, and i would like to stress this. at a time when new ways of collectively responding to the problems that affect us as a political and economic community are being devised, it is reassuring to see that the european project remains appealing to our neighbours who are not giving up on adapting their institutions to it. i am not unaware of the problems that the designation of this country presents for our greek partners and the obstacle that it represents for future accession. i hope that there will be common sense and understanding between the two, in accordance with international law, so that when the time comes and all the criteria for accession are met, this will not be an insurmountable obstacle.
in writing. − the eu, which started with six countries, is continuing its enlargement process, mainly eastwards, with croatia's accession planned for june 2013. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is a key country in the region, a key player in the peace process in bosnia and herzegovina and a candidate since 2005. the eu has been following the reforms carried out by the government in the framework of the implementation of democracy and respect for minorities. first steps have been taken to solve the problem of corruption, there is a new approach towards montenegro, more transparency in the electoral process and a market economy is beginning to develop. i welcome the progress made and hope that the problem of the denomination will be resolved very soon in the framework of the united nations. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this country has the conditions for the accession process to move forward, which is very important for good neighbourly relations and for the peace process in the balkan region. the future of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is in the european union and i hope that it will happen as soon as possible.
in writing. - as in other republics of the former yugoslavia, the situation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom) is unstable and a destabilising factor for the region in which it is situated. the problem of the country's designation, which is a source of conflict with greece, is still there, in a process surrounded by nationalist rhetoric which, instead of bringing these two peoples closer together, is driving them apart. the majority of this parliament's position, in wanting to speed up the date for the start of negotiations, disrespects the sovereignty of both countries, only contributing to exacerbating existing divisions and cleavages. the majority of parliament justifies this position by the interest of the jra's accession to nato, a process inseparable from the militarisation of the eu and the enlargement of its spheres of influence in the strategic region of the balkans. the accession to the eu is a process of sovereign decision by each people, as is the path to economic and social development. it should be up to each people to decide freely, without interference and on the basis of a free, informed and in-depth debate, based on reality and not on mythical ideas, never confirmed in reality, about eu membership.
in writing. − the commission confirms in its 2011-12 enlargement strategy that enlargement policy has proved to be a powerful tool for transforming society and that commitment, compliance with the conditions laid down and credibility are the cornerstones of the accession process and its success. the jam was one of the first countries in the region to be granted the status of candidate country for accession, it has the highest domestic public support for eu accession and it has just received a positive recommendation from the european commission to set a date for the opening of accession negotiations for three consecutive years. i therefore believe that it would be beneficial for the parties to start the negotiation process for the former yugoslav republic of macedonia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2011 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, which welcomes the progress made by that country towards closer relations with the european union.
in writing. − in recent times, macedonia has been making a major effort to modernise itself in a wide range of sectors. this development, both economic and social, has been illustrated by reasonable economic performance, the fight against corruption, better protection of fundamental rights, and the adoption of reforms to make its judicial system more efficient. the eu's recognition of this balkan country in the context of its enlargement policies is to be welcomed.
in writing. − the eu's commitment at the thessaloniki council in 2003 to the respective accession of the countries of the western balkans region was reinforced in the 2011 progress report to start accession negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia (fyrom). the dispute with greece at the un over the designation of mray should not create obstacles to the process of integration of mray into the eu, as this country is committed to the implementation of the eu acquis and the second phase of the stabilisation and association agreement. on the other hand, arjm has been performing well economically, while showing certain weaknesses in terms of judicial independence, impartiality of the administration, challenges to unemployment and high poverty rates. i also stress the 40 places jump in the corruption perceptions index over the last five years, and the efforts made by the government to resolve inter-ethnic conflicts and the need for more policies that target the whole population, without discrimination against their ethnicity. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the eu has a key role to play in ensuring that the reforms in the jha continue.
in writing. - as in other republics of the former yugoslavia, the situation in the fry is unstable and a destabilising factor for the whole region. the negotiations with greece on the country's designation are still ongoing, in a process surrounded by a nationalist rhetoric which, instead of bringing people together, is driving them apart. the majority of the ep's position, to want to accelerate the date for the start of the negotiations, is disrespectful to the sovereignty of the peoples of both countries and only contributes to exacerbating existing divisions and cleavages. the majority of meps support the position of the arjm in the interest of its accession to nato, a process that is inseparable from the militarisation of the eu and the enlargement of its spheres of influence in the strategic region of the balkans. the eu accession is a process of sovereign decision of each people, as is the right to economic and social development. it should be up to each people to make their own decisions, without any outside interference and on the basis of a free and in-depth debate based on reality and not on myths that have never been confirmed - as the case of portugal proves - around eu accession.
in writing. - i approve the proposal for iceland to become a full member of the european union. it is important, however, to stress that in view of recent developments in this country, in particular the mobilisations against political power, i hope that this manifestation of the country's will to join will reflect the will of the people.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i welcome the prospect of iceland, a country with a long and historically strong democratic tradition and civic culture, becoming a new eu member state. the progress made by iceland in the accession process and the opening of eleven negotiating chapters and the provisional closure of eight of these chapters in the accession negotiations should be highlighted.
in writing. - in the face of a deep financial crisis, there appears to have been an icelandic push to join the european union. it is undeniable that iceland is a european country with a rich history and high standards of democracy, transparency and respect for human rights and the rule of law. it fulfils the copenhagen criteria and therefore its eventual accession does not raise the same problems as those facing other applicant states.
in writing. − the eu, which started with six countries, is continuing its enlargement process, mainly eastwards, with croatia's accession planned for june 2013. the report in question deals with the enlargement of the eu to iceland, a former danish territory which, interestingly, holds the eu presidency. on 5 december 2011, the european parliament recommended that progress be made in the negotiations on iceland's accession. it is a country that has already joined the single market and the schengen area, with a highly professional administration, with a successful financial recovery process, as evidenced by the reclassification by the rating agencies, and a team very committed to the progress of integration. there are still some unresolved issues, especially in the fisheries sector, but in other areas, such as the transposition of eu directives, it is proving more efficient than many member states. i voted in favour because it is essential that the ep shows its determination to integrate iceland, not least because it does not represent any financial burden for the eu, and i hope that the icelandic people will understand the advantages of adopting the euro over the canadian dollar or the yen.
in writing. − iceland, a founding member of nato, has a geostrategic position of great importance, largely due to its proximity to the arctic - an area over which a dispute develops over sovereignty over the region's untapped natural resources, particularly oil and gas. the majority in this parliament, as is customary in similar cases, is trying to push the political parties and the icelandic government to accept neoliberal policies and options. it is precisely the neoliberal recipe that has led to the serious crisis that iceland is facing and that, like what is happening in the eu, is causing serious social consequences. the report calls for economic reforms by the icelandic authorities, the abolition of capital controls, the opening up of the energy, air transport and fisheries industries, rejecting any measures to protect its economy and workers. once again, the concerns of the majority of this parliament and the ideological principles that shape them are evident. the position of the big banks in the uk and the netherlands is telling, welcoming the start of payment to creditors, ignoring their responsibilities in the crisis and passing the responsibility for their payment on to the icelandic workers and people.
in writing. − iceland, which already meets the copenhagen criteria, started its accession negotiations on 27 july 2010, following approval by the council. the analytical examination of the eu acquis is almost complete. eight chapters have so far been opened and provisionally closed in the accession negotiations (chapter 2 - freedom of movement for workers, chapter 6 - company law, chapter 7 - intellectual property legislation, chapter 20 - enterprise and industrial policy, chapter 21 - trans-european networks, chapter 23 - judiciary and fundamental rights, chapter 25 - science and research, chapter 26 - education and culture), and three others have been opened (chapter 5 - public procurement, chapter 10 - information society and social media and chapter 33 - financial and budgetary provisions). iceland already cooperates closely with the eu as a member of the european economic area (eea), the schengen agreements and the dublin ii regulation and has therefore already adopted a significant part of the acquis. i therefore believe that the enlargement process in iceland, a country with a long and strong democratic tradition and civic culture from a historical point of view, is on the right track.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the 2011 follow-up report on iceland. i did so because i believe that the close historical ties between iceland and northern europe and the successful euro-atlantic cooperation of more than 60 years ago, as well as the fact that iceland's accession represents the integration of a state with a long and historically strong democratic tradition and civic culture, are in themselves an enrichment for the european union. the report also shows that a significant percentage of icelanders are in favour of continuing the accession negotiations.
in writing. − iceland's desire to join the european union is not surprising, as it already cooperates closely with the eu as a member of the european economic area (eea), the schengen agreements and the dublin ii regulation. it has therefore adopted a large part of the acquis communautaire. a country with a consolidated democratic tradition and a historically strong civic culture will always be welcome to join the current europe of 27.
in writing. − following the declaration of bankruptcy in october 2008, leading to the fall of the icelandic government and the implementation of a set of institutional and economic reforms and the implementation of an economic recovery programme with the imf in 2010, accession negotiations were opened. the entry of a country into the eu is dependent on the application of the copenhagen criteria. in this case, iceland and the eu have already closed 8 out of 11 negotiating chapters already opened. however, iceland is a special case, as it already cooperates with the eu as a member of the eea, the schengen agreements, the dublin ii regulation and also cooperates in peacekeeping and crisis management operations. on the other hand, there are improvements in the economic sector and a slight recovery in gdp. i would also like to mention the public support for the accession process, which is fundamental for the integration of society into the eu area, after the full implementation of the copenhagen criteria, the political and economic criteria and the acquis communautaire.
in writing. - this report is another example of the inseparability of eu and nato enlargements. the eu wants to reach out to iceland, a founding member of nato and a country with an important geostrategic position due to its proximity to the arctic and the dispute over sovereignty over the region's untapped natural resources, particularly oil and gas. the majority of the ep uses this report to put pressure on the icelandic political parties and the government to accept the neoliberal recipe which has led to the serious crisis facing this country and which is generating very serious social consequences. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. the concerns of this majority are clear when they side with the big banks in the uk and the netherlands, welcoming the start of payment to creditors, ignoring the responsibilities in the crisis and passing the responsibility for their payment on to the icelandic people. the people of this country have been an example of remarkable combativeness in the struggle to defend their sovereignty and in the refusal of social regression.
in writing. - i approve this report. in any case, bosnia must consistently express its desire to join the european union. the structures of the state must reflect the existence of a single, undivided country, not least because this only benefits its citizens, who must also fully understand the benefits of its european integration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that, despite the limited progress made by bosnia-herzegovina as a candidate country for accession to the european union, progress on the path towards eu integration is possible with the right determination, political responsibility and through a culture of commitment.
in writing. − a country marked by a civil war that left deep wounds in its population and which is still trying to rebuild its social fabric and establish a free and peaceful multiethnic society deserves the support and close scrutiny of all european countries. we cannot fail to recall what sadly happened there and the delay in europe's response to the violence. the political impasse that has recently been overcome gives hope for the future, but it also shows the extent to which ethnic fractures remain, as well as the difficulties felt in returning to democratic coexistence and normality. the european union must follow developments in bosnia-herzegovina and support the country in the long and painful reconstruction effort that lies ahead.
in writing. − the creation of a europe as a single area of free movement of people and goods will only be achieved when all european countries have joined the european union, fulfilling the dream of the father of europe, robert schuman. the report analyses the enlargement of the eu to bosnia and herzegovina. this process of integration is fundamental to the pacification of the balkan region, but it is proceeding at a very slow pace. the marks of the armed conflict are still felt, as all have lost relatives. the inauguration of a new government gives some indication of openness, as evidenced by the establishment of good neighbourly relations with serbia and efforts to resolve border disputes. in addition, cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia in the readiness to respond to requests made by that tribunal. there are, however, serious issues to be resolved, such as corruption, education reform, the ban on kosovo citizens from entering its territory where they have relatives, etc. i voted in favour of this report because it is essential that the ep shows its openness to the progress of the integration process, especially as politicians have already realised that they are missing the train of europe.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the deaths of civilians and civilians from being killed in the war. the majority of parliament supports the strengthened position of the eu special representative and the continuation of the eu military operation, eufor althea, rather than advocating the end of his mandate. instead of helping to heal the wounds that remain open, the majority in this parliament is fuelling a situation of permanent instability, the same as that which has been experienced throughout the region since the break-up of yugoslavia. membership of the eu must be the sovereign decision of each people. a people whose sovereignty is severely limited, as is the case with the people of bosnia-herzegovina, will be strongly conditioned by a free decision on such eventual accession.
in writing. − the european union remains strongly committed to a sovereign and united bosnia and herzegovina, as accelerating the country's progress towards eu accession is one of the eu's underlying political objectives to contribute to improving the quality of life for all citizens. however, this progress requires functioning institutions at all levels and the commitment of the country's political leadership. i believe that the future of bosnia and herzegovina lies in the european union and the prospect of eu membership is one of the most unifying elements for the people of the country. the main responsibility for the success of the eu accession process lies with this potential candidate and the preparatory work should be carried out mainly by those who are elected by the citizens, in line with a common shared vision on the country's huge political, economic and social problems. bosnia-herzegovina can only join the eu as a unified country, so any kind of division will only cloud its path to membership. it is therefore for bosnia and herzegovina to implement the necessary measures to achieve the objectives necessary for full eu membership.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the 2011 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina, as i consider that political dialogue between the european parliament and the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina contributes to closer eu-bosnia-herzegovina ties and to a healthy and lasting neighbourhood policy.
in writing. - the accession of bosnia to the eu is essential for bringing this region of the balkans closer to the eu. however, there are some obstacles to overcome, such as the poor functioning of the judicial system, the increasing corruption in the state apparatus, the high unemployment rate and the difficulty in cooperating with other countries in the region, in particular kosovo. on the other hand, since we are dealing with a multiethnic society, there is a need for strong coordination between the various players so that their ability to speak in unison is strengthened. in this regard, this report is of the utmost importance, given the objective of accelerating the country's progress towards eu accession.
in writing. − the eu should continue its support for the consolidation of the territorial, social and economic cohesion of bosnia and herzegovina through the reinforcement of its presence, including through the creation of a representative, and the technical and expert support it has provided through the eu police mission. the structural problems affecting this country, which was ravaged by the yugoslav war and is still suffering the disastrous consequences of it, are many. high rates of corruption, mistrust and lack of a central public administration that simultaneously gives autonomy to local authorities, a cohesive and representative government of all bosnian citizens, respect for difference in a multiethnic society, cooperation with the icty, low rates of economic growth and high unemployment rates, lack of independence of the judiciary are some of the problems facing society. the european union is also calling on the government of bosnia and herzegovina to take all necessary steps to ensure that the country is able to comply with the international obligations it has entered into.
in writing. the european parliament has called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's external relations are not jeopardised by the threat of a war in bosnia and herzegovina. the eu's position on the eu's military operation eufor althea is that it is a matter of principle and that the eu should be able to take action to prevent the eu from being involved in the conflict. instead of helping to heal the wounds that remain open, the ep majority is fuelling the permanent instability that has been experienced throughout the region since the break-up of yugoslavia. the eu membership must be a decision of the individual peoples. a people without sovereignty - and the people of bosnia-herzegovina do not have it - will have heavily conditioned the decision on its accession.
in writing. the criticisms made in this motion for a resolution of the results of the presidential elections in russia only demonstrate once again that the european union has two weights and two measures. it is a fact that, during the various suspicions of electoral fraud in the 1996 presidential elections, neither the eu nor the us failed to praise russian democracy and the election of the candidate they liked - boris iletsin. the russian government has demonstrated a certain economic and political independence and defended its national wealth, particularly energy, and defended the role of the state in certain strategic sectors. more recently, russia's veto in the un security council of military intervention in syria has led the us and the eu to see their expansionist ambitions blocked. the question that concerns the eu and the us is not the defence of democracy but their desire for russia to have a government that is more responsive to their interests. we would also like the eu to take a stand on other issues, such as the defence of the rights of strikers and social and labour rights. this is the subject which does not seem to concern the european union very much.
mr president, the tragedy of 16 december in janaozen is a cause for concern because of the number of people killed and injured in the violent repression, but also because of the difficulty in obtaining clear data on what really happened. the investigation launched by president nazarbayev will only be credible if it includes an international component that assesses the facts in an independent and impartial manner, listening to all those involved, including protesters, relatives of the victims, reporters, police and civil society. an investigation to establish the authorities' responsibility, including the alleged torture of detained protesters. the clashes in janaozen come amid a growing wave of government oppression against the independent press, opposition political parties and civil society. the european union must remind the authorities in kazakhstan that the new cooperation agreement, however strategic the economic and military interests involved, cannot be advanced without credible political reforms that will make the democratic rule of law in this country possible. the reforms must include the release of human rights defenders and political prisoners, such as vladimir kozlov, who was detained after a visit to the european parliament and whose wife is currently being threatened and intimidated for seeking to defend her husband's rights. he must be released as soon as possible and, at the very least, he must be allowed the visit of his wife and lawyers of his choice. his health is a concern. the european external action service should continue to follow this and other cases, linking the negotiations of the future cooperation agreement to the release of political prisoners and effective progress in respecting media freedom, labour rights and other basic human rights such as the right to an independent justice.
madam president, piracy is a serious problem, but it is not the only one, nor the most serious, off the horn of africa. to combat it effectively, the european union must build a comprehensive strategy for the region. this implies attacking the source of piracy, which is not located at sea but on land. it is the lack of a state, of governance, of representative institutions that defend the interests of the somali people. it is because of its lack of integration into such a strategy that operation atalanta, despite its importance as a naval mission in the csdp framework, is unable to achieve its objectives. worse, piracy became sophisticated and rampant, and al-shabaab grew, armed and radicalized. atalanta's primary mandate is to protect international shipping along the somali coast. but what does the european union do about the many other maritime crimes committed by foreign vessels in the same waters, from illegal fishing to dumping of toxic waste? what information does brussels have on this subject, sent by atalanta over the three years it has been operating, in compliance with its mandate also on this subject on fishing within 200 miles of the somali coast? can this data be provided to this parliament? has the european union submitted this data to the un and asked the security council to take it into account? somalia and the region need a strengthened and concerted political, diplomatic, economic and military effort on the ground, and not just at sea involving the un, the african union, the united states, the european union, india, china and other powers, but focused on the concept of human security in order to meet the survival and development needs of the somali people, which are at the core of the piracy industry. an effort that produces results in the building of representative institutions in somalia, which are clearly no more than the artificial tfg supported by invading troops from neighbouring ethiopia, and an effort that does not continue to neglect the potential for governance that can be expanded from the autonomous areas of puntland and somaliland, with which the european union has to work. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).)
blue-card answer. – madam president, i do not think that private security firms are the solution, but the eu, i would agree, can be. this is not a problem that can be solved overnight. it is a problem that has existed since at least 2005. the eu should have an autonomous strategy for somalia. if we look at how much money we have spent in the whole operation and at the results, including in fighting piracy, these are quite limited, because our objectives cannot be achieved until the core question of the governance in somalia is addressed. the effort is too big for the eu alone. it has to act in concert with others in the international community. how much money could have been saved, though, if something more meaningful had been done for governance in somalia. nothing has been done so far. our strategy has been to follow the us totally in a very non-critical way. that is why we are where we are and unhappy with the results, including in fighting piracy and hostage taking. until we address the question of the governance in somalia – and not with a fake institution like the tfg, the transitional government – we will not improve the situation for ships passing through those waters.
madam president, it is clear that the problem of maritime piracy must be tackled. however, under the pretext of combating maritime piracy, imperialist plans for controlling international waters, controlling geostrategically important regions, for gaining access to natural resources or controlling their flow, as may be the danger in the case of the horn of africa, must not be put into practice. what is decisive in combating maritime piracy is to combat the causes associated with it, namely to combat the poverty to which the peoples of the african countries have been voted in the framework of the capitalist system, which has always used these countries to supply the central countries with raw materials at low cost. what is needed is a genuine development policy which respects the sovereignty of these countries and peoples. what is needed is the rejection of the militarization of the european union, respect for international law, the charter of the united nations, the principles of sovereignty and non-interference, and the development of more equitable and fairer international economic relations.
madam president, commissioner, maritime piracy is today a phenomenon that is becoming more widespread and frequent, more organized and profitable, more audacious and violent, to which no vessel seems to be immune, from fishing boats and merchant ships to yachts and cruise ships. there are 1,500 pirates operating off the coast of somalia alone. the safety and freedom of persons are seriously affected, all maritime activities and the economy suffer enormous losses, in addition to the costs of rescues, insurance, diversion, pursuit, etc. in 2012 alone, there were 22 reported robberies, and in february alone, somali pirates captured 17 vessels and took 251 hostages. in 2009, the commission systematised its action in two stages: prevention, deterrence and repression, and also tackling the causes of piracy. but it persists and grows, which requires reinforced action by both the commission and the member states. the commission should extend its military action beyond 2012 and step up its diplomatic action to obtain effective cooperation from third countries hosting pirates. the member states will have to make efforts both in the field of criminal investigation, especially as regards the tracing of ransom money, and in the legal field, especially as regards the establishment of conditions for the trial of pirates. these concerted actions by the commission and the member states, but also with other countries and regions of the world, are urgently needed to restore safety on the seas, which, as far as fishing is concerned, affects both industrial fleets and small local vessels, affecting the economy of the european union, but also the livelihood of local communities, worsening their poverty and throwing the population into piracy, in a cycle that is intensifying successively and which must be cut off once and for all.
for the gue/ngl group i would like to give an example. in portugal, with public funds and european money, we have managed to ensure that today there is 98% coverage in water supply and 90% coverage in sanitation. this investment was paid for by portuguese and european taxpayers, and now what is going to be done is to privatize water in portugal. why do i bring this example to this house? because it is the clear example of what we are doing wrong in the field of water - whether in portugal, in europe or in the world. we're treating water like a commodity. well, water is a public good, not a business. water is a scarce commodity, it's not a competitive commodity. water should be for everyone, not just those who can afford it. water and water resources are for conservation, not for disruption or contamination. water is a right - that's it, it's a fundamental human right. and trying to make a profit from water is as reasonable as starting to sell air in plastic bags. it's not reasonable. there are millions of people in the world without access to water.
mr president, in july 2010, at the culmination of a long battle, the united nations general assembly adopted a resolution recognizing the right to safe drinking water and sanitation as a human right essential to the full enjoyment of life and all human rights. the resolution calls on states and international organisations to step up efforts to provide safe, affordable and accessible drinking water and sanitation for all people. it was not easy to secure the adoption of this text. it is no coincidence that some countries, including some member states, initially vetoed it, but then abstained in the final vote. it is that the un text is strong and clear, while others prefer the partial and ambiguous approach that gives way to the multimillion-dollar water and sanitation businesses. the effective guarantee of the right to water and sanitation is irrevocably confronted with the greed of the water transnational cartel. the effective guarantee of this right requires public ownership and management of this precious commons.
mr president, it is essential to discuss the quality and quantity of water and the impacts of climate change which are already being felt in rainfall levels. in my country, portugal, at the end of february, 68% of the territory was in severe drought and 32% in extreme drought - a calamity. droughts and floods kill more people than any other natural disaster. the so-called water crisis, both in terms of quantity and quality, is also the result of abuses, and not just of natural causes. the problem is also one of management. the un itself recognizes the need to develop ethically sound water management systems. europe continues to waste about 50% of its water due to inefficiencies. water is a public good, but scarce, which should be accessible to all at fair prices. it is not a commodity subject to speculation. we must reduce consumption and combat waste... (the president cut the speaker off)
in writing. - i approve this report. on the one hand, the objective of achieving a low-carbon economy by 2050 will help to tackle the main problems posed by climate change. on the other hand, it is an opportunity for the economy, as it is an added value for the eu to focus on a globally efficient and innovative knowledge economy, meeting the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050, because developing a low-greenhouse-gas economy is key to responding to the challenges of climate change, but also to strengthening the competitiveness of the european economy itself and creating more jobs.
in writing. − at a time when the debate on greenhouse gas emissions has become unavoidable and when maintaining the current energy dependence on oil and its derivatives is unsustainable, it is important that more environmentally friendly and equally reliable energy alternatives are found. it is also essential that europe finds, within the eu2020 strategy, innovative ways to promote sustainable and greener growth. the 2010 data are not encouraging, however, with a 6% increase in carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. it is therefore urgent to ensure the development of a low-carbon economy which is nonetheless competitive and does not harm the already weakened european economy. we cannot set ourselves such high emission targets that they create conditions of unfair competition with the rest of the world and undermine european competitiveness.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to introduce a new directive on the protection of the environment by the use of radioactive substances. correction of errors in the functioning of the emissions trading system, in particular as a result of their capture (and distortion) by the financial system. drawing the right conclusions from the terrible experience of fukushima about the uncontrolled risks of the nuclear option, which should not be the easy way out of the fight against carbon emissions. the final result of the vote does not, in my view, meet either of those objectives, and i therefore vote against it.
in writing. - this report is a paradigmatic example of the mercantilist approach that has presided over the much-touted transition to a low-carbon economy. the reaffirmation of the belief in emissions trading, despite its widely demonstrated perversity and ineffectiveness, the excessive focus on the issue of energy sources without giving due attention to consumption patterns and the underlying economic model are some of the most obvious shortcomings and weaknesses of this report. issues such as current production and trade models, free trade and its impacts on the delocalisation of production vis-à-vis consumption, and on energy consumption flows and patterns are insufficiently addressed. in the field of transport, for example, the defence of a modern, efficient public transport system with wide coverage and low prices for the population - in contrast to what is currently being done, for example, in portugal under the eu-imf programme - gives way to the market, liberalisation and charges in the various modes of transport. the focus on individual transport (which is certainly to the liking of the car industry), the defence of the single european sky and the inclusion of the sector in the emissions trading scheme are illustrative examples of the approach that inspires the whole report.
in writing. - the debate on emissions of polluting gases is becoming increasingly important, but we cannot continue to be hostages to our energy dependence on oil and its derivatives. we must therefore find energy alternatives that are more environmentally friendly and equally reliable. europe is obliged to find, by taking advantage of the eu2020 strategy, innovative ways to promote economic growth without further affecting the environment. however, data from 2010 tells us that there was a 6% increase in carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. however, as this report points out, europe is responsible for only 11% of global co2 emissions and our actions in isolation are not enough to stop the process of increasing co2 emissions. this has to be a joint effort by all the powers, particularly the brics, which are increasingly responsible for co2 emissions. what is required of all is the development of a low-carbon economy which is still competitive and does not harm the european economy, which is currently very weakened by the world crisis. on the other hand, we cannot demand of ourselves what others do not fulfil, and thereby lose our competitiveness on world markets.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on a roadmap for the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 because it has the ambition of a europe with cutting-edge, high-tech industry and highly skilled professionals who create the products we need using fewer resources and emitting less co2 in manufacturing them. the measures presented in this report contribute to a genuine green economy.
in writing. - this roadmap for the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050, presented by the european commission, deserves my applause. although it will require a large investment in sectors such as green technologies and transport, infrastructure (e.g. smart electricity grids) and environmental protection, this programme will always be a long-term added value. it is our responsibility to take the lead in reducing co2 emissions, even if our actions alone are not enough to stop the warming process. we must therefore aim for a high-tech, high-end industry in europe with highly qualified professionals who create the products we need, using fewer resources and emitting less co2. finally, there is a need to review the emissions trading system so that prices recover to the levels envisaged when the legislation was adopted and to avoid the so-called carbon leakage, i.e. the possibility for some companies to leave europe to avoid higher costs resulting from measures taken to reduce co2 emissions.
in writing. − the european commission has published a communication entitled roadmap for the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 which aims to define new public policies that will allow specific targets to be reached for reducing internal energy emissions by 40%, 60% and 80% respectively by 2030, 2040 and 2050. i support this report because i believe that climate change is a long-term determinant of economic and social well-being and that coherent action is required at eu level and at the international political level. in order to pursue an integrated approach in the area of renewable energy and climate change for the period 2014-2020, i consider it essential to establish a strong synergy between the structural funds from cohesion policy and the new research and innovation programme called horizon 2020. i would also like to emphasize the financial attention that must be given to the outermost regions, since they need to make substantial investments to achieve greater energy efficiency.
in writing. - once again, we are faced with a market approach in the so-called transition to a low-carbon economy. this report does not sufficiently address issues such as current production and trade patterns, free trade and its impacts on the relocation of production in relation to consumption, and on energy consumption flows and patterns. some examples of this mercantilist approach can be found in the focus on individual transport, the defence of the single european sky and the inclusion of the sector in the emissions trading scheme.
in writing. - i approve this report in the light of the recent events in the netherlands, where the freedom party has set up a website encouraging citizens to complain about migrants, and i strongly urge prime minister mark rutte, on behalf of the dutch government, to condemn this deplorable initiative and to distance himself from it. this situation should be used to highlight the obligation of all governments in the european union to guarantee the rights of free movement and non-discrimination, and it is therefore important that the european council also formally condemns the initiative of the party for freedom, as it constitutes an affront to european values and principles. enlargement has had a positive impact on european economies and has made a significant contribution to sustained economic growth in the eu, including in the netherlands.
in writing. − the european construction is based on the principles of free movement of citizens, including free movement of workers, who enjoy protection against discrimination on grounds of nationality, race or ethnic origin. member states are thus obliged to ensure that all eu citizens can live and work in europe without being subject to any discrimination. in early february, the dutch freedom party (pvv) launched an open online hotline calling for people to file complaints arising from the mass labour migration of central and eastern european citizens, openly inciting discrimination against eu workers from central and eastern european countries and undermining freedom of movement. the present resolution, which i have supported, calls on the dutch prime minister to condemn this initiative and to distance himself from it, and urges the european council to formally condemn the line taken by the pvv, as it constitutes an affront to european values and principles. calls on the commission and the council to make every effort to stop the spread of xenophobic attitudes and to ensure the effective implementation of the framework decision on racism and xenophobia in all member states.
in writing. the dutch pvv's open line on the internet openly incites discrimination against eu workers from central and eastern european countries. i believe that this website calls into question the fundamental european values of human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights. i do not understand the silence of the dutch government, which should have condemned this initiative already, justifying the fact that it was one of the founding member states of the eu, founded on a set of fundamental values, including the protection of human dignity, non-discrimination, tolerance, pluralism, solidarity and justice. the economic and political climate of recent years cannot serve as an excuse to fuel the growing resurgence of radicalisation and xenophobic extremism that has been gaining momentum in western europe over the past decade through personified speeches against, among other issues, immigration and multiculturalism, using social media, using the internet and online tools (so-called digital populism) as a bridge to stimulate hatred and racist sentiments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it strongly condemns the content of the website launched by the dutch political party pvv. i consider that the information on this website goes against the fundamental european values of human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and contributes to denigrating the principles on which the european union itself is founded.
in writing. - the public role of the internet and the way it influences not only everyday life but also mass movements, political initiatives and communication strategies is now undeniable. while i share the view that the day-to-day use and management of the network should be left to the private sector, i believe that the states cannot avoid having a present and active regulatory role, aimed above all at preventing abuses and violations of citizens' rights, as may be the case with the dutch sites which call for discrimination on grounds of nationality.
in writing. − the dutch far-right pvv party, which is part of the governing coalition, has set up a website where it asks citizens to complain about the massive labour migration of citizens from eastern and central europe, in particular poles, romanians and bulgarians. the resolution condemns this attitude, calls on the dutch prime minister to condemn and distance himself from this act, calls for a formal condemnation of the website by the european commission and calls on the dutch authorities not to turn a blind eye to pvv policies which it considers to be in contradiction with the eu's fundamental rights. in fact, we are facing something very serious, namely the advance of xenophobic and far-right forces in the eu. this is inseparable from the crisis of capitalism, the failure of eu policies and their dramatic social consequences. if criticism and condemnation become imperative, we must not forget that they must also include the policies that create the culture of ideology. both of them must definitely be destined for the dustbin of history.
in writing. - i supported the resolution in question, which condemns the pvv website, which attacks the fundamental values on which europe was founded. the incitement of hatred and racist sentiments is something to be repudiated. the dutch government's silence is incomprehensible, and it creates the certainty that the states must play an active regulatory role in order to prevent violations of fundamental values such as human dignity, freedom and equality, by enforcing respect for fundamental rights and by ensuring that the very foundations on which the union was founded are respected: pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice and solidarity.
in writing. - this european parliament resolution on discriminatory websites and government measures is the european parliament's reaction to a website of the party for freedom (pvv) in the netherlands containing xenophobic statements. i voted in favour of this resolution because i also consider it necessary to stop the dissemination of xenophobic attitudes such as those expressed on this website. i support the call on the council to ensure that the framework decision on racism and xenophobia is effectively implemented in all member states.
in writing. − the launch of an open internet hotline calling on people to submit complaints arising from the mass labour migration of central and eastern european citizens, promoted by the party for freedom (pvv) in the netherlands, is a direct affront to the fundamental values and principles on which the eu is based and should therefore be strongly repudiated and publicly condemned. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution and joined the call to the dutch government to officially condemn this deplorable and malicious initiative.
in writing. − the party for freedom in the netherlands (pvv) has launched a website for citizens to complain about the excessive labour emigration of people from central and eastern europe, in particular from poland, romania and bulgaria. however, according to article 21 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, every citizen of the union has the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states, subject to the limitations and conditions laid down in the treaties and in the measures adopted for the implementation thereof. i agree with this statement which strongly condemns the pvv's actions and calls for the dutch government and the european commission to intervene in the resolution of this xenophobic attitude by a political party.
in writing. - europe has experienced tragic consequences for its peoples with the rise and history of nazism and fascism. we cannot tolerate those who do not accept freedom, we cannot accept the retaliation of xenophobic, racist, discriminatory and pro-fascist political positions which call into question democratic freedoms and democratic rights. in this sense, we think it is important to condemn the website that the pvv has created, in which it calls for public condemnations of what they call mass labor migration. it is important that we defend freedom and democracy and not go back to the times when fascism, in order to justify the crisis of capitalism, made the apology of ethnic discrimination and xenophobia.
in writing. - i support this resolution. it is the duty of president medvedev to make his words match his deeds and to ensure that the necessary reforms in the political system are adopted. to move in this direction means, for example, adopting the necessary simplification of the rules governing the registration of political parties, and making a serious commitment to resolving the problems of freedom of the press, of assembly and of expression. in these matters, the eu should show willingness to cooperate with russia to improve respect for human and fundamental rights. for this to happen, first of all, a constructive dialogue must be provided between the russian authorities and the political parties represented and the pro-democracy opposition in defence of comprehensive reform, transparency and democracy. in this regard, it would be appropriate for president-elect vladimir putin to moderate his rhetoric against the protesters and to start a sincere dialogue with them about the future of the country.
in writing. - the eu, as a strategic partner and neighbour of russia, has followed with particular interest the electoral process and public debate, as well as the ongoing widespread protests in connection with the elections last december and the presidential elections on 4 march. the russian people have demonstrated through demonstrations that they aspire to more democracy and to a reform of the electoral system. the existence of shortcomings and irregularities in the preparation and conduct of these elections and the fact that the choice of voters was limited are to be criticised. it is therefore important to ensure the commitment of the russian authorities to the adoption of the necessary reforms of the political system, by welcoming the much needed simplification of the rules governing the registration of political parties, as well as a serious commitment to respect for freedom of the press and of expression. it is in this sense that the eu expresses its willingness to cooperate with russia to improve respect for fundamental human rights as well as the effectiveness of an independent rule of law system in russia. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the measures it contains will contribute to greater transparency and respect for democratic principles.
in writing. - the eu, as a strategic partner and direct neighbour of russia, has been following the electoral process and public debate, as well as the widespread protests during the elections last december and the presidential elections held on 4 march. the protesters have shown that they aspire to more democracy and a deep reform of the electoral system. the existence of shortcomings and irregularities in the preparation and conduct of the presidential elections and the fact that the electorate's choice was limited must be strongly criticised. it is therefore important to ensure the commitment of the russian authorities to the necessary reforms of the political system, including the much needed simplification of the rules governing the registration of political parties, and a serious commitment to respect for freedom of the press and of expression. it is in this context that the eu expresses its willingness to cooperate with russia to improve respect for human and fundamental rights and the effectiveness of an independent rule of law system in russia. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the measures it contains will contribute to greater transparency and respect for democratic principles by all.
in writing. - unlike the council, the european parliament does not hide behind convenience and interests and is clear about what has happened in russia. the existence of shortcomings and irregularities in the preparation and conduct of the presidential elections and the fact that the choice of voters was limited must be strongly criticised. all international observers have pointed it out without any doubt. the russian people have demonstrated their desire for greater democracy and a thorough reform of the electoral system. it is therefore important to ensure the commitment of the russian authorities to the necessary reforms of the political system, including the much needed simplification of the rules governing the registration of political parties, as well as a serious commitment to respect for freedom of the press and of expression. equally critical is the fact that the russian authorities are violently suppressing all demonstrations against electoral fraud.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the russian authorities and the political parties represented in the duma must promote a constructive dialogue with the pro-democracy protesters and opposition in defence of comprehensive reform, transparency and democracy in the russian federation.
in writing. − the presidential elections in russia have made clear the centrality of vladimir putin's role in shaping the country's destiny, confirming the secondary role that had been attributed by many observers to former president medvedev. as in previous elections, these elections were marked by doubts from the international community about the whole process which, if not credible in calling into question who would win, may at least call into question the magnitude of putin's victory. the commission is therefore calling for unambiguous adherence to the best international standards. russia faces a major strategic challenge, and it is expected that it will have to choose between the recent alignment with china and a rapprochement with europe. despite the recent russian-chinese partnership in defending the syrian regime, i believe that in the medium and long term russia will not fail to recognize that its interests will be best served by choosing to move closer to the west. i hope that this will be the case and that the commission will endeavour to adopt standards and practices which coincide with this desirable future alignment.
in writing. - in the face of serious suspicions of electoral fraud in the 1996 presidential elections, neither the eu nor the us failed to praise russian democracy and the election of the candidate they wanted at the time - boris iletsin. today's criticisms, including those which are missing from this resolution, highlight the eu's well-known policy of double standards. the eu, like the us, has already realised that the russian government is not ready to submit fully to its interests. the russian government, which cannot hide its role in the service of the national plutocracy, has been holding back the advancement of the interests of these two blocs by protecting national wealth, particularly energy, from foreign interests. more recently, russia's veto in the un security council of military intervention in syria has led the us and the eu to see their expansionist ambitions blocked. in short, what concerns the eu and the us is not the defence of democracy but their desire to see russia have a government more likely to satisfy their own undeniable interests and ambitions for imperial domination.
in writing. − enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the eu and russia are of crucial importance for the stability, security and prosperity of europe. the development of a strategic partnership between the european union and the russian federation can only be based on shared common values. however, concerns remain about the russian federation's development in respect for and protection of human rights and respect for generally accepted democratic principles, rules and processes. the russian federation is a full member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) and has therefore committed itself to respecting the principles of democracy and human rights. on 12 april 2011, the european court of human rights condemned the lengthy registration processes of political parties in russia, which do not respect the electoral standards set by the council of europe and the osce, and the limitations on the registration of political parties and candidates that restrict political debate and pluralism in russia. we must continue to encourage the russian leadership to adopt more democratic practices towards opposition parties.
in writing. − the eu-russia political dialogue is of paramount importance to both sides. this motion for a resolution sets out the european parliament's observations on the presidential elections in russia. i voted in favour because i consider the comments made constructive and in line with the demands of the russian people, who have called for further reforms through peaceful demonstrations, which are frequent and involve an impressive number of citizens.
in writing. - the allegations of irregularities in the duma elections and the recent presidential elections are likely to raise the greatest concerns about russia's respect for human rights and democratic principles. it is therefore essential that russian political leaders engage in a constructive dialogue with the opposition and adopt the necessary reforms to ensure effective competition and political pluralism, by promoting, to this end, the simplification of the rules governing the registration of political parties, the resolution of problems concerning freedom of the press, assembly and expression, and the deepening of the rule of law and democratic transparency.
in writing. − the cooperation agreement between the european union and the russian federation was concluded in 1997 and extended until 2010, when it was replaced by a new agreement which established a comprehensive framework for bilateral relations. in addition to the agreements concluded, the european union remains deeply concerned about the protection of human rights and respect for democratic and electoral principles in russia. i am voting in favour of this report because i agree with the electoral observation mission which found irregularities in the preparation and conduct of the elections and the fact that the choice of voters was limited, and that it is important to adopt reforms in the existing political system. finally, i also regard the growing civic participation in the election campaign as extremely positive, which should allow for a serious and transparent analysis of the irregularities detected, in order to strengthen the democratic rules for future elections.
in writing. the criticisms which are implicit in this motion for a resolution on the results of the presidential elections in russia only demonstrate once more that the european union has two weights and two measures. it is a fact that, during the various suspicions of electoral fraud in the 1996 presidential elections, neither the eu nor the us failed to praise russian democracy and the election of the candidate they liked boris yeltsin. the us and the eu have already understood that the russian government is not ready to submit fully to their imperialist interests. this has been demonstrated by the russian government through a certain economic and political independence and defence of its national wealth, particularly energy, and the role of the state in certain strategic sectors. more recently, russia's veto in the un security council of military intervention in syria has led to the us and eu seeing their expansionist pretensions blocked. the question that concerns the eu and the us is not the defence of democracy, but their desire to see russia have a government that is more in line with their interests.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the human rights situation has been deteriorating in recent months. it is necessary for kazakhstan to give a clear signal that it respects human rights. on the other hand, we must be very critical of the election of president nazarbayev, which was clearly rigged and was strongly contested by international bodies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that there has been a strengthening of relations between the eu and kazakhstan, including in strategic areas such as democracy, human rights, the environment, energy, trade and transport, as well as the fight against organised crime and drug trafficking. despite the progress, it is important to stress that the kazakh authorities must make more efforts to improve the human rights situation in the country.
in writing. - kazakhstan has shown contradictory signs in moving towards more free and fair political and judicial systems, and the deaths in zhanaozen last december are deeply regrettable. it is fair to acknowledge the slow progress of central asia in the field of democracy and human rights and the way in which the countries of central asia have not shown overly encouraging results in this respect. nevertheless, it is equally fair to note that, as regards kazakhstan, some positive reforms have been undertaken, and we can only hope that the government and the population will persevere in their implementation. i hope that the european union will continue to support change in kazakhstan, support the sectors of civil society that most want it and maintain regular contacts with the authorities in the country.
in writing. the repression of the workers' struggles in kazakhstan is taking on brutal contours. we strongly condemn it, as do the attacks on workers' rights, the amendments to the labour code which make it possible to dismiss workers who strike, the abolition of the restriction on dismissing trade unionists during negotiations during the strike period, the legalization of lock-outs and the possibility for the courts to declare strikes illegal. this repression is taking place in a context where kazakhstan is targeted by geostrategic interests aimed at controlling and appropriating its natural resources, especially hydrocarbons. the interests of multinationals are converging there, who see the country's accession to the wto as a unique opportunity to satisfy their inescapable interests of domination. this perspective must be taken into account in the eu's own judgments on the situation in the country and its development. this resolution is a demonstration of that.
in writing. - kazakhstan has not shown the necessary signs of moving towards more free and fair political and judicial systems. we must also deeply regret the deaths that took place in zhanaozen last december. the countries of central asia have not been able to make progress in democracy and human rights. however, as far as kazakhstan is concerned, some positive reforms have nevertheless been achieved. it is important that the eu continues to support change in kazakhstan and to support the sectors of civil society that most want it, maintaining the regular contacts that already exist with the authorities in the country.
in writing. − this resolution on kazakhstan expresses the european parliament's support for deeper cooperation between the eu and kazakhstan, which can be of great benefit to both sides. however, this economic cooperation, in addition to being parallel to political cooperation, must be based on the will to apply and defend common values. i voted in favour not only because of the crucial role played by kazakhstan in the socioeconomic development of central asia and the stability and security of the region.
in writing. − the eu and kazakhstan have in recent years established deeper cooperation, both economically and politically. however, a series of serious events have taken place which run counter to the most elementary principles of democracy and the rule of law. religious intolerance, political repression, restrictions on freedom of expression and assembly, intimidation and violent attacks against independent media have created a climate of fear among citizens. this is expected to change the attitude of kazakh politicians, since this country has played an important role in the socioeconomic development of central asia and in the stability and security of the region.
in writing. − there are several reports of the continuing violation of human rights in kazakhstan, casting doubt on the implementation of political reforms being carried out by the government of this country. abuse of power, detention of political opponents and journalists, of activists who were present at the demonstration in the city of zhanaozen last december, religious repression, violation of freedom of the press and the basic principles of the rule of law. i think it is important to clarify the government's actions towards the zhanaozen protesters and to await the investigation of the national commission established with the un monitoring. on the other hand, in parallel with the negotiations for a strengthened eu-kazakhstan agreement, the eu must show its concern at the dilution of fundamental and democratic rights and alert the authorities to the need for reforms. stability and development of kazakhstan are fundamental to the socioeconomic growth of central asia and international relations as a whole.
in writing. the european union, with its imperialist nature and practice, is hypocritical in many areas, particularly in external relations, often adopting positions based on the preponderance of economic and political dividends that it can extract from them, to the detriment of an honest analysis of the facts, of the concrete reality, of the situation of the peoples and workers. we reject this drift of constant attempts at external interference, which, curiously, does not apply to countries whose governments are in the same league. we strongly condemn the brutal crackdown on workers' rights and their struggle, in particular the amendments to the labour code which make it possible to dismiss workers who strike, the abolition of the restriction on dismissing trade unionists during negotiations during the strike period, the legalization of lock-outs and the possibility for the courts to declare strikes illegal. however, we distance ourselves from the position of those who seek to demonize kazakhstan by means of an intervention which creates the necessary conditions for the appropriation of its natural resources, in particular hydrocarbons, by multinationals, which the country's accession to the wto will facilitate.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the human rights and freedom of expression of nigerian citizens have been put in question and international actors must take pre-emptive action to try to prevent possible future atrocities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it strongly condemns the recent wave of violence in nigeria. the nigerian authorities must put an end to this situation and ensure full respect for human rights. a strong message must be sent to all communities to highlight the need for restraint and the search for peaceful means to resolve the differences between faiths and ethnicities in nigeria.
in writing. - nigerian christian communities have been battered by brutal terrorist actions perpetrated by radical sections of their islamic communities. unfortunately, the whole international community still remembers the savage attack on a church on christmas day last year, and this was preceded and followed by several others. the adoption of sharia law in parts of nigeria raises fears of increased repression of christian minorities and requires the federal government to rigorously assess and timely crackdown on all judicial and extrajudicial abuses that undermine human dignity, freedom of expression, assembly and association, and the right to practice a religion. as a community historically linked to nigeria and a major donor, the european union cannot but press the nigerian government to ensure the basic rights of its citizens and to help put an end to its abuses.
in writing. - this resolution is an example of how the approach taken by this parliament can be totally different, with countries having political power favourable to the interests of big capital of the eu powers, and another, arrogant and openly meddlesome, when it comes to countries that do not submit to their dictates. the language used in this resolution is deliberately soft in the face of a very serious situation, seeking to focus attention on what is a consequence the strengthening of terrorist organizations so as not to touch on what constitutes the generating element of the whole problem: the unbridled exploitation of the country's natural resources, namely oil and natural gas, the corruption and violence encouraged by the big oil multinationals and the massive poverty. it is not enough to ask the oil companies to contribute and increase accountability when it comes to companies that have committed the worst crimes against the nigerian people and caused irreparable environmental damage. environmental crimes against humanity have been committed in the niger delta, leaving coastal communities without any source of income.
in writing. - what has happened in nigeria with the christian communities, who have been confronted with brutal terrorist acts perpetrated by radical sections of their islamic communities, cannot continue to happen. we all remember the unspeakable attack on a church on christmas day last year, and there have been other similar attacks before, which unfortunately have continued. the adoption of sharia law in parts of nigeria raises fears that these attacks will continue indefinitely unless the federal government authorities take concrete measures to combat them. fundamental principles are at stake here, namely attacks on human dignity, freedom of expression, assembly and association and the right to practice a religion. the european union cannot stand by and must put pressure on the nigerian government to ensure the basic rights of its citizens and help to put an end to their abuse.
in writing. - i join the european parliament's call for all communities to exercise restraint and seek peaceful means to resolve differences between faiths and ethnicities.
in writing. - it is regrettable that in one of the countries with the greatest economic potential in africa, most of the population lives below the poverty line. the situation in nigeria is unstable because of a number of factors: corruption and promiscuity in the state apparatus, mismanagement of oil resources, environmental chaos, sexual intolerance and the existence of islamist terrorist groups that are spreading panic among the christian population. in this regard, and as this resolution rightly points out, it is curious that the eu should combine diplomacy with long-term development cooperation with the aim of helping nigeria achieve peace, security, good governance and respect for human rights.
in writing. − the islamist group boko haram has carried out a series of attacks in nigeria with the aim of establishing an islamic state. the latest attack took place in the city of kano, killing about 185 people, targeting police officials. in response, national authorities have been executing extrajudicial actions by members of the islamist group. this escalation of violence and conflicts between different faiths and ethnicities have led to economic, social and political stagnation in the country. a country rich in natural resources, the eighth largest oil producer in the world, is grappling with a social scourge, with most of its 148 million inhabitants living below the poverty line. i support dialogue and cooperation with the nigerian authorities to undertake the essential reforms needed to boost the country's economic growth and development.
in writing. - here is another example of a totally different approach when it comes to countries with a political power that is friendly or aligned with the interests of big capital of the eu powers and another, arrogant and openly meddlesome, when it comes to countries that do not submit to their dictates. the language used in this resolution is deliberately soft in the face of a very serious situation, seeking to focus attention on what is a consequence - the strengthening of terrorist organizations - so as not to touch on what constitutes the generating element of the whole problem: the unbridled exploitation of the country's natural resources, the corruption and violence encouraged by the big oil multinationals and the massive poverty. it is not enough to ask the oil companies to contribute and increase accountability when it comes to companies that have committed the worst crimes against the nigerian people and caused irreparable environmental damage, as in the niger delta. it is not unparalleled that the government of one of africa's largest oil producers, nigeria, has suspended fuel subsidies. we understand this hypocrisy when we see that the eu is dependent on imported hydrocarbons and that 20% of nigeria's oil is exported to the eu.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, reinforcing the message that water is a precious and public good and must be accessible to all mankind. the european union must therefore focus its position on promoting free access to water for all people, on efforts to conserve and manage it, taking account of the threats of climate change and greater coordination at regional, national, european and global levels in the interests of water quality.
in writing. - drinking water, an element we all take for granted, is not, however, accessible to the entire world population. however, it plays a key role in public health and environmental protection and as such these should be priorities for any appropriate water management policy. this is why the proper protection of drinking water resources is so important for human health and for combating water pollution by limiting the amount of dangerous substances entering the environment and areas with drinking water resources. in this new millennium, water must be seen as a genuine fundamental right of all citizens and as such deserves the appropriate protection of national, european and international legislators.
in writing. - this resolution amalgamates some commonplace notions about water with incorrect generalizations, which serve as a wrapper for a set of quite serious mercantilist objectives. the document distorts the text of the un resolution on the human right to water and sanitation, failing to faithfully reproduce the content of what was a very important decision of the un assembly. on the other hand, it does not take on, as was required, the clear and unequivocal defense of public ownership and management of water, creating the ambiguity that is conducive to business and privatization. the rejection of our amendments in this respect is indicative of the intentions of the majority of this parliament. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat illegal immigration and to ensure that the rights of the child are respected. the entire document is based on the collection of funds to be made available to eu-based transnational corporations, in particular water and sanitation companies and related service providers. the model is known. the funds are made available as aid to developing countries, are collected by these transnational corporations and are considered to be the debt of these countries, and privatisations are associated with the process.
in writing. - contrary to what it may seem, drinking water, an element we all take for granted, is not, however, accessible to the entire world population. water is, however, fundamental to public health and environmental protection and therefore an appropriate water policy should be a priority for all. proper protection of drinking water resources and the fight against water pollution are essential if we are to safeguard areas where drinking water resources exist. water should be accessible to all citizens, as a fundamental right, and thus deserving of adequate protection by national, european and international legislators.
in writing. − water is a common good of mankind, so access to it must be universal and constitute a fundamental right. i voted in favour of this resolution in which the european parliament welcomes the recognition by the united nations of the human right to safe drinking water and basic sanitation, which derives from the right to an adequate standard of living. i support the call for all necessary efforts to be made to ensure that the most deprived people have access to water by 2015.
in writing. − water is a commodity that is increasingly under threat, given the current demographic growth, urbanisation and the most diverse types of pollution. to make matters worse, it is a commodity that is not available to everyone. as a result, millions of people die each year from water-related diseases and from poor sanitation. in order to ensure the well-being of all, water must be considered a common good of mankind and not a source of profit. access to water should therefore be a fundamental and universal right. in addition, all countries are expected to set a quantitative target for reducing chemical and biological pollution from urban wastewater and soil-related activities by 2015 in order to protect and restore water quality and support the sustainability of water resources and ecosystems. finally, at the economic level, it is important to encourage public and private investment in research and development of innovative technologies in all water sectors.
in writing. − a significant proportion of developing countries lack basic sanitation infrastructure to enable effective management of water resources, a key precondition for poverty reduction. it should be noted that over 800 million people annually consume water from unsafe sources, which ultimately leads to the death of approximately 2.5 million children. i agree with this report, since it is necessary to ensure that access to water is a fundamental and universal right and should not be a source of profit but rather contribute to improving the quality of life of the population. i therefore believe that public and private entities should invest increasingly in the research and development of innovative technologies in all water sectors, encouraging the use of new technologies in agriculture with a view to producing sufficient and safe food. i believe it is essential that member states commit themselves increasingly to the achievement of the millennium development goals set by the united nations and also take into account the relevant outcomes of the rio+20 conference on sustainable development.
in writing. - this document distorts the text of the un resolution on the human right to water and sanitation, failing to faithfully reproduce the content of what was a very important decision of the un assembly. nor does it take a clear and unequivocal stand for public ownership and management of water, creating the ambiguity that is conducive to business and privatization. other aspects that we have not reviewed are the recommendation of the polluter-pays principle, the prospect of another water and sanitation tax, and the raising of funds to be made available to eu-based transnational corporations, including water and sanitation and related service providers.
author. − madam president, the cnn reportage ‘death in the desert’ broadcast last november gave me the shivers. it exhibited the horrific and inhumane trade going on in the sinai peninsula with tremendous specificity at best, or deep complicity – most likely of the egyptian authorities – with the organised criminal networks that kidnap refugees in order to extract and sell their organs, butchering their bodies cruelly and disrespectfully. this resolution of the european parliament is long overdue, since the monstrosity of the criminal activity conducted by some sinai bedouin tribes, at the service of some well-known health professional vultures with connections well beyond egypt, is undeniably documented, and it is the poorest of the poor – men, women and children, refugees trying to escape oppression and misery such as the eritrean solomon w. whom we speak about in this resolution – who, instead of protection and support, are experiencing detention, rape, forced labour, ransom, torture and death in the most obscene and primitive ways. this is a matter that must be taken up as a priority by the european union high representative, with the egyptian and israeli authorities at the highest level, and that should be referred by the european union to the un security council if no resolute action is taken soon to stop the criminal networks operating in the sinai, to make stringent efforts to punish those responsible and to afford protection to the victims and any passing refugees.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, who is afraid of free media broadcasting? it looks like israel is, considering the assault the israeli defence forces and ministry of communication carried out at the end of february on the palestinian al-watan tv and al-quds educational tv, confiscating equipment and documents and holding journalists and employees for hours, on whatever pretext. in doing so israeli forces not only violated article 19 of the universal declaration of human rights on the right to freedom of opinion and expression, which includes the right to impart information and ideas through any media, but israel also committed a gross and glaring breach of the oslo accords. israel must be urged to immediately return the confiscated equipment, allow the resumption of work of those palestinian tv stations and compensate them for the losses suffered. as this european parliament resolution demands, this matter must be put on the agenda of the eu-israeli association council.
madam president, this resolution is appropriate and it is balanced, it acknowledges some positive steps taken, notably with the independent commission of inquiry, which acknowledged that there was excessive force, torture and unfair trials in the response to last year's protests. but this resolution also acknowledges the shortcomings, the slowness in implementing reforms and correcting injustices, in particular the lack of release of political prisoners. last week i received in brussels a group of women, members of the house from bahrain, from all religious confessions, who came to say that the demonstrations had been politically and religiously manipulated by obscurantist forces. if that is so, why does bahrain continue to bar journalists and human rights organizations from entering the country? why has the un special rapporteur on torture, who wants to visit bahrain, been prevented from doing so? why has bahrain not yet extended an invitation to the un human rights council special procedures unit to visit and find out what happened? the european union, through the high representative, must demand that bahrain actually make the necessary reforms and correct the abuses committed, and it must absolutely, as several colleagues have said, demand that the member states strictly comply with the criteria of the common position on arms exports so that europeans are not complicit in internal repression in bahrain.
madam president, before passing to the vote, i would just like to give parliament the information that news agencies are reporting an attack by ethiopia inside eritrea, in which a number of people have been killed and two german citizens kidnapped. these are two countries who fought a bloody war in the nineties. i believe the eu has a tremendous responsibility, because it has not only been giving massive support in aid to one of these countries, ethiopia, but actually not doing what it should in terms of demanding that both countries respect the arbitration decision on the border issued a couple of years ago, which is something that favours ethiopia. i would like to ask, through you, that when baroness ashton comes to parliament next week, to the meeting of the committee on foreign affairs, she will be prepared to give us information on what is happening between these two countries.
mr president, i would like to say basically that it is with great joy that we have seen that steps have been taken to integrate serbia into the european union. this is very important because the experience of countries like portugal, spain and greece, which were countries that experienced dictatorships and had a series of very serious problems, is the experience that european integration was the way to consolidate democracy. and so serbia deserves this opportunity as well. i would like to make a slightly different point here than has been made by my colleagues. i know and i very much welcome the concern for minorities, but we must not forget the serbian majority, it is essential that the serbs themselves have a place in the european union and a place of full rights. this cannot be forgotten. there will be no peace in the balkans without serbia and therefore, as much as we emphasize the rights of minorities, they must be respected, we cannot forget the serbian majority, their identity and their full right to be european citizens equal to all others, with their own state and their own national pride.
mr president, we have always said so and the reality shows it. the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo was a very serious event and a dangerous precedent in international law, with unforeseeable consequences for the stability of borders, particularly on the european continent. it was a flagrant violation of the charter of the united nations and the helsinki charter and an illegal decision in the light of the main principles of international law. the reality is that the artificial creation of a pseudo-state under surveillance sovereignty, whatever that is, was anything but sovereign. it was a protectorate created and imposed through aggression and military occupation by the united states of america, nato and the european union, which are maintained through kfor, which is seconded by the eulex mission of the european union. the unilateral declaration of independence of kosovo was intended only to perpetuate, through the policy of the fait accompli, the political, economic and military domination of this very important region of europe by the united states and the great powers of the european union.
mr president, as the oomen-ruijten report points out, turkey has made considerable progress, but it still has a long way to go in ensuring human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the new constitution must enshrine the basic values and principles of the european union, ensuring a real separation of powers, civilian control over the military and an inclusive definition of turkish citizenship that fully respects the rights of minorities, including the kurdish minority, and the majority, which are women. freedom of expression and of the press are fundamental to guaranteeing other human rights and democracy. intellectuals, journalists and human rights activists continue to be put in prison. it is urgent that turkey review its criminal and anti-terrorist laws, stop the abuse of special courts against oppositionists and guarantee the independence of the judiciary. turkey's actions in the next six months, when cyprus will assume the presidency of the european union, will not only test the european union: the european union is not a political union, but a political union.
the rapporteur. - mr president, sometimes we have to remember where we came from: if you look at the history of international refugee law, you see that the aknur constitution in 1949, the geneva convention on refugees in 1951, and the first major refugee resettlement effort, which was in 1956 after the revolution in hungary, all of them were aimed at european refugees. europe was then the continent of refugees. and we europeans often forget that today, when we see refugees coming from the rest of the world. we also have to think about the world we're in. refugees are the most vulnerable population in the world. of the few million refugees who exist, most want to return home to their countries of origin. another part may stay in transit countries with which they sometimes have cultural or linguistic affinities. but a small portion of refugees, which aknur estimates at about 200,000 a year, can neither return home, where their lives would be at risk, nor stay where they are, in countries that are often not signatories to the geneva conventions. we must therefore give them access to a new life in a third country. the resettlement of refugees is a global, orderly and peaceful effort in which we must all play our part, and europe must play its part precisely by remembering where it came from and its history. today, europe resettles about 5,000 refugees a year, compared to about 100,000 resettled by other countries: the united states, primarily, canada, australia, or even new players like brazil and chile. we must then get down to business, and we have done so in recent years. the codecision on the european refugee fund, which we voted on in this house two years ago, introduces new humanitarian priorities with clearer categories, strategic priorities in the european union's neighbourhood where we can act to help resolve critical humanitarian emergencies, and modulation between the support given to member states so that we can attract new member states and get to 27, because when we started this process, only 10 were resettling and now we are going to 13 who want to resettle. it hasn't been easy to make this journey for two years now. since it was initiated under the swedish presidency and until it was finally completed under the danish presidency. there have been in these various presidencies various obstacles and there have been various moments of anguish when lives have been lost and when people have waited in refugee camps longer than we would have liked. in my view, and i believe in the view of european citizens and many people in this house and in the institutions, this is not the way to make a law in a matter of life and death. the lisbon treaty, which introduced the codecision procedure, must be followed by an interinstitutional agreement which provides for clear deadlines for the adoption of such legislation. we can't take two years to make a law in a life-or-death situation. i should, however, like to thank the danish presidency for its activity and the hard work it has put into this dossier, which has enabled us to close this procedure, especially since denmark, because it has an option on these matters, does not have access to the money from the european refugee fund. it was selfless and noble work, as indeed was much of the work done here in this parliament. the refugees, it is not too much to remember, are not the ones who vote for the members who are here, are not the ones who pay their salaries through their taxes or are not the leaders of our political parties, but from greek communists to british conservatives, there has been a huge alliance in this house to get this dossier to a good end and i am very grateful for that. and i would like to end by remembering the commission itself, where the process was initiated, and, on behalf of many commission officials, i would like to mention a person who worked for two years on this dossier and who unfortunately passed away after the agreement was reached and even before it was adopted here: our colleague and friend stéphanie pasqueti, whose work, like the work of many people who worked on this dossier, will be extended as long as we succeed in resettling one more refugee family, doubling or tripling the number of refugees resettled in the world. thank you very much and i thank everyone who has collaborated on this dossier.
mr president, i congratulate the rapporteur, mr rui tavares, on his excellent work and on finally reaching an agreement. it was a process that took too long because of an inexplicable deadlock at council level. an agreement which, in my delegation, has already been applauded by mr carlos coelho, is inexplicable, especially for the thousands of refugees who are living through a humanitarian tragedy, waiting in camps, in the most chaotic of cases in subhuman conditions and at risk of becoming the food for human trafficking networks. the urgency of the situation is revealed in the figures: during the year 2011, there was an increase of 15% compared to the previous year. the european union, with its 27 member states, has received almost 280 000 asylum applications. the european refugee fund should make it possible to finance actions of interest to the european union as a whole, but also actions of a transnational or purely national dimension, in the light of the establishment of a joint european union resettlement programme. the reception and protection systems of several member states have been severely tested by the unexpected arrival of large numbers of persons in need of international protection, in particular from countries such as afghanistan, libya, syria, tunisia and côte d'ivoire. it is therefore essential that this community financial support can be used by member states to improve their reception systems and to encourage resettlement.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, thank you for this debate. i agree with all of you who said that we hope more member states will engage in the programme once it is in place. we are definitely willing on the commission side to try to organise, facilitate and also fund this. as we all know, there are many people in the world who are desperate to run away from suffering, and from oppression and violence, many who have no other hope than to be resettled in europe. these are the most vulnerable people in the world. while we are, of course, aware that we have an economic crisis in the european union, we also have a long tradition of solidarity; that is part of one of the most important values of the european union. sometimes when i look and listen to the debate in the european union, in different member states today, solidarity does not seem to be very fashionable. but this is a chance to show solidarity not only in theory but also in practice. it is a chance to give people a life, hope for the future, and i would like to thank parliament for making this possible.
the rapporteur. - thank you, mr president, and thank you to all the members and commissioner malmström for their speeches. i would now like to say a few words about the future of the refugee resettlement programme in the european union. i am very pleased to see that the next financial perspective for the european union, as proposed by the commission, has adopted a good many of the ideas we have been discussing in recent years. the modulation between member states in order to attract more member states to resettle, the creation also of a resettlement unit located in the european asylum support office and the inclusion of some intelligence and sensitivity, i would say, in resettlement policies which cannot be based on a budgetary fund alone. and of course i fully support the commission in using article 80 on solidarity as a legal basis. we cannot accept that some member states in the council do not want to see article 80 cited as the legal basis for such instruments. i have to ask, who is afraid of solidarity in the european union? i now use this remaining minute to ask the citizens to do their part too: on the one hand, to persuade their member states and tell them that there is now extra money for resettlement, there are new rules, there is help at the european level to do things that individually would be expensive but that done together are much cheaper, that resettle more refugees. secondly, i would ask you to support the ngos and the unhcr that work in this area and i would also ask you to learn more about the way in which legislation is made in the european union and to do something to put an end to this codecision process by which european law is sometimes blocked between parliament and the council. without deadlines, a codecision is not a codecision, it is just an excuse to use a tacit veto. and finally, remember that, like us in our european history who have been refugees so many times, a refugee is a normal person in very difficult circumstances, someone who has already risked his life when he was expelled from his home, we will not let him do it again, even more falling into the hands of human trafficking, and please help us also to do the job of soon doubling or tripling the number of refugees resettled in the european union.
i would also like to acknowledge the efforts made by the rapporteur to ensure that we have strong controls in this house's budget for next year. the forecast increase of 1.9% is lower than the rate of inflation and that is a positive thing, but the left considers that this 1.9% should be considered as a ceiling and that this ceiling should be kept down until the final approval of the figures. we will make proposals to that end, ensuring in any case that the rights of workers and the right to multilingualism are fully respected. where are our reserves? firstly, we await the report from the presidency on the reduction of travel expenses for members of the european parliament. the sum involved is 12 million euros. secondly, we consider that the freezing of the various forms of indirect pay for these same members of the european parliament is not sufficient. another 10 million euros are at stake. thirdly, we disagree with the increase planned for the headings relating to the media. you can do better, with more imagination, but without more money. fourthly, we disagree with the above-inflationary increase foreseen for european foundations and parties. i am at ease because i am the leader of a european party, but there is one thing i do not want to do, and that is to arouse the demons of primary anti-europeanism. and finally, we must discuss the question of the single seat with an open mind, because that means discussing both brussels and strasbourg and at the same time finding alternatives to the one that is being overlooked.
ask him about the blue card procedure. mr president, mr garriga polledo was referring to the fact that we probably have more interpreters in this chamber than members. i would like to ask the honourable member, without making any further remarks, whether he is aware that this sitting, this debate, is also being broadcast on the national television network and that, as a result, it may be seen by many more people. this should not be used as a pretext for the cuts which the honourable member recognises as positive in interpretation and translation services.
mr president, i would like to refer to a particular aspect of this report. he welcomes what he calls the reorganisation of translation and interpretation activities. what kind of reorganization is this, i wonder? is it to fill the gaps that exist today in the fields of translation and interpretation? i'm afraid not the objective is quite clear: to save on the budget. even today there are resolutions that are not translated or that are translated late and at the wrong time. even if there are severe restrictions on interpreting services at various meetings and delegations. this parliament cannot welcome cuts in these areas and then make empty claims of concern about respect for multilingualism. i would like to once again welcome all the staff of the translation and interpretation services, who are essential to the functioning of this house. we will not accept that these workers are promoted to precarious employment, putting jobs and their rights at risk.
mr president, ten months after the signing of the pact of aggression by the imf and the european union, portugal is more dependent, less democratic, the economy is in recession and the portuguese are poorer. this is what the troika came to regard as a success in its recent evaluation. people who are left without homes, without jobs and without benefits, without family allowances, without money for education, for health, for food, for transportation, for electricity, for water. this is what the troika considers a success, the freedom of the employers to exploit and fire when it suits them, this is what the troika considers a success. but this is what the portuguese workers rejected on 22 december. the general strike they have carried out, in addition to a remarkable statement of courage, firmness and combativeness, was a powerful condemnation of this troika and the recipes that we are falsely told are inevitable. they're not! the demonstration of young workers and the demonstration in defence of local democratic power will demonstrate this once again, both on the 31st. the struggles to reject this path are multiplying, expanding and converging.
mr president, commissioner, i listened to your speech very carefully. you propose that this food aid programme for the most deprived be financed by the european social fund. i would remind you, commissioner, that the european social fund is mainly intended for vocational integration. the first is that the social partners are not in a position to take the necessary steps to ensure that the young people are integrated into the labour market. there is no social integration without occupational integration. i don't think you should let the prey go to the shadows. we must continue to be very vigilant and very willing in the matter of integration into the workforce. as regards the food aid programme for the most deprived, yes, i want the sums allocated so far - 500 million euros per year - to be preserved for the real sustainability of this programme until 2020. yes, you will have to convince the reluctant countries today, but we will not allow the clause on good management conditionality to be attached to the social clause, that would amount to a double penalty. i want to tell you that we need this programme, that we are extremely committed to defending it and that it is your responsibility to make it last.
mr president, the social situation of poverty is unacceptable in the european union today. in 2010, some 23.4% of the population, or 115 million people, were at risk of poverty, and even for employed workers the risk of poverty remains. according to eurostat itself, this risk of poverty is closely linked to low-paid, low-skilled, precarious and part-time employment. the so-called budgetary consolidation measures adopted in this house will certainly make this situation worse. it is therefore unacceptable to make any proposal which, in such difficult times, deprives the population and workers of the food aid which guarantees a minimum of dignity of life, which guarantees their right not to live in food poverty. it is clear to us that if the annual funding of at least eur 500 million is not maintained, and it would be desirable if it were increased, the so-called spirit of solidarity of the european union would be further compromised.
i congratulate you on the announcement that the commission has finally succeeded in adopting measures which make it possible to use the budget available to help the most needy people. in this time of widespread economic crisis, and when the european union is making substantial funds available for various cross-border support, it would be incomprehensible for the european citizen not to secure the 500 million euro needed to maintain the programme in 2012 and 2013. i am concerned, however, that this is only a short-term aid, as the continuation of the programme is not assured after 2013. i appeal to my colleagues in the member states who have argued that food bank aid should be provided by each country, to make their governments aware of the need to support the poorest and to promote equity, primarily within the geographical, economic and political space we share and which should be more socially fraternal.
in writing. we will not accept any proposal from the european commission which, in a time of enormous social and economic difficulties, deprives people and workers of the food aid which guarantees a minimum of dignity in their lives, which guarantees their right not to live in food poverty. we support the extension of this programme until 2020 and that the annual funding of at least eur 500 million be maintained and, if desirable, increased. today, in the european union, some 115 million people are at risk of poverty. if the so-called budgetary consolidation measures are already a cause of the worsening of this situation, it would be inhuman and unacceptable for the european union to withdraw this aid from the populations when they need it most.
poverty in the union is overwhelming, with a middle class falling into hidden poverty and at risk of social exclusion. in 2010, some 115 million people in the eu were living below the poverty line, equivalent to 23.4% of the european population. this situation requires member states to impose social support measures for the most vulnerable, in particular children and the elderly. the effects of austerity have led to high unemployment rates, which make it impossible for the quality of life in the countries to improve. public policies need to be created to support food distribution and to end food waste in public restaurants and canteens. on the other hand, in the eu's terms, in addition to the implementation of sectoral policies, in particular cohesion policy, the eu must continue to support the food aid programme which benefits 13 million people through food surpluses. i therefore consider it important that member states do not cut support for this programme in the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020.
in writing. this report seeks to define and apply what is called european citizenship, as if it made sense to designate the nationals of each country as, first and foremost, individuals of a european nation. it also proposes a number of harmonisations, particularly at the tax and social security levels, and the promotion of the digital single market, which confirms the federalist character of the report. it also advocates unacceptable interference in the internal workings of political parties, arguing that membership of a european political party can be proposed more often when joining a national party, and that citizens' more direct participation should be promoted through european political parties, on the basis that all parties share the same way of functioning and the same ideology. it is a question of establishing a single political and ideological thought. but there are voices that are deeply opposed to this, even though the majority of the ep tries to ignore it.
rapporteur. − madam president, the legal act that we are adopting today deals with questions of life and death for the most vulnerable population in the world: refugees. i should be happy but i am not, because it has taken us two years to reach this compromise. treaties call this a ‘codecision’ procedure, but it is nothing of the sort. without a deadline at first reading it is at best a ‘co-indecision’ procedure and at worst a tacit veto given to council. dear colleagues in parliament, dear colleagues in the council, a simple interinstitutional agreement will do. let us do away with this co-indecision procedure and find a true, fair and efficient way to do law in the european union.
in writing. - according to the contacts made by the rapporteur, the statutes and the rules of procedure of the international rubber study group seem to meet all the requirements. as such, parliament should accept the council's proposal, while at the same time suggesting that it would be important to try to attract all the world's major rubber producers to this group.
in writing. the international rubber study group (irsg) is the only inclusive international platform bringing together both rubber producing and rubber consuming countries. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry was not able to benefit from the measures in force. the fact that some of the world's largest rubber producing and consuming countries are not members of the irsg undermines the authority of this organisation and calls into question its objectives, credibility and representativeness. the united states of america, the third largest consumer, and thailand, the largest producer of rubber, left the gis in mid-2011.
in writing. the irsg is an intergovernmental organisation set up in 1944 in the united kingdom to discuss all aspects of the supply chain between rubber-producing and rubber-consuming countries. the purpose of the irsg is to collect and disseminate comprehensive statistical information on the global rubber industry, which is a key activity to increase transparency in the markets and to better understand and ultimately control the volatility of rubber prices. it is therefore appropriate for parliament to give its consent to the conclusion by the council, on behalf of the european union, of the amended statutes and rules of procedure of the international rubber study group.
in writing. the european council welcomes the commission's proposal to establish a european research area (era) to support the development of the european union's research and technological development activities in the field of biotechnology. the gis is an international organisation established in the united kingdom in 1994 (transferred to singapore in 2008) which aims to establish itself as a platform for debate between the rubber producing countries and the rubber consumers. the effectiveness of this organisation is compromised by the withdrawal of some countries considered to be the largest producers of rubber and the major consumers such as china and the united states of america are also not participating in this platform. in recent times, increased demand, especially from china, and the drop in production due to natural disasters and reduced planting of rubber trees have boosted the price of this raw material. i voted in favour of this recommendation because the eu is the second largest consumer of rubber in the world and despite its shortcomings i believe that the irsg is the only forum where member states, through their representatives, can demand more transparency in this market and ensure fair, predictable and more affordable access.
in writing. the international rubber study group (irsg) is an intergovernmental organisation which seeks to provide a platform for discussion between rubber producing and consuming countries on all aspects of the rubber supply chain. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: this activity is widely recognised as being key to increasing transparency in the rubber markets and their evolution, a prerequisite for better understanding and ultimately controlling the volatility of rubber prices. the rapporteur is concerned about the declining number of members of the irgc and the fact that china, the main rubber consumer, and indonesia, one of the largest producers, have not shown any interest in joining the group. the objectives governing the irsg are positive: to prepare current estimates and to analyse future supply and demand trends, while conducting statistical and economic studies on specific aspects of the industry. it is noted, however, that the panel of associated members of this group, open to the participation of organisations involved in the rubber industry, will naturally be permeable to the interests and influence of multinationals, which may extend to the group itself. this relationship cannot but be pernicious and may undermine the overall objectives of this group.
in writing. − the irsg is an intergovernmental organisation, initially established in 1944 in the united kingdom and transferred to singapore in 2008. it provides a platform for debate between rubber producing and rubber consuming countries on all aspects of the rubber supply chain. the commission also found that the union industry's sales volume and market share developed over the period considered as follows: this activity is widely recognised as being key to increasing transparency in the rubber markets and their evolution, a prerequisite for better understanding and ultimately controlling the volatility of rubber prices. i believe that the revision of the irsg's statutes and rules of procedure could give a boost to the relaunch of the group as an essential forum for the various stakeholders. i am in favour of adopting this proposal for a council decision on the conclusion by the european union of the amended statute and rules of procedure of the international rubber study group.
in writing. − in october 2011, the european parliament was asked to approve the conclusion by the council, on behalf of the european union, of the amendment to the statutes and rules of procedure of the international rubber study group (irsg). the rapporteur of this dossier invited the various interested parties to an exchange of views which took place at the meeting of the inta committee on 20 december 2011. it was clear from this meeting that the irsg is the only inclusive platform that brings together both rubber producing and rubber consuming countries. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market, which was much higher than the union industry's market share. for all these reasons, and following the rapporteur's conclusions, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's decision approving the conclusion of the amended statutes and rules of procedure of the international rubber study group and i consider it important to increase the number of members of this international rubber study group in order to attract in particular the main rubber producing and consuming countries. the group's performance shall be closely monitored and any relevant developments shall be reported to the european parliament within two years of the entry into force of the amended statutes and rules of procedure.
in writing. − the international rubber study group (irsg) aims to collect and disseminate comprehensive statistical information on the world rubber industry, which is an important and positive activity. we believe it is important that the participation of organisations involved in the rubber industry does not make the group permeable to the interests and influence of multinationals, which would be detrimental to the group's objectives.
in writing. − in this report we have access to comprehensive, understandable and accessible information, including, in particular, on co2 emissions. i would stress that the report also calls for transparency in the area of prices and guarantees in the event of airline bankruptcy, personal contact or services at airports and it also advocates another extremely important matter - the elimination of barriers for people with reduced mobility and disabilities. i therefore vote in favour of the report.
in writing. − knowing your rights is essential to ensuring that passengers can exercise them. the information should therefore be provided from the moment the ticket is reserved in a simple, appropriate and comprehensible manner. this report, which i supported, advocates the presence of liaison officers at airports who can make immediate decisions on the provision of assistance, reimbursement and rerouting resulting from flight disruption. considers it essential that there are effective, transparent and independent enforcement bodies to deal with passenger complaints, help resolve disputes between passengers and air carriers and ultimately impose sanctions where necessary. equally important is the need for passengers to be fully covered in the event of the airline's bankruptcy or insolvency. finally, i would point out that one of the most fundamental rights of passengers is the right to a safe journey. it is therefore considered essential that all passengers, including children under 2 years of age, have a safety seat on the aircraft.
in writing. - the number of passengers travelling by air has increased by an average of 4.5% per year. the number of passenger complaints has also been increasing. in 2009, some 36000 complaints were registered, 41% as a result of flight cancellations and 25% as a result of delays. spain was the member state that received the most complaints. portugal was the second member state with the most complaints. i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution because i consider it of the utmost importance to clarify and strengthen the rules and rights of air passengers, disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility who use air transport.
in writing. − given that the number of passengers travelling by air has been increasing, on average by 4.5% per year, it is important to analyse and review the existing rules on the protection of air passengers' rights in order to provide them with greater clarity of interpretation, while at the same time it is essential to strengthen the existing level of legal certainty and to create greater uniformity of application throughout the eu. uniform treatment of complaints is needed in the member states, which have been increasing considerably, with some 36000 complaints registered in 2009, of which 41% were due to cancellations and 25% to delays, with spain receiving the most complaints, followed by portugal. the main right of the passenger is to be provided with services as intended and, if this is not the case, there should be fast, simple and effective complaint systems, ensured by efficient and independent complaint handling bodies. i support this report which helps to increase accountability and transparency, clarify and strengthen existing rights and ensure that they are clearly communicated to consumers. special protection should also be ensured for the most vulnerable groups of consumers who lack additional guarantees in the exercise of their rights.
in writing. − whatever the means of transport used, passengers have a right to a quality and safe service, which is why i welcome the intention to introduce harmonised standards on air passenger rights throughout the eu and to strengthen passengers' right of access to information.
in writing. - in europe, hundreds of millions of flights are made every year. passengers are often faced with cancellations, denials or long delays of flights for a variety of reasons (strikes, weather, breakdowns, etc.), which cause them enormous disruption and loss. the report under consideration, which was prepared by keith taylor, focuses on the operation and enforcement of the rights acquired by air passengers following the commission's communication on the application of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 laying down rules on compensation and assistance to air passengers. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is essential that all passengers have access to inside information, which is communicated in a simple and accessible way and is available from the moment a passenger decides to book his ticket. in addition, it is essential that there are effective and independent bodies responsible for ensuring full compliance with european standards as regards the right to complain and to resolve disputes and/or to guarantee assistance, reimbursement or compensation. finally, there is the need to guarantee the right of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility to travel in safety and comfort.
in writing. - this report reflects, in general, concerns about the rights of air passengers, which we consider to be justified, but which are designed in the competitive framework of the process of liberalization of this sector, which itself calls into question one of the fundamental rights of these same passengers: the right to public transport and to quality and safety. we value the right of passengers to compensation and reimbursement in the event of lost, delayed or damaged luggage and in the event of flight delays or cancellations. the same applies to the rights of passengers with reduced mobility, pregnant women and children. but on the other hand, we are concerned that the aim is to standardise a set of services in order to create conditions of fair competition, in particular through the official establishment of a european network of national enforcement bodies with a clear mandate for better cooperation in the exchange of information, best practices and also their databases. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the use of the term 'commercial flight' in the present case is justified.
in writing. − this report seeks to take account of the recent commission communication on the application of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 laying down common rules for the compensation and assistance of air passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights and the commission report on the operation and effects of regulation (ec) no 1107/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 5 july 2006 on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility in air transport. in addition, this draft report also seeks to cover the wider context of air passenger rights at european level, as passenger rights are addressed in several eu laws. accountability and transparency are desirable, existing rights should be clarified and strengthened and consumers should be clearly informed.
in writing. − this report seeks to take account of the recent commission communication on the implementation of the regulation laying down common rules for compensation and assistance to air passengers in the event of denied boarding and of cancellation or long delay of flights and the commission report on the operation and effects of the regulation on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility in air transport. this report identified the need for increased legal certainty, greater clarity of interpretation and uniform application of the regulations throughout the european union. the incorporation of the european court of justice judgments on the subject in the next review was also identified. i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to increase accountability and transparency, to promote the clarification and strengthening of existing rights and to ensure that consumers are clearly informed of their rights.
in writing. − this own-initiative report is intended to serve as a basis for the revision of regulation 261/2004 on compensation and assistance to air passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation or long delay of flights. it also aims to bring about greater legal clarity and interpretation of the legislation, as well as its full application and uniformity in the member states. finally, it gives special attention to the rights of persons with reduced mobility, which include families with children, and of persons with disabilities. price transparency and compensation in the event of the bankruptcy of airlines should be uniform rights in the various member states. the triple choice - refund, rerouting and rebooking in the event of disruption - should be offered to all passengers immediately. in addition, the information should be accessible and a permanent point of contact should be available for possible changes after the reservation. i think it will also be important to consider protective measures against lost and delayed baggage and to allow the consumer to change, free of charge, booking errors or cancel an online reservation within two hours.
in writing. the process of liberalisation of the aviation sector is putting at risk the right to safe and high-quality public transport. this is a key issue not covered in this report. however, it does have some positive aspects - ensuring passengers' rights, in particular with regard to compensation and reimbursement in the event of lost, delayed or damaged luggage, as well as in the event of flight delays or cancellations. but on the other hand, we are concerned that the aim is to standardise a set of services to create a level playing field in relation to the exchange of information and data which may jeopardise passengers' rights to privacy and non-discrimination.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report which advocates the maintenance of the parliamentary immunity of mr luigi de magistris, who has made allegedly defamatory statements which are directly and clearly connected with the performance of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. the report, drawn up by bernhard rapkay, deals with the request for the defence of the privileges of the italian mep luigi de magistris. luigi de magistris, elected member of the european parliament (mep) in 2009, was summoned to appear before the court of catanzaro, italy, by maurizio mottola di amato, for having published, in early 2011, on his website, two legal documents that were part of a criminal case when luigi de magistris was a magistrate of the public prosecutor's office. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. lugi de magistris claims that as a member of the european parliament he had an obligation to inform the italian public about what was happening at the cantazaro court and that the documents, which have since been removed from his website, were not confidential. the fact that the facts of the case show that the information published by luigi de magistris has a direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament and taking into account the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i am voting in favour of the defence of the privileges and immunities of luigi de magistris.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. luigi de magistris' request concerns a subpoena against him in the court of catanzaro, on behalf of maurizio mottola di amato, in relation to two articles published by luigi de magistris on his website in early 2011. the articles were published on the website at a time when luigi de magistris was a member of the european parliament following the 2009 european elections. by publishing those articles, luigi de magistris was acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. i am therefore in favour of maintaining the privileges and immunities of luigi de magistris.
in writing. - mep luigi de magistris was summoned to appear before the court of catanzaro by maurizio mottola di amato in the context of two articles published by luigi de magistris on his website in early 2011, in which he attached a copy of court documents. luigi de magistris considers it entirely appropriate to inform italian citizens about court documents (which were not covered by any obligation of confidentiality). this was the case after luigi de magistris became a member of the european parliament. it is concluded in the committee on legal affairs that luigi de magistris was acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament and it was therefore decided to uphold the privileges and immunities of luigi de magistris. on the basis of the foregoing, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - in this case i am voting in favour of not defending the member's immunity, since in the situation in which he is accused of defamation, in particular for the publication of a book, luigi de magistris was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the request by luigi de magistris concerns a summons against him in the court of cosenza, in the name of dr vincenza bruno bossio, relating to statements made by luigi de magistris in his book entitled assalto al pm, storia di un cattivo magistrato (assault on the public prosecutor history of a bad magistrate), published in april 2010. the facts of the case, as set out in the summons and in the written observations submitted by mr de magistris to the committee on legal affairs, show that the statements made have no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of mr de magistris as a member of the european parliament. in publishing that book, luigi de magistris was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. so i am in favour of not defending the privileges and immunities of luigi de magistris.
in writing. - the present case concerns the summons against luigi de magistris in the court of cosenza, in the name of dr vincenza bruno bossio, concerning statements made by luigi de magistris in his book entitled assalto al pm, storia di un cattivo magistrato (assault on the public prosecutor history of a bad magistrate), published in april 2010. whereas the facts of the case, as set out in the summons and in the written observations submitted by mr luigi de magistris to the committee on legal affairs, indicate that the statements made have no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of mr luigi de magistris as a member of the european parliament and since he was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, it has been decided not to defend the privileges and immunities of mr luigi de magistris in the present proceedings. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the arguments put forward.
in writing. - luigi de magistris has a case against him relating to allegedly defamatory statements written by him in his book entitled assalto al pm, storia di un cattivo magistrato. i am voting in favour of the report which supports the non-maintenance of the member's parliamentary immunity on the grounds that, in making these statements, he is not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament.
in writing. the report, drawn up by bernhard rapkay, deals with the request for the defence of the privileges of the italian mep luigi de magistris. luigi de magistris, elected member of the european parliament (mep) in 2009, was summoned to appear before the court of milan, italy, by giancarlo pittelli, on the grounds that he had published, in april 2010, a book entitled assalto al pm, storia di un cattivo magistrato, in which, on pages 27, 58-60, 88-90 and 113-114, he questions the legal capacity of giancarlo pittelli to defend a defendant in the shock criminal case. giancarlo pittelli considered the statements extremely defamatory because they labelled him 'as a member of a white collar mafia with inappropriately close relations with personalities in the judicial, business and political spheres'. luigi de magistris claims that he has only expressed his opinion on important issues of public interest and that the book is the expression of the political activity of an mep. considering that the statements contained in the book have no 'direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties' of a member of the european parliament and taking into account the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i am voting in favour of not defending the privileges and immunities of luigi de magistris.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the request by luigi de magistris concerns a summons against him in the court of milan, in the name of dr giancarlo pittelli, relating to statements made by luigi de magistris in his book entitled assalto al pm, storia di un cattivo magistrato (assault on the public prosecutor's office history of a bad magistrate), published in april 2010. the facts of the case, as set out in the summons and in the written observations submitted by mr de magistris to the committee on legal affairs, show that the statements made have no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of mr de magistris as a member of the european parliament. in publishing that book, luigi de magistris was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. so i am in favour of not defending the privileges and immunities of luigi de magistris.
in writing. - the present case concerns the summons against luigi de magistris in the court of cosenza, in the name of dr giancarlo pittelli, concerning statements made by luigi de magistris in his book entitled assalto al pm, storia di un cattivo magistrato (assault on the public prosecutor's office history of a bad magistrate), published in april 2010. whereas the facts of the case, as set out in the summons and in the written observations submitted by mr luigi de magistris to the committee on legal affairs, indicate that the statements made have no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of mr luigi de magistris as a member of the european parliament and since he was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, it has been decided not to defend the privileges and immunities of mr luigi de magistris in the present proceedings. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the arguments put forward.
in writing. - the request of luigi de magistris for his immunity to be maintained, which relates to a summons against him in the court of lamezia and which arises from the fact that he allegedly made defamatory statements, should not be granted, since he was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament when he made the statements. as such, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. the report, drawn up by bernhard rapkay, deals with the request for the defence of the privileges and immunities of the italian mep luigi de magistris. luigi de magistris, elected member of the european parliament (mep) in 2009, was summoned to appear before the court of lamezia, italy, by antonio saladino, following an interview with the italian newspaper il fatto quotidiano on 9 march 2011. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. lugi de magistris claims that he only expressed his opinion on matters of legitimate public interest and that these were expressed in the context of his political activity as an mep. although the interview was given in his capacity as a member of the european parliament, the issues raised are not related to his parliamentary activity, and so, taking into account the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, i am voting in favour of the report in question and not defending the privileges and immunities of luigi de magistris.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the request by luigi de magistris relates to a summons against him in the court of lamezia, on behalf of antonio saladino, relating to statements made by luigi de magistris in an interview published in the italian newspaper il fatto quotidiano on 9 march 2011. the facts of the case, as set out in the summons and in the written observations submitted by mr de magistris to the committee on legal affairs, show that the statements made have no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of mr de magistris as a member of the european parliament. in making the statements at issue, mr de magistris was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament. so i am in favour of not defending the privileges and immunities of luigi de magistris.
in writing. - the present case concerns the summons against him in the court of lamezia, on behalf of antonio saladino, in relation to statements made by luigi de magistris in an interview published in the italian newspaper il fatto quotidiano on 9 march 2011. whereas the facts of the case, as set out in the summons and in the written observations submitted by mr luigi de magistris to the committee on legal affairs, indicate that the statements made have no direct and obvious connection with the performance of the duties of mr luigi de magistris as a member of the european parliament and since he was not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, it has been decided not to defend the privileges and immunities of mr luigi de magistris in the present proceedings. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the arguments put forward.
in writing. − i agree with the proposal to amend the decision on the european refugee fund to allow member states to resettle refugees according to the categories pre-defined by the eu. in order to forecast these resettlement movements, member states should provide the commission with an estimate of the number of persons they will resettle during the following calendar year.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the european refugee fund, which should make it possible to finance actions of interest to the european union, but also actions of a transnational or purely national dimension, in the light of the creation of a joint european union resettlement programme. the reception and protection systems of several member states have been severely tested by the unexpected arrival of large numbers of persons in need of international protection, in particular from countries such as afghanistan, libya, syria, tunisia and côte d'ivoire. the urgency of the situation is revealed in the figures: during the year 2011, there was an increase of 15% compared to the previous year. the european union, with its 27 member states, received almost 280 000 asylum applications. it is therefore essential that this community financial support can be used by member states to improve their reception systems and encourage resettlement.
in writing. − i consider it of the utmost importance to strengthen eu rules on refugee protection and to maximise the strategic impact of resettlement through better guidance for those most in need of resettlement. it is essential to formulate common resettlement priorities at eu level on a regular basis. the amendment to the decision establishing the european refugee fund in the light of the establishment of a joint eu resettlement programme proposed in this resolution has been duly considered by the committee on legal affairs. for the reasons i have given, i shall vote in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate mr rui tavares on his excellent work. finally, an agreement was reached with the council. a process too long due to an unexplained deadlock in the council. the thousands of refugees who are living through a humanitarian tragedy, waiting in camps, in most cases in subhuman conditions and at risk of becoming the food of human trafficking networks, demanded greater speed on the part of the council. the european refugee fund should make it possible to finance actions of interest to the eu as a whole, but also those of a transnational or purely national dimension. the reception and protection systems of several member states have been severely tested by the unexpected arrival of large numbers of persons in need of international protection, in particular from countries such as afghanistan, libya, syria, tunisia and côte d'ivoire. it is essential that this community financial support can be used by member states to improve their reception systems and to encourage resettlement by member states. at a time when the lack of solidarity between member states has been evident, it is essential to adopt measures to ensure a balanced distribution of the effort undertaken by member states in receiving refugees and displaced persons and to bear the consequences of such reception.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report for encouraging eu member states to resettle more refugees by extending the list of beneficiaries and the amount of the european refugee fund for the period 2008 to 2013.
in writing. − solidarity between the member states of the european union has been the fundamental principle of the region since its foundation. on the basis of this principle and article 80 tfeu, it is consequent to extend the european refugee fund to a joint eu resettlement programme for the period up to 2013. the european parliament recognises the need to establish a priority list of persons, including women and children, who should be resettled in places that ensure the most basic fundamental rights. this list must go beyond the number of refugees protected by each member state.
in writing. − a refugee is a normal person who is in a difficult situation for political, racial, religious or socioeconomic reasons. every year, about 200,000 people need to be resettled. while the ideal situation would be repatriation, the truth is that most of the time, they cannot return to their home country. this recommendation for second reading, drawn up by mr rui tavares, concerns the council position adopted at first reading and aims to adopt a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 573/2007/ec establishing the european refugee fund (erf) for the period 2008 to 2013 under the general programme 'solidarity and management of migration flows'. in the past, europe has been a desired destination for many refugees seeking this territory in search of security and a new life opportunity. as solidarity is one of the eu's oldest values, it is essential that it continues to be practised despite the current economic and financial crisis. i voted in favour of this recommendation because it validates a programme which will allow many people at risk to enter the eu and thus have a new chance.
in writing. - currently only 10 eu member states, including portugal, accept the resettlement of refugees. refugee resettlement is a procedure whereby member states take in third-country nationals or stateless persons who are transferred from a third country to an eu state, following a request from the unhcr, on the basis of the need for international protection of such persons. the aim of this approval is to encourage more member states to take in refugees. to this end, member states doing so for the first time will have an increase in the amount of financial assistance for the first two years. priority should be given to the resettlement of children and women at risk of violence or psychological, physical or sexual exploitation, unaccompanied minors, persons with special medical needs, survivors of violence and torture and persons in need of emergency resettlement for legal and protection reasons, irrespective of the geographical priorities that the eu has defined for a given period. the creation of this fund is essential if the number of countries hosting refugees is to increase. hence my vote.
in writing. − the reception and protection systems of several member states have been tested by the arrival of large numbers of persons in need of international protection, in particular from countries such as afghanistan, libya, syria, tunisia and côte d'ivoire. it is therefore essential that community financial support can be used by member states to improve their reception systems and encourage resettlement. the agreement that has finally been reached on this subject only sins by being late. the urgency is revealed in the numbers: during the year 2011, there was an increase of 15% compared to the previous year. the european union, with its 27 member states, has received almost 280 000 asylum applications. the european refugee fund should make it possible to finance actions of interest to the european union as a whole, but also actions of a transnational or purely national dimension, in the light of the establishment of a joint european union resettlement programme. i congratulate my compatriot rui tavares on his efforts and the results achieved. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the eu's joint refugee resettlement programme was already approved by a large majority in the ep in may 2010 and is now coming to second reading. this programme, through financial incentives and logistical and technical support, aims to resettle in the member states a growing number of refugees on a priority list of children and women at risk, unaccompanied minors, survivors of violence and torture, people with serious health problems to be treated and people for legal or physical reasons. in addition to the vulnerability criterion, annual geographical priorities defined by the commission and the council are also imposed. to encourage the participation of member states, there is a supplementary financial contribution from this fund of eur 6000 per person resettled in the first year, with a reduction in the amount in subsequent years. the refugee problem is a subject on which the eu must focus. there must be solidarity between member states, but above all compassion and respect for the human dignity of people in deplorable situations. let us hope that the member states will join this programme and resettle as many refugees as possible.
in writing. - i vote in favour. i agree with the rapporteur that it is important for the european parliament to adopt the council's position at its second reading in order to make rapid progress in implementing the agreed amendments and to fulfil our safety obligations while ensuring the competitiveness of european exporters.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishing a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items, because i agree with the general objective of the proposal and because i believe that most of its elements are beyond doubt.
in writing. − dual-use products (goods that can be used for both civilian and military purposes, such as chemicals that can be used for fertilisers or to prepare bombs, computer technology but used to guide missiles) remain a highly sensitive matter. the control of exports of dual-use items and technologies at european level aims to ensure compliance with the international commitments of the eu and its member states on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and conventional weapons. these include the ngs (nuclear suppliers group) against the proliferation of nuclear products and technologies or the australia group against the proliferation of chemical and biological products and technologies. i maintain my support for this report, as i had done previously at first reading, stressing the need to update annex i to regulation 428/2009 and welcoming the amendments made by the council to some definitions, now more up-to-date and not included in the commission's initial proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider it necessary to introduce the amendments listed in the european commission's proposal for a revision of regulation (ec) no 428/2009. these amendments will ensure that the commitments made by member states in relation to these schemes are applied uniformly throughout the eu and that exporters have greater legal certainty as regards products requiring export licences.
in writing. − dual-use technological products are all products (including software and technologies) which can be used for civilian or military purposes in parallel, and therefore require special care when exported to prevent the proliferation of weapons and, in particular, weapons of mass destruction. it is essential for international security that these products are controlled and that the regulations establishing such control mechanisms are continuously updated in line with technological developments. it is also clear that in a state governed by the rule of law such controls must be transparent and democratic, as the commission intends.
in writing. the report under review, by vital moreira, concerns a recommendation for a second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishing a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items. the european union must treat dual-use products and technologies, i.e. those which have a civil as well as a military use, in a very special way, because they can enable the manufacture of weapons of mass destruction and compromise the safety of people and property. i welcome the adoption of this report which is aimed at making the community's dual-use regimes more transparent and, for the safety of european citizens, preventing their use by unauthorised persons and/or organisations.
in writing. - as we said at the time of the first reading vote, the problem of the use of civilian products and technologies for military purposes needs an approach that does not stop at controlling exports of so-called dual-use goods and related services. this one's important, no doubt. how important it is to increase the transparency of procedures and to enable them to be subject to democratic scrutiny. but it is the very consistency of other eu policies with the objectives of this regulation that is at stake. in addition to the disagreement we have expressed on the regulation (which we maintain), we would like to recall, for example, the joint research projects financed by the 7th research framework programme, in particular those resulting from the participation of the israeli aerospace industry - the manufacturer of the unmanned aircraft which are being used as genuine killing machines. here too, a rigorous assessment of the possible dual civil/military use of the results of these programmes is required.
in writing. − the treaty of lisbon clarifies the eu's competences in the field of international trade, thus providing a good opportunity to reaffirm the eu's role in this area, the powers and responsibilities of the european parliament within the eu's institutional framework for decision-making. the community's dual-use regime should be organised in a more transparent and democratic way. the full involvement of the european parliament, through the implementation of the obligations arising from the treaty of lisbon and the adoption of a joint interpretation by the european parliament and the european commission under the new framework agreement, will be crucial to achieving this objective. i therefore welcome the council's position and i vote in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation to open a second reading (second stage of the legislative procedure when no consensus was reached at first reading) on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishing a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to adapt the current regulation on the control of exports, transfers, brokering and transit of dual-use items, taking into account recent developments in the international export control regime. the list in annex i to this regulation should therefore be amended, as the council has made other amendments which reflect even more recent changes agreed in this area and which were therefore not included in the commission's initial proposal. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of parliament's position, which supports the council's position.
in writing. - i am voting in favour, because it has been possible to reach compromises which have created a sound and comprehensive text in the references to companies in the financial sector and balanced in the references to other types of companies and pension funds. i share the s&d group's view that more could be done with regard to the role of esma, as its enhanced involvement (in addition to other european supervisory authorities in banking, insurance and pensions) would strengthen the integrity, transparency and efficiency of markets.
in writing. − otc derivatives are contracts traded privately directly between the two parties involved, without any intermediary, so the nature and level of risks involved in these transactions are more difficult to identify. this regulation aims to create conditions to limit the risks and increase the transparency of such contracts. the regulation proposes concrete measures in this regard, including the use of central counterparties, the guarantee that otcs are cleared and the obligation to register them in trade repositories. the need for uniformity in the requirements for derivative contracts, the requirements to be imposed on ccps and on trade repositories is emphasised. this is an area without any kind of regulation so far. this is in response to the call made by the g20 leaders in 2009 to contribute to greater financial market stability. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − it is essential to strengthen the transparency of financial instruments and the limitation of the risks associated with them. this directive contributes to this by providing for the mandatory reporting of relevant information on otc derivative transactions to trade repositories and competent authorities. for these reasons i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' in the definition of motor vehicles. otc derivatives are still not transparent, and the financial crisis has shown that these characteristics increase uncertainty during periods of market stress and therefore pose risks to financial and economic stability.
in writing. − this regulation comes in the context of the strengthening of financial sector supervision in europe and aims to improve the transparency and regulatory oversight of over-the-counter derivatives. it has been stipulated that all information on otc derivative transactions should be disclosed to trade repositories and competent supervisory authorities, including esma, in order to allow for an overall view of this specific market by those authorities. the aim is to increase considerably the stability of financial markets and to prevent future disruptions. i congratulate and support the rapporteur, my friend werner langen, on his conclusions.
in writing. − this report, by werner langen, focuses on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on otc derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories. according to the report, otc derivatives are not transparent because they are privately traded and the terms of the deal are not public, making it difficult to identify the nature and risks involved, as was proven by the current financial crisis. it is therefore urgent and necessary to create mechanisms to increase transparency in this whole process and to limit the risks of this business for greater security of citizens and stability of the economy. they should therefore be cleared through central counterparties (ccps) and reported to trade repositories, holding firms accountable for the risks they assume. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected.
in writing. − this legislative report on otc derivatives provides an insight into the path taken since the outbreak of the deep economic and social crisis in europe in 2008. a crisis which is an expression of the current stage of development of capitalism, characterised by the hypertrophy of the financial sphere, due to the over-accumulation of capital which is confronted with breaks in the expected profitability of the real economy (reflection of the verification of the law of the tendency of the rate of profit to fall). in 2008, several voices were heard, even here in the european parliament, calling for an end to financial derivatives, especially otc derivatives - instruments that were also at the heart of speculation in foodstuffs, inseparable from the brutal price swings in foodstuffs that led to the food crises of 2007/2008. they are now going backwards, as can be seen from the content of this report, which is in many respects even further backwards than the commission's original proposal. financial derivatives are now worth an astronomical amount, equivalent to ten times the world's gdp. a ticking time bomb sign still hanging over the world economy, and which, after the warning issued in 2008, they now want to ignore.
in writing. − the financial products that financial institutions have created over the years have not been properly regulated, which has contributed to the severe financial crisis they have triggered in the past. the absence of a regulatory framework for otc derivatives contributed to the financial crisis and its ensuing consequences. in response to concerns about financial stability, the commission put forward a proposal to regulate this market in september last year. the amendments adopted by parliament today are aimed above all at improving the transparency and risk management of the otc derivatives market, so that the same mistakes with the serious consequences that we all know will not be repeated in the future. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − otc derivatives are contracts traded privately directly between the two parties involved, without any intermediary, so the nature and level of risks involved in these transactions are more difficult to identify. this regulation aims to create conditions to limit the risks and to increase the transparency of such contracts. the regulation proposes concrete measures in this regard, including the use of central counterparties, the guarantee that otcs are cleared and the obligation to register them in trade repositories. the report emphasises the need for uniformity in the requirements for derivative contracts, the requirements to be imposed on central counterparties and on trade repositories. as this is an area without any regulation so far, which responds to the call made by the g20 leaders in 2009, and clearly contributes to the stability of financial markets, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european commission has submitted a proposal to the european parliament and the council which sets out uniform requirements for financial, non-financial and all categories of otc derivative contracts. i am voting in favour of this regulation because it sets out the conditions for authorizing central counterparties and the criteria to be examined to ensure the appropriate characteristics for the mandatory clearing of the derivatives category, with the main objective of reducing systemic risk. i also take this opportunity to say that i support the rules for sanctions laid down by the european commission and supported by the european parliament, which will apply in the event of a breach of the procedures set out in the report, and i will also take the necessary measures to ensure that they are implemented.
in writing. - since 2008 we have been experiencing a crisis which is an expression of the current phase of development of capitalism, characterised by the hypertrophy of the financial sphere, due to the over-accumulation of capital which is confronted with breaks in the expected profitability of the real economy (reflection of the verification of the law of the tendency of the rate of profit to fall). in 2008 there was a call to end financial derivatives - a view shared by several members of the european parliament - in particular otc derivatives, which are nothing more than instruments that were also the basis of speculation in foodstuffs, which was inseparable from the brutal price swings in foodstuffs that led to the food crises of 2007/2008. the report is a prime example of this retreat, which we naturally reject.
in writing. - i am in favour of extending the emf directive, given that there is evidence of the dangers inherent in exposure to physical agents such as these and because the current legislation expires on 30 april 2012. in order to protect workers from this risk, we must maintain strict legislation and put pressure on the council to adopt all the suggestions that parliament may make on this matter.
in writing. − in 2006, the medical community informed the european commission of its concerns about the implementation of directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields), arguing that the exposure limit values provided therein would limit or place disproportionate constraints on the use and development of medical applications of magnetic resonance imaging, which is currently considered a vital tool for the diagnosis and treatment of a range of diseases. i therefore voted in favour of this report which seeks to postpone until 31 october 2013 the deadline for transposing this directive in order to protect workers by ensuring the use of medical mri applications.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution to postpone the deadline for transposing the 2004 directive on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields) because i consider that considerable doubts remain about the limit values for exposure to electromagnetic fields set out in the directive.
in writing. - i support the proposal to postpone, once again, the deadline for transposing the 2004 directive on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from electromagnetic fields. the first postponement was justified by concerns that the exposure limit values for electromagnetic fields set out in the directive could disproportionately limit the use and development of medical applications of magnetic resonance imaging, which play a key role in the diagnosis and treatment of a range of diseases. following the in-depth analysis carried out, the technical complexity of the matter did not allow an agreement to be reached which ensures a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers without disproportionately restricting the pursuit and development of medical activities. the only possible solution is therefore to postpone the transposition by two more years in order to avoid legal uncertainty and negative legal consequences for member states after april 2012, the deadline for transposition, and thus to allow sufficient time for agreement to be reached in the negotiations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report in favour of extending the deadline for transposing directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents from 30 april 2012 to 31 october 2013. the extension of the transposition period will allow a new proposal for a directive to be recast in line with the new international recommendations on the exposure of workers and the public to electromagnetic fields, which became known only in december 2010, and not in 2009 as originally planned.
in writing. - this report, by mrs morin-chartier, focuses on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields) (the 18th individual directive within the meaning of article 16 (1) of directive 89/391/eec). occupational diseases and accidents at work cost european taxpayers many millions of euros a year. anything that can be done to alleviate this situation is commendable. it is not only about improving the quality of life of citizens but also about the financial sustainability of the social area in the member states. i therefore welcome the adoption of this proposal, which i voted in favour of, which, in response to the concerns expressed by the medical community, will ensure a higher level of protection for workers, both in terms of health and safety, for those whose work requires exposure to electromagnetic fields.
in writing. − in 2004, the parliament and the council adopted directive 2004/40/ec on occupational health and safety to protect workers from the risks of electromagnetic fields (emf), which was to have been transposed by member states into national law by 30 april 2008. however, there has been a strong campaign by mri equipment manufacturers and radiology associations to exclude the medical sector with mri equipment (mri scanner) from the scope of the directive. it was argued that mri devices could not meet the limit values set out in the directive and that therefore patients would be deprived of the early detection of various diseases, such as cancer. in this context, the commission proposed in 2007 to postpone the deadline for transposition of the directive by four years. now it renews the same proposal, this time postponing the matter until 2014. our group voted against the postponement of the date of transposition to 2012, which is now consistent with the position taken at that time. this is because it is considered that many workers are being deprived of the health and safety protection at work relating to electromagnetic fields to which they are entitled. that right should be guaranteed and enforced.
in writing. − the technical complexity of the issue requires lengthy discussions with national experts, with highly divergent views on some key provisions of the proposal, and it is therefore unlikely that the european parliament and the council will complete the adoption process before 30 april 2012, as originally planned. in these circumstances, a new directive postponing for the second time the date of transposition of directive 2004/40/ec will be necessary. it is appropriate to avoid a very uncertain legal situation that will arise after 30 april 2012, when all member states will have to transpose directive 2004/40/ec if no further measures are taken. i am therefore in favour of the new date of 31 october 2013 for member states to be obliged to transpose directive 2004/40/ec.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on a proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields). the present case only changes the deadline for transposition of the 2004 directive. the in-depth analysis carried out showed that the technical complexity of the matter did not allow an agreement to be reached which guaranteed a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers without disproportionately restricting the pursuit and development of medical activities involving electromagnetic fields. the only possible solution is therefore to postpone the transposition by two more years in order to avoid legal uncertainty and negative legal consequences for the member states after april 2012, the deadline for transposition, and thus to allow sufficient time for agreement to be reached in the negotiations.
in writing. − the european commission has put forward a proposal amending directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum safety and health requirements for exposure of workers to electric, magnetic and electromagnetic fields at the workplace, requiring workers to use frequencies between 0 and 300 ghz4. i support this regulation because it is essential to protect all workers exposed to these electric fields, thus following the limits set out in the 1998 recommendations of icnirp, an organization whose authority in the field of health effects assessment of this type of radiation is internationally recognized. finally, i would like to stress that the amendments introduced are intended to clarify the definitions in question, to include reference values and to define indicators to facilitate measurements and calculations with the limited flexibility required.
in writing. − in 2004, the parliament and the council adopted directive 2004/40/ec on occupational health and safety to protect workers from the risks of electromagnetic fields (emf), which was to have been transposed by member states into national law by 30 april 2008. the commission proposed in 2007 to postpone the deadline for transposition of the directive by four years to 30 april 2012, and at the same time to initiate a review process based on up-to-date scientific evidence, mainly on magnetic resonance imaging scanners. this decision has led to a huge number of workers being deprived of protection in the field of health and safety at work in relation to electromagnetic fields. the commission has now proposed, by means of an emergency procedure, to postpone the transposition of this directive once again for a period of two years to 30 april 2014. we cannot, in our view, put off any longer measures to safeguard the health and safety of workers in this sector.
in writing. - i approve the report in that it introduces very important amendments with a view to administrative simplification and because it aims to facilitate the exchange of information by computer means on everything that involves the excise duty payment system, especially in order to avoid tax evasion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the council regulation on administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties, as i considered that it contributes to strengthening cooperation between member states in combating fraud and tax evasion in the field of excise duties and therefore envisages the simplification of certain administrative procedures.
in writing. − this regulation seeks to reinforce the need for greater cooperation between the various authorities of the member states in combating fraud and tax evasion in the field of excise duties and considers that this form of cooperation is essential on the way to the creation of a european tax union. i congratulate the rapporteur and support his conclusions.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the existence of different taxation for consumer products creates cross-border problems for member states and implies additional work for customs authorities. the ideal, of course, was a european tax union. until that is possible, good administrative cooperation is essential to prevent the evasion of these taxes. i voted in favour of this report and hope that its implementation will help to improve the fight against fraud and tax evasion.
in writing. the commission's proposal aims to modernise the current common framework for administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties between member states. the regulation focuses on the importance and need for administrative cooperation, particularly in the case of crossborder irregularities, and does not aim at harmonising national laws on the management of special movements of consumption or the taxation of consumer goods, both of which are covered by other legal acts. the commission proposal correctly addresses some important aspects, such as the simplification of some bureaucratic procedures, while considering (and rightly so) that the processing of personal data should be the responsibility of each member state. unfortunately, it is the rapporteur who is seeking to distort the approach to respect for national laws, powers and sovereignty in this area. we therefore regret amendment no 1 tabled by the rapporteur, which calls for the creation of a european tax union. we also reject unjustified references to the internal market and its promotion.
in writing. − the creation of a european tax union must include a broad, fast, efficient, user-friendly and, as far as possible, automatic exchange of information between member states in order to improve the fight against tax evasion. administrative cooperation between member states in the field of excise duties is therefore essential. i think this draft resolution is a good step in that direction. give my vote in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 2073/2004 establishes a legal framework for administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties. the introduction of the system for computerizing the movement and control of excise goods requires a revision of the system. the new regulation will provide the legal basis for the introduction of a new system with new statistical features which could reduce the administrative burden on member states' administrations and at the same time improve the quality of statistical reporting. i therefore voted in favour of this report, since it is a regulation aimed at greater efficiency and transparency in the union.
in writing. − article 113 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the european parliament is to give its opinion on provisions relating to the harmonisation of excise duty legislation as it is essential to ensure the establishment and functioning of the internal market and to avoid distortions of competition. i am voting in favour of this regulation, which aims to improve the exchange of information between member states, to improve the fight against tax evasion and to lay down specific provisions for the collection of statistics. i also believe that it is essential to improve feedback in order to ensure an efficient and continuous improvement in the quality of the information exchanged and to simplify bureaucratic procedures. finally, i believe it is important to set up a forum on vat and excise duties to analyse and discuss progress in the process, and that the commission should report to the european parliament and the council on the application of this regulation.
in writing. − the provisions of regulation (ec) no 2073/2004 establish a legal framework for administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties. those provisions should be revised to take account of the introduction of the system of computerisation of movements and controls of excise goods. the current proposal will repeal regulation (ec) no 2073/2004. the commission proposal aims to modernise the current common framework for administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties between member states. the regulation focuses on the importance and need for administrative cooperation, particularly in the case of crossborder irregularities, and does not aim at harmonising national laws on the management of special movements of consumption or the taxation of consumer goods, both of which are covered by other legal acts. these are positive objectives, and we do not support the rapporteur in his call for a european fiscal union, which would accentuate the federalist character of the eu.
in writing. - i vote in favour. in times of restraint and efforts to consolidate public accounts, the european parliament must show budgetary responsibility and self-restraint. by freezing their own allowances and travel expenses, and by reorganising their working methods, members of parliament should also actively contribute to maintaining budgetary discipline and to maintaining the general evolution of parliament's administrative budget for 2013 under the evolution of the inflation rate.
in writing. − the budget estimates for 2013 seem realistic to me and are designed to encourage savings and the efficient and frugal management of resources. this is what the european citizens expect from the european institutions and in particular from the european parliament. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the european parliament for the financial year 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in the current crisis it is essential to reduce unnecessary costs in the budget allocated to the european parliament. in view of the conclusions of the various financial impact studies on the cost of holding plenary sessions in strasbourg, it is not clear why the european parliament is not confined to brussels.
in writing. − the 2013 budget is still a crisis-time budget and should use rigorous budgetary management processes to deliver savings and set a good example for other institutions and states. in fact, european citizens would not understand if, when they are asked to make sacrifices in their own countries, the european union did not show restraint and efficiency in the management of its own resources. the citizens are asking us to manage the resources allocated to us properly and to save wherever possible. once again, i will vote in favour of the request for a single seat for the european parliament, a proposal which would allow for considerable savings and greater efficiency in the management of both financial and human resources.
in writing. - the report, by derek vaughan, analyses the revenue and expenditure forecast for the financial year 2013 section i european parliament. the economic crisis affecting most eu member states is forcing us to be self-sufficient in our own budget. i therefore welcome this proposal for a modest budget which shows growth of only 1.9%, below the expected rate of inflation, and in line with the commission's request. the cuts introduced are intended not to affect the quality of the services or the efficiency of the work of members. i voted in favour of this report, agreeing with the need to rationalise the means and to implement greater institutional cooperation, both in terms of buildings and human resources.
in writing. − this report on the european parliament's revenue and expenditure forecast for the financial year 2013 focuses on the idea of saving, i.e. reducing the budget at various levels. but it ends up defending cuts where they shouldn't and saying nothing about situations that could and should be called into question. we therefore supported the amendments tabled by our group which sought to clarify some of these issues. we agree that it is important to reduce excessive and disproportionate spending in the european parliament, but it is important to ensure that such savings are not made at the expense of laying off workers, job insecurity or principles such as multilingualism. the report's defence of this principle is hypocritical to say the least, since it ignores the limitations and shortcomings that exist today and defends cuts in the area of translation and interpretation. on the other hand, the report, by its own standards, which it adopts in other areas, is too lenient when it comes to the financing of european parties - which we do not agree with for reasons of principle. in addition, in several parts of the report, the rhetoric of austerity is used to legitimize and justify the violent austerity measures being imposed by governments and the eu.
in writing. − the institutions, in the context of a continuing difficult economic situation, should freeze their administrative budgets, but it is necessary to respect the legally binding obligations and any subsequent increases. the institutions should strengthen interinstitutional cooperation with a view to sharing good practice, seeking savings and thus modernising their policies in the fields of human resources, organisation, technology and buildings. all institutions should therefore seek to make further savings in order to maintain budgetary discipline and freeze their budgets, while bearing in mind legal obligations and new financial challenges such as enlargement to croatia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the european parliament's revenue and expenditure forecast for the financial year 2013, which, among other things, calls for a report on the savings made during the financial year 2012 and, taking into account the levels of performance and the budgetary restraint needed in times of crisis, requires that all appropriations be placed under strict budgetary surveillance.
in writing. - article 314 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the european parliament and the council draw up the union's annual budget, each institution being responsible for presenting the estimates of revenue and expenditure for the year in question. i support this report because it shows that there is an economic rationale behind a number of initiatives which provide for greater savings on the european parliament's expenditure, as can be seen by the eur 3.5 million reduction in parliamentary assistance, the freezing of appropriations for representation expenses, the reorganisation of translation and interpretation activities and the introduction of greater budgetary supervision. i also believe that the ceiling of category 5 of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the union budget, which amounts to eur 9 181 million, should be respected.
in writing. − this report on the european parliament's revenue and expenditure forecast for the financial year 2013 aims to make budget cuts at various levels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. we reject cuts in the area of translation and interpretation, an area which already has several shortcomings. and we do not accept speeches about saving which are only intended to legitimize the so-called austerity measures which impose poverty on thousands of workers and people.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this report as it represents yet another indispensable contribution from the european globalisation adjustment fund. in this case, the situation in spain, which has led to the unemployment of a further 1 138 people, requires an eu response, since it is in line with the objectives of the egf, which is using eur 1.64 million, the appropriate amount for this case. this is the first application of the egf in 2012 and cases such as the one experienced in spain in the field of civil construction should be used to show what the crisis continues to cause, to remind that the derogation from this instrument is still in the hands of the council, after the calls for it to be implemented urgently by the european parliament.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 642 030 from the egf for spain to support the 1138 workers made redundant by 513 companies in the construction sector in the valencian community.
in writing. - this report refers to the mobilisation of eur 1 642 030 from the egf (european globalisation adjustment fund) for one member state, spain, to support the 1 138 workers in the construction sector who were made redundant by 513 companies operating in the valencian community. the objective of the egf is precisely to provide support for workers affected by changes in the structure of international trade, helping them to reintegrate into the labour market, and for workers made redundant as a result of the economic, financial and social crisis affecting europe. i think the eu should use all the means at its disposal, the egf being one of the most important, to provide aid to citizens who have lost their jobs. i therefore voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing. − the construction sector has been particularly affected by the recent economic and financial crisis, with the fall in demand resulting in a decline in the number of women in employment and threatening the viability of multiple construction companies and jobs. in the present case, 1138 workers from 513 companies in the valencian region lost their jobs and can receive european support under the european globalisation adjustment fund. i agree with their mobilisation and would like the sector to be able to recover in a responsible and sustainable way and that the workers now supported can soon successfully re-enter the labour market.
in writing. - this report, by barbara matera, is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2011/006-es/comunidad valenciana construction of buildings/ spain). on 5 february 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the first application to be examined under the eu budget for 2012, submitted to the commission on 1 july 2011, for the mobilisation of an amount of eur 1 642 030, and aims to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 1138 workers from 513 construction companies in the nuts ii region of the valencian community (es52). i am voting in favour of this proposal as the application fulfils the conditions for the mobilisation of the egf and i hope for a rapid recovery of the economic fabric of the valencian region.
in writing. - this report approves the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which is intended to benefit spain, to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis. in this case, eur 1642030 was mobilised to assist more than 1100 workers made redundant in the construction sector, as a result of redundancies in more than 500 companies in the valencian community. there are calls for the egf to be mobilised in cases of mass redundancies of workers outside europe, due to the worsening crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the derogation to cover the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2010 for the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2010 for the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2011. this means that the countries with the greatest economic and social difficulties, those with the highest number of business closures and the highest unemployment, are the ones that will be least able to use this egf. we continue to insist on increasing the co-financing of the egf, especially for countries with weak financial conditions, such as portugal, in order to ensure that the national share does not exceed 5% of the overall financing provided.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid must now be given to spain which has submitted a request for assistance in relation to 1 138 cases of redundancies of workers, all potential beneficiaries of intervention, in 513 enterprises in division 41 (building) of nace revision 2, in the nuts ii region of the valencian community (es52) in spain.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. i voted in favour of this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 642 030 from the egf for spain to support the 1 138 workers made redundant by 513 companies in the construction sector in the valencian community.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the request for the mobilisation of the egf made by spain in respect of the 1138 redundancies in 511 enterprises located in the nuts 2 regions of the valencian community (es52). i believe that the european commission should mobilise eur 1 642 030 to help the integration of spanish construction workers into the labour market. the financial package now approved should be channelled to support measures in the area of vocational guidance, individual training and general information provided through specific employment channels.
in writing. - this report approves the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis, in this case spanish workers. the commission has decided to mobilise eur 1 642 030 to assist more than 1 100 workers made redundant in the construction sector, as a result of redundancies in more than 500 enterprises in the community of valencia. this type of egf call is increasingly referring to cases of mass redundancies of workers outside europe, as policies have led to the worsening of the crisis. the commission is also proposing to extend the derogation to cover the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2010 for the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2010 for the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2010. this means that the countries with the greatest economic and social difficulties, those with the highest number of business closures and the highest unemployment, are the ones that will be least able to use this fund. we continue to advocate an increase in egf co-financing, especially for countries with weak financial conditions, such as portugal, in order to ensure that the national share does not exceed 5% of the overall funding provided.
in writing. - i vote in favour. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament is a co-legislator and its powers are on an equal footing with those of the council in the ordinary legislative and budgetary procedures. this balance will mean that there will no longer be a need to maintain question time for the council in plenary sessions. but it is important to keep that option open when there are matters of political responsibility of the council involved and not the legislative matters i have mentioned. on the other hand, in line with the conference of presidents' views on this matter, it is important to maintain the question times for the commission and the vice-president/high representative and the president of the eurogroup.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, taking into account the development of the european parliament's relations with the institutions representing the national governments, since the committee on constitutional affairs is also in favour of this amendment and because this amendment would bring the relationship between the european parliament and the institutions representing the national governments more into line with the institutional balance resulting from the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that, in the light of the new institutional balance imposed by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, in which parliament has become a co-legislator on most matters, it is not justified to maintain the question period to the council as currently provided for in the rules of procedure.
in writing. - in view of the changes in the institutional balance resulting from the lisbon treaty, the committee on constitutional affairs was largely unanimous in considering that the maintenance of the council question time format as it exists today would not be justified. this amendment is not intended to reduce communication and coordination between the institutions but only to adapt this relationship to the new reality and to amend the rules of procedure accordingly. in the face of the current crisis and the multiple challenges facing the european union, its member states and their peoples, dialogue between the institutions and their joint work is becoming increasingly important.
in writing. - the report under review, by alain lamassoure, deals with the amendment of the rules of procedure in the light of the evolution of the european parliament's (ep) relations with the institutions representing national governments following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which significantly increased the legislative role of the ep. however, by creating new institutions on the government side such as the european council and its president, as well as the high representative and the eurogroup - institutions which have assumed increasing political responsibilities - the political influence of the ep has been diminished, whereas the opposite is desirable. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur that, although the council and the ep exercise their legislative and budgetary functions on an equal footing, the question period for the council should be maintained, since the council, in accordance with the second sentence of article 16 (1) of the treaty on european union, has policy-making and coordination powers which it must inform the ep about.
in writing. - the end of the question time to the council (already established in practice), as it was conceived, is the result of the changes introduced by the lisbon treaty. it is now proposed to create a new specific question period on matters which are within its competence and which are not relevant to the exercise of its legislative and budgetary functions. the institutional changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon, often praised for the increased powers of the european parliament that they entailed, have in fact resulted in a weakening of national parliaments and in structures of legislative power closer to the citizens, which they can better control. the national parliaments have in fact been relegated to the secondary role of prior monitoring of the principle of subsidiarity in the process of drawing up european standards. in portugal, the assembly of the republic has lost its own decision-making power in key areas, increasing only its role as an advisory body, but without the right to veto community decisions with which it disagrees. only in very hypothetical and exceptional cases (of which there is no record yet), and always in conjunction with other national parliaments, can it create some difficulty for the european commission by delaying the legislative process.
in writing. - following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament became the european union's co-legislator and has the same powers as the council with regard to the ordinary legislative and budgetary procedures. in view of this new reality, there is no reason to keep question time to the council on the agenda of the plenary session in its present form, that is, at each part-session. it is however appropriate to maintain the possibility of organising question periods not only for the president of the commission but also for the vice-president/high representative and the president of the eurogroup. in view of the above, however, we think it is useful to continue to have the possibility of asking the council, during a specific question period, questions on matters which are within its competence but which are not relevant to the exercise of its legislative and budgetary functions.
in writing. - the present case concerns the abolition of the question period to the council, as it was conceived until now, by reason of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. after lisbon, the two institutions are on an equal footing as regards legislative and budgetary functions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. in view of these arguments, i have voted in favour of the present procedure.
in writing. - after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament became a co-legislator on an equal footing with the council with regard to the ordinary legislative and budgetary procedures. in the light of this new institutional balance, it is no longer justified to keep question time to the council on the agenda of the plenary session at each part-session. i think it is useful, however, to maintain the possibility of asking the council, during a specific question period, questions on matters which are within its competence but which are not relevant to the exercise of its legislative and budgetary functions. the rapporteur also proposes that the question of the question period to the council be dealt with for the time being, without prejudice to the possibility of a further in-depth study of the developments in relations with the institutions representing national governments and any resulting amendments to the rules of procedure.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this joint motion for a resolution. it is necessary to continue to strongly condemn the continuing deterioration of human rights and fundamental freedoms combined with the lack of reforms towards a fairer democracy and economy in belarus. it is also important that the eu continues to demand the immediate release of all political prisoners in the country. the abolition of the death penalty is another matter, however serious, which requires the eu's utmost commitment.
in writing. the european parliament has called on the commission to take action to ensure that the eu's sanctions against belarus are not used as a pretext for further violence. additional economic sanctions should be applied if this regime continues to systematically violate human rights.
in writing. - belarus is a matter of serious concern for the whole european union. the way in which respect for fundamental rights and civil liberties is deteriorating in that country requires special caution and additional demands on our part. democracy and the rule of law are still a long way from being a reality in belarus. many dissidents and democrats are subject to persecution and illegal detention. the regime still doesn't seem to want to show any signs of change. the union must use the mechanisms at its disposal to promote this same change and to support those who are peacefully struggling for a democratic transition which takes into account the interests of the belarusians and promotes european values.
in writing. − the european parliament has adopted, during its current term of office, several resolutions condemning the regime in belarus for its continued violations of human rights and attacks on the rule of law, values which are unquestionable in the territory of the european union and whose commitment to safeguarding must be inherent in the signature of any treaty or cooperation agreement between the eu and third countries. although belarus is geographically close to the eu, it is politically far away, and the presidential elections in december 2010 did not accelerate the process of democratization in the country. it is therefore urgent to abolish the death penalty and to release immediately and unconditionally all political prisoners held in inhumane conditions and tortured. while agreeing that the eu should maintain good neighbourly relations with belarus, i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution, tabled pursuant to rule 110 (4), as previous resolutions have not had the desired effect and it is imperative that the government in minsk move towards democratization of the country with full respect for human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. - this resolution is a repetition of the eu's manual of intervention, with the aim of trying to extend its sphere of influence beyond russia's borders, by competing with russia for influence over belarus. despite our differences with the authorities in minsk, we do not share the view of the majority in the ep, which not only does not recognise the sovereignty of the belarusian people in defining political power and political, economic, social and cultural reality, but also supports direct interference in their internal affairs, in violation of a basic principle of international law. whether through political and financial support to the opposition and independent media, belarusian civil society and ngos, or through increased cooperation with its eastern neighbours with the shared aim of initiating a genuine democratic process in belarus. for our part, we have as a fundamental principle the defence of the independence and sovereignty of peoples; it is up to each people to define the political, economic and social system which best meets the interests and aspirations of the people at the individual and collective level.
in writing. − the political situation in belarus has deteriorated severely since the presidential elections on 19 december 2010, with repressive measures against members of the democratic opposition, independent media, civil society activists and human rights defenders, despite calls from the international community for an immediate end to them; what is happening in belarus should concern all those who believe in democracy and the rule of law. the citizens of this country live under a regime which does not respect human rights and which maintains a very castrating political police. the eu must support all efforts to democratize this regime, which means improving the lives of its people. the repressive measures still in force in belarus must be brought to an end.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it supports the european parliament's call on the european commission to maintain financial and political support for all those who want to promote democracy and also the future of the belarusian community.
in writing. − eu-belarus diplomatic relations continue to deteriorate day by day as the belarusian authorities insist on taking undemocratic measures and actions, including the persecution of opposition members, journalists, civil society activists and human rights defenders, and the closure of media outlets. at the same time, the statement by the belarusian authorities, who considered the eu ambassador and the polish ambassador personae non gratae, led to the complete blockade of bilateral relations. there will be dialogue only if belarus takes the necessary steps to implement a genuine rule of law, based on the defence of human rights and the release of political prisoners who oppose the current government.
in writing. - the majority of the eu shows creativity and even a certain fantasy in the way it draws up its recurring resolutions on belarus. this time even the hosting of the 2014 ice hockey world championships escapes his hypocritical wits. this text is a repetition of the eu's manual of intervention in order to try to extend its sphere of influence to the borders of russia. despite our differences with the authorities in minsk, we do not share the view of the majority in the ep, which not only does not recognise the sovereignty of the belarusian people in defining political power and political, economic, social and cultural reality, but also supports direct interference in their internal affairs, in violation of a basic principle of international law. whether through political and financial support to the opposition and independent media, belarusian civil society and ngos, or through increased cooperation with its eastern neighbours. we have as our fundamental principle the defence of the independence and sovereignty of peoples; it is up to each people to define the political, economic and social system that best meets the interests and aspirations of the people at the individual and collective level.
in writing. - i approve these appointments. this special committee now set up has a most important job to do. the fight against crime, in particular organised crime, corruption and money laundering, is a serious obstacle to the development of democracy and social justice. it is a good time to give this fight a new lease of life and i am sure that the colleagues appointed to the committee will carry out their duties with all the commitment and independence that matters of this nature require.
in writing. − i wish the nominees every success in the important task for which they are now appointed, and i am convinced that they will carry out their new duties with all their dedication and competence.
in writing. - i approve this report because it creates a european endowment for democracy, which is the culmination of a process which began after the events in the southern mediterranean countries, when parliament began to reflect on how to act in favour of democracy. i think that this mechanism is useful in supporting activists and mechanisms seeking democratic development in their territories and thus being associated with eu diplomacy and the european commission's actions. i should like to stress the important contribution made by the european parliament in this area, which requires its involvement in all the processes henceforth associated with this fund, including its creation, the definition of its structure and decisions on its allocation.
in writing. − in may 2011, following the events in the southern mediterranean, eu high representative and vice-president of the commission catherine ashton and commissioner stefan füle put forward the idea of a european endowment for democracy (edd). the aim is to create a semi-autonomous entity that can support democracy advocates as well as democratic developments around the world. the creation of this new fund is a more appropriate and effective means than a review of existing instruments, in particular the european instrument for democracy and human rights. it should be ensured that the edd performs complementary and synergistic functions with respect to the work carried out by the eu institutions, including the european parliament, the member states, their agencies and the foundations funded by them. the edf should pay particular attention to the participation of women in the process of democratic reform by supporting women's organisations and projects, such as combating violence, job creation and political participation, broadening equal access to justice and education, and preventing or eradicating existing violations of women's rights. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the idea of a european endowment for democracy (edd) was put forward in may 2011 by the eu high representative and vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, together with commissioner stefan füle, following the analysis of developments in the southern mediterranean. the ded is intended to be a semi-autonomous body that can support democracy advocates anywhere in the world, with particular attention to the participation of women in the democratic reform process. the edd will be further proof that the european parliament stands with those who are fighting for democratic change and the promotion of equal rights for men and women in all countries of the world. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - the recent movements and revolutions in north africa show how all citizens and countries aspire to live in democracy. in this context, the idea that the eu could create and promote a european endowment for democracy can only be welcomed. the european parliament, the greatest example of democratic legitimacy, is clearly on the side of all those who want to make the path of change, transition and the construction of the highest values of peace, freedom and democracy.
in writing. − the popular demonstrations against totalitarian regimes that took place on the southern shore of the mediterranean in 2010 and 2011 became known as the arab spring. thanks to this revolt, many peoples won their freedom and began a process of transition to democracy. the report under review, by alexander graf lambsdorf, concerns a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the modalities for the eventual creation of a european endowment for democracy (edd). it is an idea that has emerged from the wide-ranging debate on the european union's actions to promote democracy globally and aims to create a semi-autonomous body that can support democracy advocates and democratic developments around the world in a non-bureaucratic way and that is not directly related to eu diplomacy or the european commission. i voted in favour of this report and welcome the adoption of the proposal for a european democracy fund, which has been supported by the eu high representative and vice-president of the commission catherine ashton and commissioner štefan füle and has been considered a priority by the polish presidency of the council.
in writing. − the objective to be achieved with the instrument proposed in this report is clear: to create better conditions for interference in the internal affairs of sovereign countries, to better serve the interests of the eu powers and their economic and financial groups. the similarity of this instrument to the one existing in the united states for the same purposes is, moreover, obvious and very significant. new interferences are looming, new violations of international law and the un charter, to add to so many other violations of instruments that the eu hypocritically claims to respect. with this instrument, they want to overcome the insufficiency of resources, the restricted mandate of the so-called instrument for democracy and human rights (iedhr), its limitations and its lack of flexibility to promote change. what change do you want to promote? what happened in libya, afghanistan, iraq or honduras? what democracy can be promoted by an eu which itself attacks democracy within its own borders, which wants to enshrine in its constitutions the golden rule of neoliberalism, attacking the historical and civilizational rights and achievements of workers and peoples?
in writing. − the idea of a european endowment for democracy emerged from the eu's debate on the analysis of eu policies and actions in promoting democracy, following the events in the southern mediterranean. the aim is to create a semi-autonomous body that can support democracy advocates and democratic developments worldwide in a non-bureaucratic way and that is not directly related to eu diplomacy or the european commission. this idea was put forward in may this year by the eu high representative and vice-president of the commission catherine ashton and commissioner štefan füle in the new proposal for the european neighbourhood policy. it is now up to parliament to contribute constructively to the debate which has proceeded rapidly and to ensure that it will be involved in the establishment, governance structure and monitoring of a possible european fund.
in writing. − in may 2011, following the events in the southern mediterranean, eu high representative and vice-president of the commission catherine ashton and commissioner stefan füle put forward the idea of a european endowment for democracy (edd). the aim is to create a semi-autonomous entity that can support democracy advocates as well as democratic developments around the world. the creation of this new fund is a more appropriate and effective means than a review of existing instruments, in particular the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr). in view of the above, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the idea of creating a european endowment for democracy arose in an eu debate on european policies and actions in promoting democracy, following the events in the southern mediterranean. the aim is to create a semi-autonomous body to support democracy advocates and democratic developments in the world in a non-bureaucratic way and not be directly related to eu diplomacy or the european commission. i support the european parliament's position and hope that it will be involved in the establishment, governance and monitoring of a possible european fund for this purpose.
in writing. − the objectives of this report are very clear: to support the creation of better conditions for interference in the internal affairs of countries to better serve the interests of the eu's economic and financial groups. if this instrument is confirmed - similar to the one already created by the us - we will see a violation of international law and the un charter, in addition to so many other violations of instruments which the eu hypocritically claims to respect. with this instrument they want to overcome the insufficiency of resources, the narrow mandate of the instrument for democracy and human rights (iedhr), its limitations and its lack of flexibility to promote change. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. what change can we expect when in reality the aim is to weaken popular resistance, discredit and weaken democracy in order to win support for authoritarian solutions? what democracy can be promoted by an eu which wants to enshrine in its constitutions the golden rule of neoliberalism, attacking the rights and achievements of workers and peoples, public health services, education and transport?
in writing. the european parliament has voted in favour of the report, which calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. there is, however, still much work ahead. european integration must continue along its path, maintaining high standards on the level of maturity of democratic structures or human rights, and making enlargement work for the benefit of all european citizens.
in writing. - i am aware that despite the problems we face and the crisis we are going through, the eu remains a model of stability, economic capacity, respect for fundamental rights, democratic vitality and quality of life. many states want to get in and none want to get out. i also recognize the role that the prospect of enlargement can play in third countries. turkey's long march towards a stage closer to a democratic state of law is a clear example of this. but i think we have to be mindful of the times we're living in. as long as the crisis persists and we have not been able to solve our institutional problems (more decision-making agility, strengthening economic governance, making the citizens' europe more effective), i do not think it is prudent to continue along the path of enlargement. that is why i abstained on 1 december in my decision to approve croatia's accession to the european union. for the same reasons, i shall abstain today on the kacin report on serbia's european integration process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in favour of serbia's eu accession, following up on the council's promise to make it viable if serbia continues its reforms, strengthens democracy and upholds the rule of law. serbia could become an important actor in ensuring peace, security and stability in the balkan region.
in writing. - as i have already said, anyone looking at a map of the european union will quickly understand that the western balkans region has a vocation to integrate it. it will never be too much to stress the role that serbia can play in that region and how its final pacification will never happen without its commitment. i would like to reiterate that serbia's path has been particularly hard and violent since the break-up of the former yugoslavia following the overthrow of soviet power, and that the tensions still existing in the region, including that in kosovo, retain a huge destabilising potential. i reiterate my wish that serbia will continue to pursue the european option and i can only congratulate its people and its main leaders on the progress made in this respect. although i do not deny that the union must manage the timetable of its future enlargements with prudence and rigour, and that serbia has a number of reforms to undertake, i nevertheless consider it fair to consider it a candidate country.
in writing. - the enlargement policy of the european union is one of the most successful areas, which has helped to bring peace and development to many peripheral countries. the motion for a resolution deals with the enlargement of the eu to include the republic of serbia. we all remember the conflicts in the balkans and therefore welcome all efforts to consolidate peace and encourage economic development in those countries. on 1 march, the european council granted serbia the status of candidate country for accession. this distinction gives it greater responsibility for implementing the reforms required under the copenhagen treaty, in particular the reform of the judiciary, the fight against xenophobia, organised crime and respect for minorities. serbia is a central country in the balkans whose example of democratization and the fight against corruption can and should be an example for the neighbouring countries, and to do so it must comply with the terms of the pristina agreement and accept the independence of kosovo. i voted in favour of this report and i hope that accession negotiations will be opened soon so that all serbs can enjoy a brighter future.
in writing. the european council granted serbia the status of candidate country for eu membership. this status presupposes that belgrade accepts negotiations with pristina to recognize the independence of kosovo, a process which, we will recall, was carried out in flagrant violation of the charter of the united nations and the helsinki act and which constituted an illegal decision in the light of the most basic principles of international law. the great powers of nato and the eu have created and imposed a protectorate through aggression and military occupation and want to force the serbian people to accept the violation of their territorial integrity and sovereignty. the process of serbia's accession to the eu is inseparable from the historical path that led to the destruction of yugoslavia. the sowing of ethnic divisions, the aggression and support for the destruction of this country are inseparable from the purpose of economic domination of the resulting countries. the resolution also seeks to hold serbia responsible for the legitimate protests that have recently taken place in kosovo, seeking to camouflage the eu and nato powers' own responsibilities for the deterioration of the economic and social situation in the territory. its origin lies, first and foremost, in the maintenance of its occupation.
in writing. the european project, as a project for promoting peace and economic and social equity between peoples, is part of the very notion of enlargement. in this context, i am in favour of the progressive enlargement of the european union to include other countries and other peoples. in any event, i believe that this enlargement must take account of the european union's own capacity to integrate new states while maintaining the standards of respect for human rights and the promotion of social justice. in the present economic and social crisis, this imperative is even stronger. in this context, i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the process of european integration in serbia.
in writing. − the integration of the western balkan countries into the european process is of the utmost importance for a region which has been ravaged by ethnic wars and whose effects are still very much alive in the process of democratic stabilisation. for these reasons, it is up to the eu to support the stability of this region, which is part of the european continent, by taking the next step: the approval of the candidate status in the next council. in addition to the copenhagen criteria, the country has shown progress in supporting european eulex and international kfor forces. however, the question of kosovo remains, and it remains under sovereignty overseen by the international community, including the un. the european union calls on the serbian authorities to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the internet. it is necessary for both sides to continue dialogue and cooperation with each other in order to boost economic growth and ensure the protection of the freedoms and guarantees of citizens, regardless of ethnicity. finally, i consider it essential that the stabilisation and association agreement with kosovo be concluded in order to promote its development.
in writing. - serbia now has eu candidate status, granted by the european council. this status presupposes that belgrade accepts negotiations with pristina to recognize the independence of kosovo, a process which, we will recall, was promoted through a flagrant violation of the united nations charter and the helsinki act and an illegal decision in the light of the most basic principles of international law. the great powers of nato and the eu have created and imposed a protectorate through aggression and military occupation, and they want to force the serbian people to accept the violation of their territorial integrity and sovereignty. the process of serbia's accession to the eu is one of many ongoing processes which demonstrate how the sowing of ethnic divisions, the aggression and support for the destruction of yugoslavia were aimed at economic domination of the resulting countries, their natural resources, the exploitation of their workers and the destruction of the immense social achievements of the peoples. the resolution also seeks to hold serbia responsible for the legitimate protests that have recently taken place in kosovo, and to conceal the responsibility of the eu and nato powers for the deterioration of the economic and social situation in the territory, which is caused by the continuation of the occupation.
in writing. - i vote in favour. i stress the need for belgrade and pristina to continue their dialogue and find better solutions for the daily lives of their citizens. the agreement on kosovo's participation in regional forums will allow kosovo to speak with its own voice, but this development also opens the way to the eu, including the establishment of contractual relations, as all the criteria set by the commission will be met.
in writing. - i am aware that despite the problems we face and the crisis we are going through, the eu remains a model of stability, economic capacity, respect for fundamental rights, democratic vitality and quality of life. many states want to get in and none want to get out. i also recognize the role that the prospect of enlargement can play in third countries. turkey's long march towards a stage closer to a democratic state of law is a clear example of this. but i think we have to be mindful of the times we're living in. as long as the crisis persists and we have not been able to solve our institutional problems (more decision-making agility, strengthening economic governance, making the citizens' europe more effective), i do not think it is prudent to continue along the path of enlargement. that is why i abstained on 1 december in my decision to approve croatia's accession to the european union. for the same reasons, i shall abstain today on the lunacek report on the process of european integration in kosovo.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the eu accession process will contribute to the economic and social development of kosovo. the country faces a number of challenges, including institutional reform, budgetary discipline, the resettlement of refugees and the fight against corruption. however, progress in the area of women's rights and gender equality should be highlighted.
in writing. − the recognition of kosovo's independence remains a contentious issue for five of the 27 member states. this circumstance well denotes the non-consensual way in which it achieved that status and the doubts it still raises internationally. irregularities of various kinds are raising fears about the viability of kosovo. the authorities in pristina must not only declare themselves supportive but also deliver results in the implementation of european values and good practice in democracy, the rule of law and human rights. serbia is crucial to the stabilisation of the common borders. the european union can play an important role in seeking dialogue and reducing animosity between the two.
in writing. the resolution under consideration, tabled following the council and commission statements, concerns the enlargement of the eu to the republic of kosovo. we all remember the conflicts in the western balkans and therefore welcome all efforts to consolidate peace and encourage economic development in the countries of the region. despite the political problems between serbia and kosovo, the reality is that the declaration of independence of kosovo has already been recognised by 85 countries (22 of which are member states of the european union). in 2003, at the thessaloniki european council, the countries of the western balkans were promised eu membership. this commitment was renewed in sarajevo in june 2010. we agree that kosovo's future is in the eu. we therefore welcome the reforms under way and urge the kosovar authorities to continue the fight against corruption and organised crime, to cooperate with neighbouring countries and to orient their structures towards a market economy. i voted in favour of this proposal and i hope that accession negotiations will be opened soon so that all kosovars can have a more prosperous future.
in writing. - we have said so in the past and the reality has been to confirm it: the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo was a very serious event and a dangerous precedent in terms of disregard for international law, with potentially not entirely foreseeable consequences for the stability of borders, particularly on the european continent. it was a flagrant violation of the charter of the united nations and the helsinki charter and an illegal decision in the light of the most basic principles of international law. it is stressed that this illegality is still not recognised by many countries, including the eu, despite the repeated wishes expressed by the majority of this parliament. the reality has shown that the artificial creation of this pseudo-state, a genuine protectorate under supervised sovereignty - a strange concept - did not result from a sovereign will of the people but from an imposition, through aggression and military occupation, by the us, nato and the eu - which is maintained through kfor and which is seconded by the eu's eulex mission. we are faced with an attempt to perpetuate, through the politics of the done deal, the political, economic and military domination of this important region of europe by the us and the major powers of the eu.
in writing. - it is unanimous that the countries belonging to the western balkans region have a vocation to become members of the eu. in the near future, that will be a reality. in this set is kosovo, which has had a difficult journey since the end of the former yugoslavia following the capitulation of the soviet empire. however, the so-called kosovo war, which remains unresolved and is very controversial throughout the international community, has also helped to make peace in this region not yet a reality. as i have never personally supported the process of independence for kosovo, i cannot vote in favour of this motion for a resolution, so i have abstained.
in writing. the european project, as a project for promoting peace and economic and social equity between peoples, is part of the very notion of enlargement. in this context, i am in favour of the progressive enlargement of the european union to include other countries and other peoples. in any event, i believe that this enlargement must take account of the european union's own capacity to integrate new states while maintaining the standards of respect for human rights and the promotion of social justice. in the present economic and social crisis, this imperative is even stronger. in this context, i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i consider that the european perspective of kosovo, like that of the whole western balkans region, is a powerful incentive for the necessary reforms. i am concerned about the serious irregularities observed during the parliamentary elections in december 2010 and consider it essential to swiftly implement the constitutional and electoral reforms promised to the electorate after the elections, in order to make the electoral system more transparent and in line with international standards, in particular those of the council of europe. i also stress the importance of the eulex rule of law mission, which is a tangible proof of the full commitment of the eu and its member states to this end, and i support european initiatives to enhance the efficiency and acceptance of this mission throughout kosovo.
in writing. as we said at the time and as reality has shown, the unilateral declaration of independence of the serbian province of kosovo was a very serious event and a dangerous precedent in international law, with unforeseeable consequences for the stability of borders, particularly on the european continent. it was a flagrant violation of the charter of the united nations and the helsinki charter and an illegal decision in the light of the most basic principles of international law. the reality is that the artificial creation of a pseudo-state under surveillance sovereignty - whatever that is - was anything but sovereignty. it was a protectorate created and imposed by the us, nato and the eu through aggression and military occupation - which is maintained through kfor and is seconded by the eu's eulex mission. it was an attempt to perpetuate through the politics of the done-it-now political, economic and military domination of this very important region of europe by the us and the major powers of the eu. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament.
in writing. - i approve this report because it remains focused on what is most important in this process of turkish integration. the agenda which the commission has prepared to give a new impetus to relations between the european union and turkey, which strongly emphasizes the need to address the problems in the judicial system and to improve the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, is in line with this.
in writing. - i am aware that despite the problems we face and the crisis we are going through, the eu remains a model of stability, economic capacity, respect for fundamental rights, democratic vitality and quality of life. many states want to get in and none want to get out. i also recognize the role that the prospect of enlargement can play in third countries. turkey's long march towards a stage closer to a democratic rule of law is a clear example of this. but i think we have to be mindful of the times we're living in. as long as the crisis persists and we have not been able to solve our institutional problems (more decision-making agility, strengthening economic governance, making the citizens' europe more effective), i do not think it is prudent to continue along the path of enlargement. that is why i abstained on 1 december in my decision to approve croatia's accession to the european union. for the same reasons, i shall abstain today on the oomen-ruijten report on the process of european integration in turkey.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action against terrorism. the existence of laws restricting media freedom remains a concern. turkey should take additional measures to reform its judicial system and protect civil liberties. it is also necessary to guarantee equal rights for women, adopt a zero-tolerance policy on violence against women and children and ensure the widest possible access to education.
in writing. - turkey is an important partner of the european union, to which it has long aspired. the geostrategic importance of turkey and the european interest in its support and cooperation, particularly in the stabilization of the mediterranean region and relations with the islamic world, are undeniable. the long road turkey has travelled towards convergence with europe is undeniable, as are the significant differences it still shows on this path. it is also true that some member states still have doubts about their full accession to the european union. this undeniable fact cannot detract from what i consider essential: the establishment of a consistent, lasting and mutually beneficial partnership that strengthens trust and promotes knowledge and cohesion between the parties.
in writing. the report under review, by ria oomen-ruijten, deals with the enlargement of the european union to include turkey, a country to which the european council has granted candidate country status. turkey is a country with which the eu has a privileged relationship, not only because of its strong economic growth but also because of its geostrategic importance in a region where an energy corridor is vital to europe. the eu has been open to helping bring about the ongoing reforms in turkey - by strengthening cooperation ties and minimising tensions in the region - including the drafting of a new constitution following the recent elections. i hope that the prospect of accession will therefore act as a driving force for reform, particularly with regard to fundamental rights, both in the area of freedom of expression and in the judicial sector. i voted in favour of this report and i hope that during the cypriot presidency in the second half of this year the issues which are clouding the relations between turkey and cyprus will be overcome. this requires turkey to withdraw its troops who have been illegally occupying part of cypriot territory for more than 35 years.
in writing. - despite the many contradictions in the process, turkey's accession to the eu is in the interest of the major european powers, serving the interests of economic groups and clear geostrategic interests. the control of the turkish economy and the use of its geostrategic position in relation to the middle east, caucasus and central asia, particularly for access to energy sources (and control of their flows) and markets in these regions, is the ultimate objective. the resolution is illustrative of this desire, recognising the interdependence between the eu and turkey and their relevant role in regional stability and energy security. turkey, a nato member, is a major player in the region, as demonstrated by the role it is playing in destabilising syria and the internal conflict that continues to be supported from its borders. the resolution minimizes or ignores the repression of workers, trade unionists and left-wing forces. the council has not yet taken a decision on the matter, but it is not yet in a position to take a decision on the matter. turkey continues to occupy the north of the island militarily, to settle turkish citizens in order to alter its demographic balance and to disregard un resolutions.
in writing. the european union is also considering the possibility of a new round of negotiations with turkey. the persistent occupation of part of cyprus, the refusal to open ports and airports in that area, the violation of the rights of political, religious and ethnic minorities, the negative discrimination against women, the decision to exclude parties, and the repeal of legislation limiting the jurisdiction of military courts are some illustrative examples of this. added background questions: the majority of turkey is not geographically europe, turkey has an islamic identity that is very different from the judeo-christian identity of most eu countries, strategically, an eu with borders with iraqi kurdistan would not be convenient, and the secularity of the state is only guaranteed by military imposition. all this does not prevent the recognition of the efforts made by turkey in recent years to meet some of the eu's criteria of need, and it even points out the invaluable role of this country within nato. the relevant question will be whether it is not preferable to grant turkey a privileged and preferential partnership status with the eu, rather than creating false expectations and hopes for accession, which facts and circumstances will hardly allow.
in writing. the european project, as a project for promoting peace and economic and social equity between peoples, is part of the very notion of enlargement. in this context, i am in favour of the progressive enlargement of the european union to include other countries and other peoples. in any event, i believe that this enlargement must take account of the european union's own capacity to integrate new states while maintaining the standards of respect for human rights and the promotion of social justice. in the present economic and social crisis, this imperative is even stronger. in this context, i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the 2011 progress report on turkey.
in writing. - turkey's first application to join the european project dates back to the late 1980s, but it was not until 2005 that accession negotiations began. turkey, because of its geostrategic position, is a key country for the stability of the western balkans and the middle east. on the other hand, its military potential as a member of nato and its energy potential as an alternative source to the eu are some of the key elements for its entry into the group of 27. however, their non-integration is mainly due to political factors and not to the effective application of the copenhagen criteria. the turkish state is called upon to initiate reforms in the judicial field, to involve all parties in the drafting of the new civil constitution, to remove military power from the political sphere, and to fully respect human and minority rights. on the other hand, there is the question of the non-application in full of the additional protocol to the eu-turkey association agreement, the non-liberalisation of visas and the existing obstacles to trade. finally, i would like to stress that turkey must make efforts to reconcile with its neighbours and strengthen its role, particularly in the question of the unification of cyprus.
in writing. - as we have repeatedly stressed, the eu accession process for turkey, promoted by the great powers - not without contradictions - aims at integrating this great country into the eu's single market, controlling its economy and using its geostrategic position in relation to the middle east, the caucasus and central asia, particularly for access to and control of energy sources and markets in these regions. the resolution is illuminating on this issue, recognising the interdependence between the eu and turkey and its relevant role in regional stability and energy security. turkey, a nato member, is a major player in the region, as demonstrated by the role it is playing in destabilising syria. the resolution minimizes or ignores the repression of workers, trade unionists, leftist forces and the turkish people. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in cyprus, adopted on 14 june, calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the eu's position on cyprus is respected.
in writing. - i vote in favour. i note that there has been some progress on concerns raised by the eu, such as those related to organised crime and corruption. but the state of montenegro still has to work in several areas, such as improving its rule of law, judicial reform, human rights and continuing the fight against corruption and organised crime. but today it is important to highlight a growing problem: attacks against journalists, which should be seen as attacks on montenegrin society as a whole.
in writing. - i am aware that despite the problems we face and the crisis we are going through, the eu remains a model of stability, economic capacity, respect for fundamental rights, democratic vitality and quality of life. many states want to get in and none want to get out. i also recognize the role that the prospect of enlargement can play in third countries. turkey's long march towards a stage closer to a democratic state of law is a clear example of this. but i think we have to be mindful of the times we're living in. as long as the crisis persists and we have not been able to solve our institutional problems (more decision-making agility, strengthening economic governance, making the citizens' europe more effective), i do not think it is prudent to continue along the path of enlargement. that is why i abstained on 1 december in my decision to approve croatia's accession to the european union. for the same reasons, i shall abstain today on the tannock report on the 2001 interim report on montenegro.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that montenegro has achieved a high degree of compliance with the criteria for accession to the union and has obtained satisfactory overall results on the key priorities. the eu should send a positive signal to montenegro and other countries struggling to meet the accession criteria and set a date for the start of negotiations.
in writing. - as i have already said, montenegro has shown that it is determined to persevere in its european choice and the consensus on the idea of joining the union persists, despite the current crisis in montenegro. the necessary structural reforms should not be limited to the formal level but should involve consequential and lasting political and civic changes. i welcome the decision of the european council to open accession negotiations with montenegro and, despite the necessary rigour and prudence in the way i believe enlargements should be conducted in the future, i hope that they will be conducted with seriousness by both sides and that they will be based on the country's compliance with objective criteria previously established.
in writing. − montenegro is a very beautiful country in the western balkans, where tourism is fundamental to its economy, a situation which is reflected in its good neighbourly relations. on 28 june 2006, the united nations recognised the republic of montenegro as an independent state, following the official declaration of the montenegrin parliament of 3 june 2006. in december 2010, the european council, in pursuance of the european union's enlargement policy, granted it the status of a candidate country for accession. in the light of this report, i welcome the progress made by montenegro towards accession, in particular the ongoing constitutional reform through constructive dialogue with opposition parties, the fight against corruption and organised crime, the judicial reform and the guarantee of respect for fundamental freedoms. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and i encourage the montenegrin authorities to pursue reforms in the areas which still fall short of fully meeting the accession criteria so that montenegro can very soon be part of the eu.
in writing. - eu accession remains a strategic objective to be achieved by the elites of the countries that inherited the destruction of yugoslavia, such as montenegro. the reality is that after they exacerbated the ethnic divisions, trying to replace the administrative borders of yugoslavia with borders of ethnic nationality, the situation not only did not improve but the living conditions of these peoples regressed. the ethnic divisions are far from over, and there is a serious risk of new conflicts in montenegro and other countries in the region. europe is now presented as a step towards a bright future, its virtues being contrasted with past misfortunes - forgetting that these were, after all, instigated or endorsed by the major powers of nato and the eu. the point is, as always, to impose economic domination, to exploit the people and their natural resources.
in writing. − montenegro, as a candidate for future eu membership, has shown a willingness to stick to its european option. the determination of its leaders and the changes that have been taking place in the country in order to meet the eu's requirements, in particular with regard to democracy, human rights and respect for the rule of law. despite the progress made, it is not enough and montenegro must continue to make efforts until it is ready to join the european union. i hope that this determination will continue to bear fruit and that convergence with the eu will become a reality so that montenegro can provide better living conditions for its people and improve the functioning of its sovereign organs to become an increasingly consistent state.
in writing. the european project, as a project for promoting peace and economic and social equity between peoples, is part of the very notion of enlargement. in this context, i am in favour of the progressive enlargement of the european union to include other countries and other peoples. in any event, i believe that this enlargement must take account of the european union's own capacity to integrate new states while maintaining standards of respect for human rights and the promotion of social justice. in the present economic and social crisis, this imperative is even stronger. in this context, i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the 2011 progress report on montenegro.
in writing. − i support parliament's resolution welcoming the european council's decision to set june 2012 as the date for the start of accession negotiations with montenegro, as i consider it necessary to send a positive signal to montenegro and other countries striving to meet the criteria for accession to the union. i welcome the legislative measures taken to improve the functioning of the national parliament and welcome the adoption of amendments to the law on the election of members of municipal assemblies and parliamentarians. for these reasons i voted in favour of the document in the european parliament.
in writing. − for the elites of the countries that inherited the destruction of yugoslavia, such as montenegro, eu membership remains an objective to be achieved at any cost, presenting europe as a radiant step for the future of its peoples and countries, the moment when ethnic contradictions and conflicts could disappear once and for all. the reality is that after exacerbating the ethnic divisions and seeking to replace the administrative borders of yugoslavia with those of ethnic nationality, the situation has not only not improved but the living conditions of these peoples have regressed. the ethnic divisions are far from resolved and there is a serious risk that new actors and new conflicts will emerge in montenegro and other countries in the region. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. after having divided, attacked and opened wounds among these peoples, the great powers of the eu and nato intend to impose their economic dominance, exploit their peoples and their natural resources.
in writing. - it is unanimous that the countries belonging to the western balkans region have a vocation to become members of the eu. in the near future, that will be a reality. in this group is serbia, which has had a difficult journey since the end of the former yugoslavia, following the capitulation of the soviet empire. on the other hand, the fratricidal wars in which it was involved and the brutal impact of these on the neighbouring countries and the entire international community, brought unpleasant consequences for it and its citizens. the so-called kosovo war, which remains unresolved and is very controversial throughout the international community, has also helped to make peace in this region not yet a reality. it is therefore desirable that serbia should continue to move closer to the european option. i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate its leaders and its citizens on the efforts and progress they have made.
in writing. - my final abstention on these eu enlargements is due to the recognition of the political importance of enlargement coming to fruition, underlined by the need to ensure that the current situation of disruption in the functioning of the euro area and the european union is stabilised, otherwise the opposite of the intended consequence will occur, both for the union and for the countries concerned.
in writing. - i approve this report because, while welcoming the green paper launched by the european commission on the corporate governance framework for european companies, it regrets that important corporate governance issues such as board decision-making, directors' liability, directors' independence, conflicts of interest or stakeholder participation have not been addressed by the paper, which should be an important basis for the review of the framework on this subject.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution calling for accountability and transparency in corporate governance. simple and transparent rules on corporate governance are a prerequisite for the smooth functioning of the european internal market and strengthen the trust placed in european companies by citizens and consumers, which in turn contributes to the growth and increased competitiveness of european companies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the creation of a more transparent, stable, reliable and accountable business sector in the eu. it is essential to ensure that the business sector takes account of social, ethical and environmental concerns in its practices and that it takes responsibility both towards employees and shareholders of companies and towards society at large.
in writing. − the proper functioning of the internal market depends to a large extent on good corporate governance rules and, consequently, on the trust placed in companies by european citizens and consumers. it is important to use the current crisis as an opportunity to improve corporate governance and a proportionate and flexible approach to corporate governance should be applied, given the diverse nature of existing national frameworks and of the companies themselves. such rules can never be taxable and compulsory, but they are standards to which companies voluntarily adhere. i would also remind you that, although more uniform and perhaps more stringent rules in this area are desirable, the commission should avoid the temptation to create excessive bureaucratic burdens, taking into account the need for growth and competitiveness of european companies.
in writing. − on 5 april 2011, the commission launched the green paper on the european union framework for corporate governance. this report focuses on the corporate governance framework for european companies. we are aware of the importance of smes in the economic recovery of the eu, particularly in terms of economic growth and job creation. the creation of a more transparent, stable and reliable european business sector is therefore essential. in addition to the important contributions of the green paper, there are other aspects of good governance that need to be addressed urgently, such as the accountability and independence of directors, the constitution and decision-making of boards of directors, as well as conflicts of interest and stakeholder involvement, in particular of minority shareholders. we need companies with an eye to the future and not just thinking about immediate profit for the satisfaction of shareholders, but looking to ensure the stability and financial sustainability of the company. i voted in favour of this report because the eu needs a new legislative framework which, in addition to encouraging women's participation in the corporate bodies, sets out a set of measures to promote good governance.
in writing. - this report has a clear ideological stamp. the neoliberal vision that inspires him is very evident, among other things, in the miraculous idea of the existence of an ethic in capitalism. the call for accountability and transparency on the part of company boards is an example of this. many of the real causes and consequences of the crisis of capitalism which is striking hard at the workers and peoples of europe are being virtually whitewashed or obscured. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it is with this old and backward view that we must break.
in writing. − it is important to create a more transparent, stable, reliable and accountable business sector in the eu, with better corporate governance. the business sector should be in a position to take account of social, ethical and environmental concerns in its practices, and to demonstrate its responsibilities both towards workers and shareholders in companies and towards society at large, and to ensure better economic performance and the creation of decent jobs. i think it is unwise, however, that in a report of this importance, there should be an attempt to give a vague approval to the introduction of quotas for women on the boards of directors. i therefore voted against this amendment. i think that this kind of subject should be dealt with in its own right and not in a report of this kind.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the proper functioning of the internal market depends to a large extent on good corporate governance rules and, consequently, on the trust placed in companies by european citizens and consumers. in this context, it is important to use the current crisis as an opportunity to improve corporate governance and a proportionate and flexible approach to corporate governance should be applied, given the diverse nature of existing national frameworks and of the companies themselves. such rules can never be imposed and made mandatory, but can be constituted as standards to which companies can voluntarily adhere.
in writing. − on 5 april 2011, the european commission published the green paper on corporate governance which aims to assess the effectiveness of the current european business model and how to improve its governance. i support this report because it aims to encourage a growing relationship between the management bodies of companies and all stakeholders (e.g. shareholders, suppliers, customers), to include independent personalities on the boards of directors, to adopt transparent methods and criteria of merit in the field of human resources in order to value the skills and talents of employees and to safeguard the appropriate reconciliation of work and family life. i agree with the rapporteur that there should be no rules too rigid for corporate governance, but that a number of basic measures should be established in all companies, while always safeguarding their size, complexity and type of business activity. financial audits and external evaluations should be carried out periodically as they are useful tools for assessing the effectiveness of corporate governance practices. i take this opportunity to point out that i disagree with the proposal for quotas for women on company boards, because i believe that they do not need this subterfuge to demonstrate their skills, qualifications and business knowledge.
in writing. - this report is another contribution which parliament is trying to make to whitewashing the real causes and consequences of the crisis we are currently experiencing, a spurious attempt to prolong the capitalist system, as if its predatory and exploitative nature were reformable. what the workers need is not a demonstration of accountability and transparency on the part of the board of directors, as is written in this report. we know very well what these expressions mean in the mouth of capital: a deliberate evasion of the affirmation of measures of social progress, a subterfuge to avoid defending the fair distribution of wealth, empty words that do not replace the need to defend and apply fair wages, collective bargaining, the end of precariousness. as the crisis progresses, it is increasingly urgent to stop the illusion that it is possible to ask arsonists to come and put out the fire they have caused. we must respect national sovereignty and stop promoting harmonization, we must stop prescribing panaceas which do not attack the root of the problem, we must defend micro, small and mediumsized enterprises, workers, pensioners and young people. and that will only be possible by breaking with this system once and for all.
in writing. the report presented is sufficiently informative on the activities of the european investment bank. missing issues were introduced by way of commitments, which made the document even more consensual. it should be stressed that the european investment bank is one of the most important european instruments to support the real economy and therefore has to play a leading role in this area, directing its intervention towards growth and job creation.
in writing. − the eib has done very important work in a number of sectors, including the financing of projects in the fields of energy efficiency, renewable energy, transport, forestry, innovation, communication technologies and adaptation to climate change. its work in tackling the financial crisis during 2010 was also outstanding, as was the support it provided to smes. for these reasons i voted in favour of the eib report.
in writing. − first, i would like to congratulate the eib on all the work it has done, in particular on having successfully completed its two years of anti-crisis activities in 2010 and having returned to pre-crisis funding levels. such is very beneficial and deserves a favorable note. i also welcome the commitment to the idea of project bonds to improve the risk rating of bonds issued by companies themselves, used to finance european infrastructure in the fields of transport, energy and information technology. the eib's important work in supporting smes and its potential role in the eu 2020 strategy through simplification of procedures and maximising multiplier effects to attract public and private investors should also be highlighted.
in writing. the european investment bank (eib), set up by the treaty of rome in 1958, aims to contribute to the development of the single market and to reduce the asymmetries that persist in the territory of the european union (eu). its priority areas of action are therefore territorial cohesion, social and economic convergence, the implementation of the knowledge economy, support for small and medium-sized enterprises, the development of transport networks, environmental protection and the promotion of sustainable energy. the document under review, prepared by iliana ivanova, is based on the 2010 annual report of the eib. i would like to congratulate the eib's management on the results achieved, which allow the bank to maintain its triple a rating, guaranteeing credibility and being a sine qua non for obtaining loans at reduced rates. i also welcome the creation of the european progress microfinance facility. i welcome the support of the eib and the eif to smes and hope that these banking institutions will continue and if possible increase their level of support, given the importance they play in the economic recovery of the eu, in particular in terms of economic growth, innovation and job creation.
in writing. - this report gives great importance to the need to maintain the eib's annual reports. it calls for greater transparency and accountability in relation to the global loan programme. it also supports the eib's efforts to ensure greater support for smes. the 2010 annual report focuses on climate-related project finance in areas such as energy efficiency, renewable energy, transport, forestry, innovation and climate change adaptation. another key point in the report is the call for the eib to be subject to a discharge procedure by the european parliament in the context of the deployment of public funds drawn from the eu budget or the european development fund and managed by the eib. however, we have doubts, reservations and some disagreements about a number of aspects raised throughout the report. this is the case with reference to public-private partnerships, alignment with the eu2020 strategy, the implementation modalities of the so-called project bonds and the increased role of the eib in the balanced and regular development of the internal market.
in writing. - the eib is undoubtedly one of the most important european instruments to support the real economy and should be encouraged to continue to develop its policies successfully at european level. the bank's strong commitment to being the european bank and to playing a key role in reviving the european economy and supporting growth is recognised. it should be noted that in 2010 the eib increased the available finance for climate-related projects to eur 19 billion, compared to eur 16 billion in 2009. this focus of the bank on climate change is very important. it would, however, be relevant for the bank to stop financing certain types of projects which have a catastrophic environmental and social impact. the eib should also do its utmost to fully align the bank's operations with the eu's objectives for a swift transition to a low-carbon economy. the eib should continue to support the europe 2020 strategy by acting as a lever for the structural funds and making greater use of innovative financial instruments. the project obligations set out in the eu 2020 strategy are very important in this context.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, which highlights the fact that the european investment bank should continue to support the europe 2020 strategy by leveraging the structural funds and making greater use of innovative financial instruments. this is indeed a key support during the deep economic crisis we are experiencing, which is also a liquidity crisis in the member states, to support these projects.
in writing. the european investment bank (eib) was set up in 1958 by the treaty of rome and its main objective is to contribute to the development of the single market and to reducing regional development disparities. in 2010, it lent €72 billion, of which €8.5 billion went to developing countries. in line with this activity report, the eib, which has provided 32% of its lending for the trans-european transport network, has helped to stimulate the implementation of the 7th framework programme for research and development (fp7), lent over eur 30 billion to enterprises and supported some 115 000 smes by providing credit lines worth eur 10 billion. the lack of capital from the markets has made it difficult for the european union, the member states and companies to invest. in this connection, i believe that the governors of the eib should be asked to give their consent to a significant capital increase, by deepening the bank's activity in the area of productive investments that will enable it to boost rapid economic growth, generate wealth and create jobs.
in writing. - this report refers to the need to maintain the eib's annual reports. the 2010 annual report calls for the eib to make a greater contribution by financing climate-related projects in areas such as energy efficiency, renewable energy, transport, forestry, innovation and climate change adaptation. it also advocates greater support for smes. it is also positive when it calls for the eib to be subject to a discharge procedure by the european parliament on the deployment of public funds taken from the eu budget or the european development fund and managed by the eib. however, we do not follow some of the positions such as the defence of the eib's regulatory control by the ecb, the financing of public-private partnership projects, the eib's support for the europe 2020 strategy, or a greater role for the eib in promoting a balanced and orderly development of the internal market.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this own-initiative report because it gives a precise analysis of the eu citizenship 2010 document on removing obstacles to eu citizens' rights, published by the commission. i would point out that the commission has consulted civil society and has in fact listed the most important obstacles that citizens face in exercising their rights across borders. it is important to keep a close eye on the 25 points that have been highlighted, especially as the commission is already presenting a number of solutions to help individuals, consumers, residents, students, tourists, professionals or political actors. like the s&d group, i insist on respect for values, such as those defined in the charter of fundamental rights, criticising for example the mass expulsions on ethnic grounds, such as that of the french gypsies, by the conservative government.
in writing. − in its 2010 report entitled citizenship of the union - overcoming obstacles to eu citizens' exercise, the european commission presented the main obstacles faced by eu citizens in different aspects of life. this report analyses the solutions proposed by the commission, taking into account the petitions received by the committee on petitions. there are still a number of obstacles, including freedom of movement and residence, the exercise of social security rights, the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications, double taxation and the lack of information for citizens on their rights, including the right to petition. this report, which i supported, calls for better coordination between member states in the application of existing legislation and asks the commission to improve the provision of eu information and to ask citizens how they would prefer to be informed. it also supports the preparation of a new report in 2013 and welcomes the commission's proposal to declare 2013 the european year of citizenship.
in writing. − in 2009, the number of european citizens living in a member state other than their own was around 12 million. however, one in five european citizens still encountered several obstacles to the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member state. in addition, citizens face obstacles to the exercise of social security rights and to the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications. on the other hand, many citizens do not have complete and accurate information about their rights, in particular to study, work, retire or live in another member state. i voted in favour of this report because it calls for better coordination between member states in the application of existing legislation and calls on the european commission to improve the provision of information on the european union to its citizens.
in writing. − the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states is the most tangible expression of the benefits associated with citizenship of the union. although in 2009 almost 12 million union citizens were living in a member state other than their own, one in five encountered too many obstacles to the exercise of this right, in particular as regards their right of entry, permanent residence, the rights of their family members, access to social security benefits, recognition of professional qualifications and diplomas, among many others. however, the biggest obstacle to the active exercise of union citizenship is the lack of awareness of the rights of eu citizens. it is essential to make available to citizens who wish to study, work, retire or live in another member state clear, practical and country-specific information on their rights if they wish to remain there. at the same time, there should be better coordination between member states (in taxation, social security, etc.), which should also remove the legal and administrative obstacles that still remain, in order to facilitate the exercise of these rights and eliminate any contradictions that still exist between national and european legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that, although citizens' rights are clearly enshrined in the eu's legal instruments, they are not always put into practice. we live in difficult times and many people are disillusioned with the european project. the european institutions must put citizens at the heart of their activities and keep them informed of their rights and the mechanisms at their disposal, including the right to petition, to find rapid solutions to their problems.
in writing. the demonstrated interest of european citizens in community affairs was admirably and honourably embodied in the treaty of lisbon. the suggestions for legislation, being the most diverse, should remain under the scrutiny of the main democratically elected representatives duly represented in this plenary.
in writing. − the right to free movement of persons and goods is one of the main advantages of all citizens of the member states (ms), who benefit from a regulatory framework that protects them. however, not all ms fully apply the legislation to protect citizens. the 2010 report on the performance of citizenship in the union points to the need to remove obstacles to the exercise of the rights of citizens of the european union. one of the most frequent complaints concerns the limitations some feel on their right to mobility, particularly in relation to the bureaucratic and administrative burden they have to deal with, especially when it comes to relatives and people in their relationships. i welcome the proposal to make 2013 the european year of citizens, although i think that the allocation of €1 million is clearly reduced, as are all the measures to simplify the bureaucratic burden, such as the your europe portal and the registration process for motor vehicles already registered in a member state. finally, i would like to call for an information campaign on the eu charter of fundamental rights to be developed, since 85% of european citizens are not familiar with it.
in writing. - this report addresses relevant and current issues, being clear and firm in condemning racism against bulgarian and romanian workers, against collective expulsion, against racism against roma (specifically the french case). we could also mention some important guidelines on disabled people and access to health care, although all of this is dealt with in the context and logic of the single market and its deepening. the report uses the usual federalist rhetoric, openly confronting a number of aspects of national legislation with european legislation. it welcomes the european citizens' initiative, considered to be the first instrument of transnational participatory democracy, and calls for its implementation, noting its limitations and the context of the strong limitations to democracy that exist today in the eu. it proposes a number of harmonizations, particularly in the areas of taxation and social security. and of course it is understood that it is essential for such european citizenship that more products, more competitive prices, the deepening of the single market, etc. are encouraged. the considerations concerning european political parties are simply unacceptable.
in writing. − the 2010 eu citizenship report is more comprehensive than the previous reports, which essentially consisted of a descriptive summary, as required by article 25 tfeu, of the main developments in eu citizenship over the three-year period. this report identifies 25 obstacles that citizens face in different aspects of their lives (as individuals, consumers, residents, students, tourists, professionals or as political actors) and proposes solutions to overcome them.
in writing. − in its 2010 report entitled 'citizenship of the union - overcoming obstacles to union citizenship', the european commission presented the main obstacles faced by eu citizens in different aspects of their lives. obstacles to freedom of movement and residence, the exercise of social security rights, the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications, double taxation and the lack of information to citizens about their rights, including the right to petition, were identified. this report calls for better coordination between member states in the application of existing legislation and asks the commission to improve the availability of eu information and to ask citizens how they would prefer to be informed. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the full exercise of rights by eu citizens is essential to the realisation of the european project.
in writing. − the aim of this report on european citizenship is to remove obstacles, through legislative and non-legislative proposals, to ensure that european citizens enjoy their rights in the member states as workers, students, tourists and, above all, as european citizens with political rights. this initiative, with 25 measures, is the result of a compilation of petitions by european citizens who, among other things, highlight the violation of the directive on freedom of movement, the ignorance of their rights, double taxation, the non-implementation of the qualification directive and the lack of information and cooperation of the authorities themselves in relation to social, civil and political rights. since 2013 will be the year of european citizenship, i believe that this report, in addition to pointing out the obstacles felt by citizens, presents measures to ensure the full implementation of the rights of european citizens.
in writing. - this report delves into the federalism of the european union, openly confronting a number of aspects of national legislation with european legislation. it seeks to define and apply what is called european citizenship, as if it made sense to designate the nationals of each country as, first and foremost, individuals of a european nation. the report also proposes a number of harmonisations, particularly in the areas of taxation and social security, and the promotion of the digital single market, which confirms the federalist character of the report. it also advocates unacceptable interference in the internal workings of political parties, arguing that membership of a european political party can be proposed more often when joining a national party, and that citizens' more direct participation should be promoted through european political parties, on the basis that all parties share the same way of functioning and the same ideological ideology. it is a question of establishing a single political and ideological thought. we voted against it, of course.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament other i must confess that i was quite astonished to hear your first statement on the expropriation of repsol in argentina. in a debate on human rights and in a week in which there has been a coup d'état in a country - guinea-bissau - much closer to the european union, which has served as a platform for arms and drug trafficking to the european union and which has not deserved more from your office than a mere press release and which has deserved even more, a country from which our delegation from the european union has been withdrawn and which mrs ashton has not yet re-established the delegation of the european union there. a country in west africa that is in danger of becoming a failed state - if it is not already - and i would like to see as much speed in dealing with these matters as was done with repsol, at a time when the european union has german-flagged ships sailing through cypriot ports exporting arms to syria, at a time when the european union has companies selling internet censorship and surveillance software to dictatorial regimes, at a time when international agreements continue to be signed that have only the vaguest of references to human rights. i would like to see as much willingness to accede to our requests to punish these companies as there was to come out in defence of repsol. enough with the human rights jokes. we're going public with our new strategies. let us be consistent in the way we deal with the internal and external dimensions of fundamental rights. the report by mr howitt, whom i thank for his cooperation and for the very concrete and practical perspectives he has put forward in his report, is a valuable instrument for the commission's future action. as shadow rapporteur for mr howitt and as rapporteur for the political review of rights, for the strategic review of fundamental rights in europe, i hope that the farce will end and that the real work will begin. i'm available for that, mrs. ashton, but not for the rest.
madam president, ahead of a political declaration by the eu foreign ministers on a new eu human rights strategy and the appointment of a special representative on human rights, i urge mrs ashton and the eu member states to consider parliament’s concerns and demands included in this important report by my colleague richard howitt, for which i thank him. i second his call for colleagues on the right in this house to reconsider their vote on re-tabled amendments on lgbt, people’s human rights, women’s sexual and reproductive health, european accountability as regards torture renditions and secret prisons and war crimes in gaza. i believe we need to be coherent and consistent in order to ensure that the promotion of human rights and democracy is indeed at the core of our external action. we have lessons to learn from the arab spring and we need to put an end to the support for oppressive regimes under the pretext of security, stability and economic interests. take ethiopia for example: an oppressive regime that is a main beneficiary of eu development assistance. ‘more for more’ must also mean ‘less for less’, as we say in this report. this means that we need smart, more active support for civil society. all actors of democratisation must ensure that security, trade and development and other policies take account of efforts in human rights and democratisation. all levels of eu staff, including staff in the eu delegations and the heads of delegation, must have adequate training in human rights. the new strategy must bear scrutiny from parliament, the media and civil society. country strategies, papers and human rights benchmarks must provide for timely consultation with civil society and must be made public. i hope that you, mrs ashton, and our ministers, when they visit any of these countries where human rights defenders and activists face difficulties, make a point of meeting them and reporting back on their concerns.
the same european union which claims to be teaching the world lessons in human rights is trampling on human rights every day within its borders, rights enshrined in its universal declaration, such as the right to social security, protection from unemployment, fair wages, food, health care and free education. these and other rights enshrined in the universal declaration are under attack in portugal and other member states by the imf's pact of aggression, the european union and so-called austerity plans. the same european union which claims the right to give lessons in democracy to the world has just made its concept of democracy very clear by disregarding and contradicting the will of the people in a treaty drawn up in defiance of the most elementary democratic rules and precepts. what is becoming clear, unfortunately, is that human rights are increasingly being used as a pretext for external interference and interventionism, in defiance of the spirit and the letter of the united nations charter. we reject this instrumental and restrictive view of human rights.
on behalf of the s&d group. the echoes of the military coup in mali had not yet died down, and we were already faced with another one in guinea-bissau. two coups d'état in the west african region in the space of two weeks should be enough for the european union to recognise the key role it has to play in conjunction with the african union, ecowas, the un, the cplp, in stabilising the region and, above all, in protecting the populations who need democracy, the rule of law and security in order to survive and develop. european security is also at stake. the routes of trafficking in human beings, arms and drugs, which are directed precisely to europe, pass through here. that is why we have to act, and we have the instruments to act, the people of those countries to react and to rise again. we have to make a deal. political condemnation is not enough. they must be combined with committed diplomacy and the muscle of the common security and defence policy, as well as humanitarian aid. we must react to these threats and above all not make the unfortunate errors of judgment which led to the closure of the european union mission to support reform of the defence and security sector.
the developments in mali have worsened an already extremely precarious humanitarian situation, compounded by growing food insecurity, which threatens more than three million people with hunger. the situation is already critical at the borders of niger and mauritania, with almost 100 000 people internally displaced and 200 000 refugees in neighbouring countries. these recent developments are inseparable from the entry into northern mali of thousands of tonnes of weapons following the military aggression of nato, the united states, france and the united kingdom against libya. in the current context, it is important to support the efforts of the african union and the community of west african states in seeking a peaceful negotiated political solution to the conflict. the european union is committed to the implementation of the un charter and to the implementation of the un charter. the crisis in this country has its deep roots in economic and social problems that need to be addressed. there is an urgent need to respond to food, employment, health, housing and public services. development cooperation has a major role to play here.
mr president, from the visit that ms de keyser and i made to the region – that is, to north lebanon – and the interviews we conducted with syrian refugees and other contacts, i conclude that two proxy wars are indeed being carried out over the corpses of syrians. one is being played out in new york, with the west opposing russia and china; the other is being played out on the ground between the sunnis – backed by the saudis and the qataris – and the shi’ites, who are supported by iran, which backs the assad regime. i find the hypocrisy very disturbing indeed, and this also applies to our own member states. there are those who are talking about a humanitarian corridor, but who are doing nothing to make it a reality. such a step would require military security in the area of the humanitarian corridor, namely in turkey. they are, of course, playing a game of political hypocrisy, and the aforementioned unacceptable breach of embargoes needs to be clarified by our member states. i think it is crucial for the eu to support the annan plan, because it is the only game in town capable of preventing a prolonged civil war. at the same time, it should be very clear that we want assad out of power and brought before the icc. this is not in the annan plan, but it should be made clear in the eu’s dealings. he and the others in his regime should be tried for the crimes they have committed against the people of syria. i think it is important that we support the annan plan in any way we can, namely in terms of providing security for the observers to perform – if they are indeed to perform. we also need to give support to the refugees – not only those in turkey, but also those in countries like lebanon, who are facing very difficult conditions, as well as the populations who are housing them. finally, we need to engage with the syrian opposition to make sure they unite on a democratic platform.
mr president, it is true that the syrian people want more democracy and more justice. in syria, for many years, there has been an opposition to the government that claims it and wants changes in the syrian political regime. however, what we are witnessing today is not a revolution, nor the military crushing of a peaceful popular uprising, what we are witnessing today in syria is a military conflict instigated, financed, armed and fueled from abroad. what is at issue here is the arming, financing and training of mercenary and terrorist forces by saudi arabia, qatar, jordan, turkey and, according to various sources, also by the united states and france. what we are witnessing is not simply an internal syrian conflict but an imperialist destabilisation operation by its allies to secure control of resources and countries in the middle east. the necessary peaceful solution to the conflict, which we advocate to be achieved through national dialogue within the framework of the un, will only succeed if the european union, the united states and other countries do not disrespect the sovereignty of the syrian people and do not demand any form, especially financial and military, in the existing conflict. until that happens, supposed peace intentions and concerns are pure hypocrisy.
mr president, i support the view mrs ashton has put forward here on how to deal with burma in this process and i also join other colleagues in the satisfaction that we may soon have aung san suu kyi here to receive the sakharov prize. the european union must encourage this process of reform and review some of the sanctions, but certainly not the arms embargo and those sectors which are fundamental to military power, namely mines and timber, and on condition that the burmese regime continues to make democratic and pluralist opening-up viable. it is essential for this that political prisoners are unconditionally released and that the laws that have allowed their detention are repealed, that ethnic minorities are no longer attacked militarily and that the impunity of those responsible for war crimes and other human rights abuses is ended. the european union must work with civil society and, in the run-up to the 2015 elections, assist in the training of administrative staff and in the preparation of the reforms needed to lift the other sanctions, which obviously have to include the independence of the judiciary, the fight against corruption, freedom of the press and expression and unrestricted access to the internet, the protection of minorities, labour rights, environmental laws that defend the interests of the burmese people and, of course, support for economic and commercial development that never ignores the central issue of defending human rights. above all, we must not forget that the real test of democracy in burma will come with the necessary constitutional revision that removes the veto power from the military, which currently occupies 25% of the parliament, thus preventing them from controlling the government that will result from the 2015 elections.
mr president, portugal voted last week for the treaty, or rather the budgetary ultimatum, which is not, incidentally, a european treaty, and i should like to mention that. the vote in favour of the governing parties reflects the accumulation of decades and decades of stupidity and a typical attitude of the good student who does not think and obeys bad teachers. the position of the ps and its leader was to go from a very dangerous violent abstention to a creeping vote in favour. this alliance makes our assembly of the republic, the portuguese assembly, the first parliament to accept the humiliation of being deprived of one of its most important functions for which the people elected it: to decide annually on the country's budget. this is another coup by the european union, another one, it is a coup in which the power of money is increasingly out of reach of the citizens' votes. and i ask you, mr president, is it democratic to vote so that you can no longer vote?
mr president, the sad reality of guinea-bissau is repeated: once again, the military, instead of defending the homeland or the constitutional order and human life, attacks all to give way to their dirty business. a united nations report in 2008 warned that the uninhabited islands of guinea-bissau are being used by drug traffickers who operate with total impunity with the agreement of important military figures, based on corruption and the total absence of laws. what has been done since 2008? what has the european union done? he had the mission in guinea-bissau withdrawn to work with the guinean army, to try to implant a civilian mentality in this army. it was a very serious mistake. if we have a failed state between now and tomorrow, and if we have a situation which is going to be very serious, which is going to be difficult to resolve and which will have consequences for the european union, for drug trafficking and arms trafficking in that country, then our incoherence in our strategy in guinea-bissau will also be at stake. i would like to say a word of hope to the people of guinea, who we know want peace, reform and moderation in their country and who want to rebuild and make their lives.
mr president, the social and economic situation of the portuguese people is deteriorating seriously, their living conditions are rapidly falling back to sub-human and unbearable levels. in the meantime, the troika, of which the european commission is a member, with the servile agreement of the portuguese government, considers that portugal is on the right track. but let's see what a good way that is: is the increase in debt and economic dependence, the deepening of the recession with the consequent increase in unemployment which has already reached 15%, with the forecast of the destruction of more than 200 thousand jobs in 2012 and 2013, the increase in poverty with a quarter of the portuguese living on the poverty line mean that portugal is on the right track? do you think that the lowering of the portuguese living standard, with an estimated 7.3% drop in private consumption in 2012, the theft of holiday and christmas allowances from public administration workers and pensioners, the freezing and reduction of wages is because portugal is on the right track? do you think that the closure of many public health centres with a view to privatisation, as well as many other public services, the increase in the number of portuguese people suffering from malnutrition, particularly school-age children, is a sign that portugal is on the right track?
the report also calls for the establishment of a european system of social security for migrant workers, which is based on the principle of equal treatment for men and women. we believe that this measure has positive aspects in order to implement the most advanced legislation in terms of social protection between two member states. however, this measure should not legitimise the existence of so-called 'fake' selfemployed workers, i.e. workers who occupy a permanent post. these illegal situations must not be legitimized in any way, but rather eradicated by creating employment contracts with rights, and for this purpose, controls are very important. the second amendment provides that airline employees are to be covered by the social security scheme of their base of employment. we think, however, that there should be a check on the registration of the seat of companies, so that companies do not set up in countries where social security charges are lower, so as to have lower costs. ladies and gentlemen, let me tell you this: at a time when we are witnessing an unprecedented attack on the social security system in my country, portugal, we want to make it clear that we will not accept any attempt to harmonize the social security system in the european union, nor any recommendations that the european commission has been imposing, such as the white paper on pensions, which advocates raising the retirement age and paving the way for private insurance systems in order to end the public social security system. at a time when we are witnessing in portugal the freezing of the value of pensions and pensions, the total cuts in holiday and christmas allowances, the reduction of social support, we want to reaffirm that we will not accept the path of privatisation of social security and will defend a public social security system based on the principle of solidarity and universality.
madam president, this is an addition to paragraph 112. i will read it in english: ‘welcomes the fact that the eu has been very supportive of capacity-building activities for indigenous peoples at the un; underlines that enhancing indigenous representatives’ efficiency during un events is essential by supporting adequate logistics, documentation and information; calls on the eu to continue this support;’
in writing. − i approve this proposal, taking into account the need for regulation (ec) no 883/2004 and regulation (ec) no 987/2009 to be adapted to keep up to date with changes in national legislation and developments in social reality, which influence the coordination of social security systems. in addition, relevant proposals were received from the committee responsible with a view to improving the said coordination system. these proposals, together with other technical adaptations of the text, are incorporated into the present proposal. another positive aspect is that this proposal also updates and amends the references to national legislation in certain annexes to the regulations. although the proposal focuses on crossborder issues in relation to social security for selfemployed workers and commercial aviation, it is an essential step towards not only the coordination of national social security systems, but also a first step towards a single justice for workers across the european union, who currently face serious differences between member states. i think it is important to advocate greater harmonization in this area.
in writing. −it is up to the member states to organise and finance their social security systems. social security coordination thus focuses on crossborder situations where no member state can act alone. to simplify this coordination, eu legislation has been adopted, replacing the various bilateral agreements that existed. however, given the frequency with which member states tend to introduce amendments to their social security legislation, it is natural that references to national legislation in eu legislation coordinating social security systems, in particular regulations 883/2004 and 987/2009, may become outdated, creating legal uncertainty for stakeholders when applying the regulations. i therefore support the present initiative to update these regulations to take account of changes in national legislation and changes in social realities affecting the coordination of social security systems, such as the recent developments in crossborder mobility. i also consider the amendments proposed by the administrative commission to update, clarify and complete the content of certain provisions to be important, as this is the only way to ensure greater transparency and security for the parties concerned and to provide more complete protection for citizens who have opted for mobility.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to ensure adequate coordination of national social security systems at eu level, in order to adapt to the latest developments in crossborder mobility and free movement of workers. the aim is to guarantee the right to unemployment protection for selfemployed crossborder workers and the rights of aircrew, who should be entitled to the benefits due at the headquarters or branch of their respective airlines. these seem to me to be appropriate and proportionate measures, especially at the present time of crisis in europe, which has led hundreds of thousands of europeans into unemployment and further difficulties.
in writing. - the enlargement of the european union, particularly to the east, has contributed to greater movement of people and goods, thus consolidating the construction of a genuine european single market. the movement of people, especially workers, has raised some problems with regard to the recognition of their social security rights. it is therefore urgent to clarify this situation. the report, drawn up by milan cabrnoch, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems and regulation (ec) no 987/2009 laying down detailed rules for the application of regulation (ec) no 883/2004. i welcome the adoption of this report which recognises one of the eu's basic rights: the right to live and/or work in any member state. all crossborder workers, including those in the air, maritime and selfemployed sectors, are guaranteed their social rights, even if they did not have them in their country of origin. equal treatment in the case of equal work is thus enshrined, irrespective of the member state.
in writing. − this legislative report aims to amend regulations 883/2004 and 987/2009 to incorporate recent changes in some member states in the field of national social security. another objective concerns the consideration of certain provisions of the regulation which have been amended, in particular the transferability of unemployment benefit for self-employed workers and the introduction of a special provision for air transport workers. the report argues that a selfemployed frontier worker who becomes unemployed is entitled to unemployment benefits in the competent member state if they do not exist in the member state of residence. this is an important and sensible measure. it is important, however, not to ignore the problem of the fake selfemployed, who in fact keep subordinate employment relationships in a hood. in some member states, this problem is of considerable proportions. air transport workers are covered by the social security scheme of the area in which they are employed.' we believe that it is essential to have a check on the registration of the registered office so that companies are not established in countries where social security costs are lower.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it seeks to ensure the necessary coordination at european level of the various social security systems. this is an update of the existing rules, in particular regulations (ec) no 883/2004 and (ec) no 987/2009 which take into account legal developments at member state level and cross-border mobility.
in writing. - this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council promotes the updating of the regulation on the coordination of social security systems. the last amendment to these regulations, which entered into force on 1 may 2010, ensured the coordination of social security systems in all member states. the references made in those regulations to national legislation over time and the changes introduced by member states in their national social security systems have resulted in the outdated nature of this legal instrument and the potential legal uncertainty for stakeholders as regards the application of the regulations. the aim of this amendment is to reflect these changes in legislation at national level and changes in social reality. i voted in favour of this report, as the changes will facilitate the effective application of european union legislation on the coordination of social security schemes and improve the protection of people moving within the union.
in writing. − the aim of this proposal is to update regulations (ec) no 883/2004 and (ec) no 987/2009 in order to ensure adequate coordination of national social security systems at eu level. the proposal reflects changes in national legislation and takes into account the latest developments in cross-border mobility. the aim is to improve and modernise eu law in the light of the constantly changing social reality. the main purpose is, first, to ensure that an unemployed frontier worker receives benefits if he has completed periods of insurance as a selfemployed person recognised for the purpose of granting unemployment benefits in the competent member state and there is no unemployment benefit scheme in the member state of residence covering such workers and, second, to protect the rights of airline crew. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − this report is purely technical and aims to update european legislation in terms of ensuring appropriate coordination between the social security systems of the member states. in accordance with article 153 tfeu, the eu should support the member states in the field of social security in order to achieve a harmonisation of social systems that safeguards the protection of european citizens. this amendment concerns specifically the selfemployed crossborder workers and civil aviation workers as regards the basic rule of secondment. the aim is to ensure that selfemployed persons in crossborder regions are covered by the country in which they last worked, even if they no longer live there. they will thus be entitled to unemployment benefit if the member state in which they reside does not provide for it. i think it is important that this legislation should be revised in two years' time to take account of the changes that member states are making. we must ensure that european citizens are guaranteed their rights, regardless of their nationality.
in writing. − the primary objective of this report is to amend regulations 883/2004 and 987/2009 to incorporate recent changes in some member states in the field of national social security. a second objective relates to certain provisions of the regulation which have been amended, in particular the transferability of unemployment benefit for self-employed workers and the introduction of a special provision for air transport workers specifying that their base of assignment should be considered as the registered office of their employers or the place of work, in order to identify the member state where they should pay social security contributions. the report argues that a selfemployed frontier worker who becomes unemployed is entitled to unemployment benefits in the competent member state if they do not exist in the member state of residence. this measure may be important if it is not applied to fake selfemployed workers, in order to legitimize their use. with the second amendment, workers are enrolled in the social security system of their base of employment. we think, however, that there should be a check on the registration of the registered office so that companies are not established in countries where the costs of social security are lower.
in writing. - i approve this proposal for the signing of the treaty of friendship and cooperation with south-east asia on behalf of the european union, which includes the philippines, indonesia, malaysia, singapore and thailand, as the aim is cooperation to promote peace, stability and cooperation in the region. the signing of this treaty on behalf of the european union is an important step, because by signing it as a union, all europeans will be able to benefit from this cooperation protocol. given that economic growth is increasingly concentrated in asia, this protocol also allows for economic cooperation in which the european union can benefit from effective cooperation within the asian tigers, which can make us more competitive in this flourishing market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the eu's accession to the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia, bearing in mind that the purpose of the treaty is to promote peace, stability and cooperation in south-east asia. in addition, this accession will strengthen the eu's presence and visibility in the south east asia region.
in writing. - i cannot but support the accession of the european union to the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia. the region is becoming increasingly important in the international context, and it is hard to understand why, by opening up the treaty to partners from other parts of the world, the union should not follow the example of powers such as the united states and china and throw away the possibility of strengthening its relationship with the countries of south-east asia. i hope that the union can soon accede to the treaty and that it will bear fruit for all parties involved.
in writing. − the european union (eu) seeks to bring its values of defence of human rights, freedom and democracy to every corner of the planet. in this respect, it has established, throughout its existence, several protocols and signed treaties with many states and organizations which share these principles. in july 2006, member states decided to launch the process leading to eu accession to the treaty of friendship and cooperation (tfac) with the association of southeast asian nations (asean). this process has been significantly delayed due to the need to amend the tac to allow for the accession of non-state entities. with the asean ministerial meeting on 26 and 27 april, i agree with the council's request that this recommendation be voted on today as a matter of urgency so that the high representative/vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, can sign the instruments of accession during the asean ministerial meeting. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the signing of this treaty will enhance the visibility of the eu in the region, promote socio-cultural exchange between the eu and the countries of south-east asia and thus contribute to the consolidation of peace and stability in this asian region.
in writing. the treaty to which this report refers - the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south east asia (tac), which came into force after the original members of asean signed it in 1976, sets out principles that we hold dear, such as mutual respect for independence, sovereignty, equality, territorial integrity and national identity and the right of every nation to its own government free from outside interference, subversion or coercion. however, the signatory countries of the treaty created a free trade area in 1992 (completed in 2008). the population of asean countries is 600 million people. asean together generates a gdp of about usd 1.5 trillion and is the third largest trading partner outside the eu, with over eur 206 billion in trade in goods and services. if we support the signing of this treaty, for the principles enshrined in it, the truth is that we have no illusions about the reasons why the eu is signing it. this is a political and diplomatic manoeuvre aimed at creating better conditions for its objective of establishing a free trade area between the eu and asean.
in writing. the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia (tac) entered into force after its signature by the original members of asean in 1976. its objective is to promote peace, stability and cooperation in south-east asia. in july 2006, eu member states agreed to start the process towards eu accession to the tac. however, the tac had first to be amended again to allow the accession of non-state entities. given the interest in joining this treaty in order to give the eu greater visibility in south east asia, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the draft council decision on the accession of the european union to the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia, the aim of which is to promote peace, stability and cooperation in south-east asia. the european parliament's committee on foreign affairs, given the uncontroversial nature of this accession, has invited the european parliament to approve the decision which will strengthen the eu's presence and visibility in the region.
in writing. the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia (tac) entered into force in 1976 with the aim of promoting peace, stability and cooperation in that region. although originally intended to apply only to the states of south-east asia, this treaty was amended in 1987 to allow for the accession of states from other regions. in july 2006, member states agreed to start the process for eu accession to the tac, which was made possible by amending the tac in advance to allow non-state actors to join. i voted in favour of the decision authorising the union to join the tac, considering that this accession will strengthen the eu's presence and visibility in the region.
in writing. the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia entered into force after its signature by the original members of asean in 1976, with the aim of promoting peace, stability and cooperation in south-east asia. in july 2006, eu member states agreed to open the process towards eu accession to the treaty. this accession will strengthen the eu's presence and visibility in the region and i supported the european parliament's decision to approve it.
in writing. − the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia (tac), which entered into force after the original members of asean signed it in 1976, sets out principles of great importance such as mutual respect for independence, sovereignty, equality, territorial integrity and national identity and the right of each nation to self-government free from outside interference, subversion or coercion. however, the signatory countries of the treaty created a free trade area in 1992 (completed in 2008). the population of asean countries is 600 million people. asean together generates a gdp of about usd 1.5 trillion and is the third largest trading partner outside the eu, with over eur 206 billion in trade in goods and services. we support the signing of this treaty on the basis of the principles enshrined in it, but we have no illusions about the reasons why the eu is signing it. this is a political and diplomatic manoeuvre aimed at creating better conditions for its objective of establishing a free trade area between the eu and asean. the eu demonstrates, with each day and each action it takes, that it is making these principles a dead letter.
in writing. - i approve this recommendation on the european council's proposal not to use a convention for the addition to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union of a protocol on the concerns of the irish people with regard to the treaty of lisbon. this is because the heads of government already agreed at the european council in june 2009 to provide security and to respond to the concerns of the irish people with regard to the lisbon treaty. since the heads of government have already agreed on the substance of the provisions proposed in the proposed protocol and the matter has been politically settled, this decision does not appear to justify the signing of a convention.
in writing. − the european council of 19 june 2009 noted the various concerns of the irish people, including those related to fiscal policy, the right to life, education and the family, and the traditional policy of military neutrality. in this context, and in order to restore confidence and give assurances to the irish people, the european council adopted three annexes to the treaty, annex 1 being a legally binding decision of the heads of state or government, which should take effect from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it was also agreed that, when a subsequent accession treaty was concluded, the provisions of the decision would be laid down in a protocol to be annexed to the treaties. following the signature of the treaty of accession of croatia on 9 december 2001, it became necessary to add the protocol. given that the substance of the proposals contained in the draft protocol has already been discussed and reached political agreement within the european council in 2009, i see no reason why a convention should be convened to add this protocol to the teu and the tfeu. i therefore support the recommendation to approve the european council's proposal not to convene a convention.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this protocol, taking into account the agreement reached at the european council of 19 june 2009, which responds to the concerns of the irish people with regard to the right to life, family and education, taxation and security and defence. since the heads of state have agreed on the content of the proposals in the protocol and the matter is therefore politically outdated, i do not think it is justified to convene a convention.
in writing. - this recommendation, drawn up by mr paulo rangel, proposes the adoption of a proposal from the european council not to convene a convention for the addition to the treaty on european union (teu) and the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) of a protocol on the concerns of the irish people with regard to the treaty of lisbon. on 20 july 2011, the irish government sent a letter to the council on a proposal to incorporate into the teu and the tfeu a protocol on the concerns of the irish people with regard to the treaty of lisbon. on this subject, the heads of state or government of the 27 member states, in order to restore confidence and respond to the concerns of the irish on respect for the right to life, family and education, as well as on taxation, security and defence, had already taken a decision on 19 june 2009 with the necessary legal guarantees. the european council has asked for the approval of the non-convention of the convention and the recommendation of the committee on constitutional affairs, and i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. the adoption of this report follows the shameful operation of blackmail and manipulation of which the irish people have been the victims, with the aim of imposing the lisbon treaty undemocratically. the adoption of what they called the additional protocol in response to the concerns of the irish people is nothing more than an attempt to legitimise something which, in the light of the most elementary democratic principles, cannot be legitimised. the rejection of the treaty of lisbon by the irish people - the only people who, by constitutional imposition, were not prevented from taking a decision by referendum - was undoubtedly an obstacle to the attempt, by an inadmissible deception and blatant ruse, to impose a previously rejected treaty proposal, disregarding and seeking to override the will of the french and dutch peoples. no manoeuvre can legitimise a treaty which is the result of an undemocratic process and which, as reality shows us, has created the conditions for the deepening of the attack on national sovereignty and the historic setback in the rights and achievements of the peoples. it is necessary to reverse this and previous treaties to safeguard democracy and defend effective citizen participation. it is necessary to defend national sovereignty and the role of national institutions in order to promote effective democracy and not to devalue it.
in writing. − on 19 june 2009, the european council considered the concerns of the irish people, including those related to fiscal policy, the right to life, education and family, and the traditional policy of military neutrality. in this context, and in order to restore the confidence of the irish people in the treaty of lisbon, the european council adopted three annexes to the treaty, annex 1 being a legally binding decision of the heads of state or government, which was to take effect from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. considering that the proposals contained in the draft protocol have already been widely discussed and deserved political agreement at the european council in 2009, i do not see the need to convene a convention to proceed with the addition of this protocol to the teu and the tfeu. i therefore agree with the european council's recommendation not to convene a convention.
in writing. − the european parliament, through its committee on constitutional affairs, approved the recommendation on the european council's proposal not to convene a convention for the addition of a protocol on the concerns of the irish people on the treaty of lisbon, the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in these terms, the european parliament gives its consent to the european council's proposal not to convene a convention. given that on 19 june 2009 the heads of state or government at the european council had already expressed their agreement on the substance of the provisions proposed in the draft protocol and that the matter had been resolved in political terms, i am voting in favour of this decision as i do not believe that the convening of a convention is justified.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of my report, which follows the agreement between the heads of state or government at the european council of 19 june 2009 on the concerns of the irish people regarding the right to life, family and education, taxation and security and defence. it was then envisaged that, when a subsequent accession treaty was concluded, the provisions of that decision would be incorporated into a protocol to be annexed to the treaty on european union and to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. that is precisely the amendment which is now at issue. the essence of the provisions proposed in the draft protocol having been settled in political terms, it was concluded that the convening of a convention was not justified.
in writing. − when the irish people vetoed the referendum on ratification of the lisbon treaty, the heads of state agreed that they would take account of ireland's concerns on issues such as the right to life, family and education, taxation, security and defence, by including a protocol to the treaty on union and the tfeu, to be included in the course of the next accession treaty. this proposal for a report, which is purely technical, does not require the convening of a convention, because the terms of the draft protocol were already agreed at the council meeting in june 2009. for these reasons, i support this recommendation.
in writing. - this recommendation argues that the introduction of a protocol in the treaty of lisbon was already politically settled and does not justify the convening of a convention. the aim is to bring to a swift end the tortuous and undemocratic process which led to the repeat of the referendum in ireland after the no vote, a process of blackmailing the irish people. in contrast to this process, we affirm and defend the right of each people to debate and to express itself in an informed way, by means of a referendum, on the content and objectives of the eu treaties.
in writing. - i approve this draft protocol and am in favour of the european council's decision to examine the proposed amendments to the treaties. since the heads of government have already made a political decision in the european council and because the protocol has already explained the areas of concern to the irish, all situations appear peaceful, but the question of the country's military neutrality remains, which is more complicated because of the powers conferred by the union. however, the afco commission's position that the obligation of mutual assistance promoted by the lisbon treaty can be safeguarded, since each member state can choose the type of assistance to be used, must be taken into account.
in writing. - following the negative result of the referendum on 12 june 2008, ireland was unable to ratify the treaty of lisbon. the european council of june 2009 highlighted the importance of the adoption of the treaty, in providing a better framework for eu action in a wide range of areas, so that the decisions needed to deal swiftly and effectively with the wide range of challenges posed by the deepest global recession since the second world war can be taken. in view of the unanimity requirement for the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, legal guarantees were agreed to address the concerns expressed by the irish people, thus paving the way for the irish to be consulted again. the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for the introduction of a european social area, including a european social area, which will be implemented in the coming years. it was foreseen that, when a subsequent accession treaty was concluded, which took place in december 2001, the provisions of the decision should be reflected in a protocol, which should be added to the teu and the tfeu. i therefore support this draft protocol which reflects the political agreement reached in 2009.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report in the light of the agreement of the heads of state at the european council in june 2009, which responds to the concerns of the irish people in relation to the lisbon treaty, with regard to life, family and education, taxation and security and defence. the report also expresses a positive opinion on the european council's decision.
in writing. - this report, drawn up by mr paulo rangel, concerns the draft protocol on the concerns of the irish people regarding the treaty of lisbon (article 48 (3) of the treaty on european union). the heads of state or government of the 27 member states, in order to restore confidence and to respond to the concerns of the irish people about respect for the right to life, family and education, as well as about taxation, security and defence, adopted on 19 june 2009 a decision with the legal safeguards necessary to safeguard these situations. on 20 july 2011, the irish government sent a letter to the council on a proposal to incorporate into the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union a protocol on the concerns of the irish regarding the treaty of lisbon. in view of the report of the committee on constitutional affairs, considering the need to respect previous political understandings between countries and the decision of the european council that, although the draft protocol relates only to ireland, an examination of the proposed amendments should be made, i am voting in favour of this proposal.
in writing. the adoption of this report follows the shameful operation of blackmail and manipulation of which the irish people have been the victims, with the aim of imposing the lisbon treaty undemocratically. the adoption of what they called the additional protocol in response to the concerns of the irish people is nothing more than an attempt to legitimise something which, in the light of the most elementary democratic principles, cannot be legitimised. the rejection of the treaty of lisbon by the irish people - the only people who, by constitutional imposition, were not prevented from taking a decision by referendum - was undoubtedly an obstacle to the attempt, by an inadmissible deception and blatant ruse, to impose a previously rejected treaty proposal, disregarding and seeking to override the will of the french and dutch peoples. no manoeuvre can legitimise a treaty which is the result of an undemocratic process and which, as reality shows us, has created the conditions for the deepening of the attack on national sovereignty and the historic setback in the rights and achievements of the peoples. it is necessary to reverse this and previous treaties to safeguard democracy and defend effective citizen participation. it is necessary to defend national sovereignty and the role of national institutions in order to promote effective democracy and not to devalue it.
in writing. − in the light of the irish referendum result, the european council in 2009 considered it necessary to create three annexes to the lisbon treaty. thus, on 19 june 2009, the european council considered the concerns of the irish people, including those related to tax policy, the right to life, education and family, and the traditional policy of military neutrality. in this context, and in order to restore the confidence of the irish people in the treaty of lisbon, the european council adopted three annexes to the treaty, annex 1 being a legally binding decision of the heads of state or government, which was to take effect upon the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. considering that the proposals contained in the draft protocol have already been widely discussed and deserved political agreement at the european council in 2009, i do not see the need to convene a convention to proceed with the addition of this protocol to the teu and the tfeu. i therefore agree with the european council's recommendation not to convene a convention.
in writing. − on 19 june 2009, the heads of state or government of the 27 member states of the european union, meeting within the european council, adopted a decision on the concerns of the irish people on the lisbon treaty, as regards the right to family life, education, taxation and security and defence. the inclusion of a protocol on the concerns of the irish people on the treaty of lisbon requires a review of the treaties. however, the heads of state or government also stated that this would only happen when the next accession treaty was concluded. in accordance with that decision, on 20 july 2011 the irish government submitted to the council a draft revision of the treaties with regard to the inclusion of a protocol on the concerns of the irish people on the treaty of lisbon. the analysis of the content of the said protocol shows that none of the concerns expressed in the protocol conflict with the text of the treaty of lisbon and that they concern ireland only. i therefore voted in favour of the european council's decision to examine this proposed amendment to the treaties.
in writing. - i am very pleased to see this report on the concerns of the irish people regarding the lisbon treaty adopted by a large majority. the irish protocol is a document which sets out the concerns expressed by ireland on issues relating to the right to life, the family, education, taxation and also security and defence policy. however, this protocol is a mere clarification of the treaty of lisbon and concerns only the irish situation, having been previously negotiated at the european council of 19 june 2009 in order to provide the necessary legal guarantees to respond to the concerns expressed by the irish people following the 'no' vote in the 2008 referendum. i therefore felt that parliament should support a decision by the european council to consider this amendment to the treaties.
in writing. − since the negative outcome of the ratification process of the lisbon treaty in ireland called into question the unanimity rule required for the entry into force of the new treaty, a protocol was added to the treaty on european union and the tfeu. i support this report because i believe that the content of the protocol does not affect the union's competences and the values of solidarity which the member states are committed to.
in writing. - what is certain is that the rejection of the treaty of lisbon by the irish people has been an obstacle to the attempt to impose a proposal for a treaty which was previously rejected, disregarding and seeking to override the will of the french and dutch peoples, who rejected this treaty in referendums. the adoption of this report will now be aimed at the undemocratic imposition of the treaty of lisbon. the so-called additional protocol to respond to the concerns of the irish people is an attempt to legitimize a process that is full of undemocratic coups. in contrast to this whole process, we defend as inalienable national sovereignty and the role of national institutions in promoting a genuine democracy.
in writing. − the process of ratification of the lisbon treaty by the irish government was a delicate one, with a referendum in june 2008 leading to the treaty, and a further referendum approving an amendment to the constitution which finally allowed ratification. furthermore, the heads of state and government, at the european council of 19 june 2009, agreed to provide ireland with the necessary legal guarantees as regards the protection of the right to life, family and education, as well as taxation, security and defence. this agreement with ireland thus entails the conclusion of a protocol stipulating that nothing in the treaty of lisbon affects the scope and applicability of the protection of the right to life, the protection of the family and the protection of the rights to education provided for in the constitution of ireland, as well as the provisions on taxation and the independence of the security and defence policy of the irish state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rangel reports on the protocol on ireland, not only because it merely incorporates into the constitutional law of the union the political commitment made by the other member states to the irish government before the referendum on the treaty of lisbon, but also because the report is explicit in the sense that the protocol has no effect except on the rights and obligations of ireland within the union. it is thus emphasized that the protocol, while it may involve a specific derogation from the treaties in respect of ireland, does not imply any restrictive interpretation of the treaties (in particular in the field of security and defence policy) as is apparent from the explanatory memorandum in the draft protocol. no other member state can therefore take advantage of the special treatment which the protocol accords to ireland as if it were a mere interpretation of the treaties. with effect restricted to ireland, the protocol leaves the interpretation and application of the treaties fully open to the other member states.
in writing. - i support this proposal, considering it essential and a priority to take account of the specificities of the outermost regions of europe in the design of future cohesion policy, as these regions are subject to permanent constraints mainly due to their isolation and distance, which justifies the adoption of measures by the european union. we must remember that the special situation of these regions and the need to adapt european policies to their particularities are enshrined in article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, since when this does not happen, their distance from the economic and social cohesion advocated by the eu is exacerbated. the eu 2020 strategy is an opportunity to pay attention to the ors in their priority areas and to use the added value they have to offer.
in writing. - the specific legal status of the outermost regions laid down in the treaty clearly demonstrates the need for differential treatment of these regions, in order to take account of their physical characteristics and structural peculiarities. the consequences of the economic, social and financial crisis have had an impact on all regions of the eu, but with a particular impact on the ors, further accentuating the structural gaps in their economies and their dependence on the outside world. european investment in these regions is not just a policy of recovery of delays and compensation. they also seek to create the added value needed to meet the challenges of sustainable development and increased competitiveness, in particular, of this region and of europe in general. i therefore support the excellent report by mr nuno teixeira, who wants to make an active contribution to finding a more balanced response from european action to the challenges facing the outermost regions in the context of the eu 2020 strategy objectives. this requires particular attention to the definition and implementation of cohesion policy and the establishment of a renewed strategy for the eu's outermost regions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the role of cohesion policy in the outermost regions of the european union in the context of europe 2020, because i believe that the specificities of the outermost regions must be taken into account in the definition of the future cohesion policy, so that these regions can respond to the challenges they face and achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. the outermost regions suffer from geographical isolation and have to make extra efforts to keep pace with the development of the mainland. strategy 2020 is therefore an opportunity to bridge the gap and work on differentiated policies that are appropriate to the characteristics of the ors, in particular at the level of cohesion policy. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague who has been working so hard on this mandate and with fruitful results on this matter of the outermost regions.
in writing. − article 349 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) (the council, on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt specific measures designed in particular to lay down the conditions for the application of the treaties to these regions, including common policies) provides for the application of a special status to the so-called outermost regions (orr), which, by reason of their geographical situation (remoteness, difficult topography and climate or insularity), constitute a specific group. the report analyses the role of eu cohesion policy towards the ors in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, i.e. how these regions can achieve the defined objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the priorities mentioned by the rapporteur: positive discrimination against these regions and development strategies aimed at greater competitiveness, growth and employment; special attention to specific areas such as fisheries, agriculture, renewable energy, information technologies, tourism, etc.; the promotion of these regions in the context of the european neighbourhood policy, by strengthening their relations with third countries through more effective governance and better integration into the eu.
in writing. − the outermost regions of the european union are a group of regions which, by reason of their particular characteristics linked to their physical and structural constraints, resulting from their remoteness and insularity, difficult terrain and climate, form a specific group of regions, recognised by article 349 tfeu. it is therefore necessary and appropriate to examine, with regard to the future cohesion policy in the ors, how the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as set out in the eu 2020 strategy, can be achieved in these european regions, which have particularities and permanent constraints resulting mainly from their remoteness and which justify the adoption of specific measures by the european union. i am voting in favour of this report because it is important for the development of the outermost regions of my country, in particular the autonomous regions of the azores and madeira.
in writing. - this report, initiated by my fellow madeiran mep nuno teixeira, whom i congratulate on the excellent work he has done, is of the utmost importance in that: (1) it constitutes the first specific statement of this parliament's legislature on the outermost regions/uprs, (2) it is designed to influence the communication that the european commission is to present next may on the outermost regions, as a commitment of this college of commissioners to these regions. i therefore put a lot of effort into the final drafting of this report, working closely with the rapporteur and also with the psd/azores to introduce responses tailored to the specific needs of the azores, in particular with regard to a future posei transportes and also to the extension of the protection zone for access to azorean waters. these two aspects were safeguarded, although it had called for a more forceful expression in the case of posei transportes. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the eu's outermost regions (ors) are a group of regions which, because of their particular characteristics, linked to their physical and structural constraints resulting from their remoteness and insularity, difficult terrain and climate, have a special status in the treaty. in calling for a territorial approach, this report aims to examine, with regard to future cohesion policy in the octs, how the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as enshrined in the eu 2020 strategy, can be achieved in these european regions. the priorities to be taken into account in this context are: the need for differentiated and comprehensive treatment of the octs in the eu, taking into account their specificities and taking advantage of their potential; the adaptation of the implementation of european policies in the octs in several strategic areas; and better integration of the octs into the eu, which implies more effective governance, territorial continuity to improve access to the benefits of the single market and the development of their integration in the context of regional neighbourhood plans. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with this approach.
in writing. − the outermost regions are a group of regions of the european union which, because of their insularity, remoteness, small size and high dependence on a large number of products, have been granted a special status which allows for differentiated treatment with regard to the european union's actions and policies in these regions, as provided for in article 349 of the tfeu. this report, which i have written, is intended to present the european parliament's proposals for a future renewed strategy for the outermost regions, taking into account the important role of cohesion policy in the outermost regions and its contribution to the achievement of the eu-2020 objectives. these measures reveal the main needs of these regions, which the european parliament has today recognised as deserving of special treatment.
in writing. − the main problem of this report is a fundamental one - the framework for defending the specificity of the ors based on compliance with the guidelines for the eu2020 strategy or the internal market, a strategy which we consider harmful to the development of the ors, exacerbating many of the constraints on these regions. however, we cannot fail to note some positive considerations, in particular the clear advocacy of differentiated treatment for the outermost regions (ors) in accordance with their specificities and permanent natural constraints, the criticism of the commission's proposal to reduce the cohesion fund and the erdf, the advocacy of an 85% co-financing rate for all support instruments, and the advocacy of a framework for state aid that is neither time-limited nor degressive. we also agree that the criterion of gdp per head should be complemented by other indicators of human and social development.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it necessary to reinforce the idea that the european union cannot have different or duplicated criteria between human rights and other external policies, between its internal and external policies, and in the conduct of its relations with third countries. the same principles should underlie all political action. i also advocate the need for a more systematic approach, which should include individual efforts by each country and a human rights strategy that includes clear deadlines, actions and responsibilities that can be implemented. i also regret that some of the s&d group's proposals were rejected at first reading, particularly as regards the reference to minorities and gender equality.
in writing. − eu policies must not only be consistent and exemplary within the eu, but also be coherent and in line with the eu's fundamental values and principles, in order to enhance the eu's credibility in the world and the effectiveness of the implementation of its fundamental rights policies. over the past decade, profound changes have taken place, from 9/11 to the arab spring, raising new challenges that highlight the vital importance of human rights and democracy. it is essential to redefine and strengthen the eu strategy and the instruments used in order to be able to respond more effectively and comprehensively to the challenges currently facing human rights and democracy worldwide. i call for rapid, transparent and inclusive progress towards an ambitious common strategy for the eu with clear actions, timetables and responsibilities, and for it to be created with the full contribution of all stakeholders. i also hope that the ep can be given a greater role in promoting transparency and accountability in the implementation of the eu human rights strategy, as this annual report is not in itself an accountability mechanism.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be more active in the fight against terrorism and to promote the fight against organised crime. it should therefore avoid double standards in human rights and relations with third countries. it also calls for speed and transparency in the development of a common human rights strategy within the eu.
in writing. − this resolution is parliament's response to the annual report on human rights in the world and the union's policy on the matter published by the european external action service, which contains a broad overview of how the european union deals with and engages in these particularly sensitive issues, as well as an assessment of the activities of the main european institutions and actors in this regard. this evaluation could be very useful not only as a means of assessing best practice and defining the best criteria for solving the problems raised by the union's strategic approach to human rights, but also as a means of pointing out ways and solutions. and to reaffirm the centrality of human rights to the european union. the european union has been increasingly committed to putting democracy and human rights on the world agenda. it is right for you to evaluate whether you are handling the problems presented to you well and not neglecting others. a union which is willing to show itself capable of questioning itself and seeking to improve its responses could emerge from this exercise strengthened.
in writing. − one of the flags of the european union (eu) which has won the recognition of many countries and states is the uncompromising defence of human rights. since 1983 the european parliament has been examining a report on human rights in the world. the report under consideration, by mr howitt, analyses the annual report on human rights in the world and the eu's policy in this field. never have human rights been so important and led to so many changes as the arab spring, where men and women, young and old, were willing to give their lives in defense of human rights. however, much remains to be done, particularly within the un, to bring an end to certain human rights violations, such as the death penalty. we must also prevent the freedom achieved by muslim-majority countries from turning into persecution and massacre of minority communities such as christians. at a time when we are faced with news of the nationalization by the argentine government, with which the eu has cooperation agreements, of the capital of a spanish company, it is essential to review the eu's strategic policy in this area.
in writing. - the report contains some positive points - for example, on guantanamo or the recognition of eu complicity in certain regimes (not by chance, already disgraced in the eyes of their people) - which do not erase its overall very negative sense. once again, we are faced with an unacceptable exploitation of human rights, seen as a political weapon, used in the interests of the eu's great powers and their economic and financial groups. in the wake of the previous annual reports, there is no mention of the flagrant violations of human rights in palestine, iraq, afghanistan, occupied cyprus or western sahara. violations with the open complicity of eu countries and/or their allies, such as the usa, israel, turkey or morocco. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force. the new and strengthened instruments of open interference in the internal life of sovereign states, contrary to the letter and spirit of the un charter, are being defended, along the lines of similar mechanisms long used by the usa. the european union is a country of the european union, and it is a country of the european union.
in writing. - credibility in the field of external relations is essential. to do this, the european union (eu) must act consistently, in accordance with the treaty and the obligations of the acquis communautaire. the eu should thus avoid inconsistencies in human rights and other external policies, between internal and external policies and in the conduct of its relations with third countries. appropriate measures should be taken to ensure that individual rights and fundamental freedoms are not affected or restricted in times of economic crisis. the union's policies must not only be consistent and exemplary within the european union, but also be consistent and in line with the fundamental values and principles in order to enhance the credibility of the european union in the world and the effectiveness of the implementation of its human rights policies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the howitt report on eu human rights policy, which honours the european parliament for its ambition and clarity. i do not agree with one particular point, however: the proposal to include a human rights chapter in all international trade treaties, which seems to me to be unreasonable and excessive. the defence and promotion of human rights is not a specific objective of the union's external trade policy. it must certainly be consistent with the other dimensions of foreign and domestic policy, starting with human rights policy. we cannot therefore conclude a trade agreement with a country which is characterized by systematic violations of human rights, such as china or belarus. but we cannot make international trade conditional on the union's high human rights standards. what we can and must demand is that trade agreements have a positive, not a negative, balance. i fully support the proposal to strengthen the chapter on labour and environmental standards, which is already part of the union's external trade treaties. the aim here is to defend the union's own economic and commercial interests by combating social and environmental dumping in trade relations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its approach, particularly as regards the european union's duty to ensure that its actions in the field of development policy promote and strengthen peacebuilding, conflict prevention and international security.
in writing. − this report is in response to the eu annual report on human rights and democracy in the world 2010, published by the european external action service, and provides an overview of eu policy on the subject. the main points covered by this report are: eu action in the context of the united nations and the international criminal court (icc); eu policies to support democratisation; human rights dialogues; consultations with third countries; and other issues such as the death penalty, arms control and torture. the fact that a more effective approach is envisaged, in which development cooperation plays a key role, and that human rights issues are intended to be extended to all eu policies is to be welcomed. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − human rights are indivisible values enshrined in the eu's founding treaties. the eu's policy, both external and internal, should therefore take account of the persecution of these people and should be applied uniformly, showing the eu's role as an example in safeguarding human rights. of course, the flaws still remain. however, it is through them that the eu and the member states must work towards the reformulation of their policies and strategies. this report covers a number of key issues, including the eu's policy action at the un, the icc, policies to support democratisation and their financial support instruments. what i would like to stress is the need to include this topic across the various eu policies. we also see shortcomings in the eu's approach to foreign policy. finally, i consider it extremely important that we continue to support democratisation and development. more technical, financial and political support is needed for the various programmes under implementation. we cannot provide the support due to third countries if the means are scarce. this is a subject of unparalleled importance, which allows the development and improvement of the quality of life of citizens, where transparency of criteria should be an element present in the annual reports.
in writing. − this paper focuses on the 2010 annual report on human rights in the world. the document's focus is on deepening the eu's policies of interference, on instrumentalising the idea of human rights in favour of eu interests, on silencing crimes against human rights (which we understand to be also social, cultural and economic) by the us and eu allies, and on advocating the strengthening of mechanisms that allow the eu to rapidly deepen its interference. in the wake of the previous annual reports, there is a complete absence of reference and denunciation of the flagrant violations of human rights in palestine, iraq, afghanistan, occupied cyprus or western sahara, perpetrated by eu countries and/or their allies, such as the usa, israel, turkey or morocco. on libya, they only regret not intervening earlier and they praise the arab spring. the position of interference in the internal affairs of countries is blatantly shown when it is stated that the transition to democracy needs to be promoted through various forms of support, including financial support, in order to support the capacity of civil society to make democratic opposition (...) in a mutually secure and, if necessary, confidential manner. we have, of course, voted against this hypocritical use of the concept of human rights.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it to be in the european union's interest to develop close relations with azerbaijan, a country of geostrategic importance in the eastern neighbourhood. however, i think it is vital to address a number of issues of concern in this country at the present time, concerning the deterioration of the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms. in view of this situation, this agreement will be important in that it calls for safeguard clauses in the agreement with azerbaijan on the protection and promotion of human rights and freedom of expression, association and assembly, which fulfils the requirements for azerbaijan to become a partner.
in writing. − the recommendations voted today under the eu-azerbaijan association agreement, which succeeds the existing eu-azerbaijan cooperation and partnership agreement, significantly deepen azerbaijan's political association and economic integration with the eu. i support the conclusion of this agreement, as i consider that azerbaijan plays an important role in the context of the european union's eastern partnership and there are mutual benefits in the conclusion of these agreements, whether for political stability and the eu's strategic interest in the democratic development of the region, whether for the remarkable economic growth of its internal market, or for the energy issue as it is an important energy supplier of the eu (although the energy aspect has not yet been opened in the negotiations). i consider it of the utmost importance that the negotiations emphasize respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms of citizens (political, association, expression, press and personal self-determination), respect for the judgments of the european court of human rights and the highest international and european standards. it will also be important to refer to the settlement of the nagorno-karabakh conflict, by making efforts within the framework of the eastern partnership to achieve political reconciliation between armenia and azerbaijan.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that azerbaijan plays an important role in the context of the eu's eastern partnership. the agreement aims to make the region more secure by promoting a peaceful solution to the nagorno-karabakh conflict. it also called for the rule of law and freedom of expression for political opponents of the current government and expressed particular concern about the increase in military spending.
in writing. − the european union and azerbaijan are currently negotiating an association agreement to succeed the partnership and cooperation agreement currently binding them. this new agreement will aim to deepen and strengthen the union's political and economic relations with azerbaijan. the energy chapter remains unaddressed and thorny issues such as nagorno-karabakh and the human rights situation remain. i hope that this rapprochement between the union and azerbaijan, which is crucial in the framework of the eastern partnership, will be achieved and that azerbaijan will be able to see in the european ally an example of consistency and a model of voluntary submission to western values and that it will be able to commit itself to converging with them.
in writing. - one of the european union's (eu) concerns has always been its neighbourhood policy. since its foundation, peace and political and social stability have been strategic priorities for the eu, which has sought to establish cooperation agreements with peripheral countries. this report, by anneli jäätteenmäki, contains the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service (eeas) on the negotiations for the eu-azerbaijan cooperation agreement. this is the first time that this parliament has dealt with the negotiating process with azerbaijan, which is being overshadowed by the armed conflict in nagorno karabakh. although azerbaijan is an important partner for the eu, mainly because of the supply of energy but also of other products, we cannot accept the continuing violations of human rights such as house raids and the detention of people without any guilt. despite the progress made since july 2010, i voted in favour of this report and call on the azerbaijani authorities to put an end to the human rights violations and the armed conflict in the nagorno-karabakh region.
in writing. the mandate for the negotiations on the agreement with azerbaijan is inseparable from the mandate for the negotiations with armenia. and both are inseparable from the eu's energy dependence and the recognised strategic importance of the caucasus region as a producer and transit region for important energy resources. this is the central reason for the updating of the existing agreement for a comprehensive and deep free trade area and for the pressures to join the wto, forcing it to open its energy market, placing a substantial part of sovereignty over its natural resources, including energy, at the mercy of european and other multinationals in this important sector.
in writing. − the association agreement now being negotiated between the european union and azerbaijan will replace the partnership and cooperation agreement currently in force. the new negotiations are intended to deepen and strengthen the union's political and economic relations with azerbaijan. however, there are still some issues not covered in this agreement, notably energy. there are also very controversial issues, such as the nagorno-karabakh conflict and the human rights situation in that country. let us hope that they are resolved in the best possible way for the good of all parties. i therefore look forward to this new agreement being an important step forward in the eu's relations with azerbaijan, a very important country in the eastern partnership.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which contains the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations on the eu-azerbaijan association agreement. i would stress, among these recommendations, that the association agreement should be a comprehensive and innovative framework for the future development of relations with azerbaijan, enhancing political association, economic convergence and legal approximation and reflecting the relationship that the european union and azerbaijan have decided to develop.
in writing. − this report concerns the eu-azerbaijan association agreement in the framework of the eu's eastern partnership. the eu's eastern partnership is the political framework that strengthens bilateral relations through association agreements, taking into account the specific situation, mutual benefits and the eu's strategic interest in the stability and democratic development of the region. azerbaijan has played an important role in the eastern partnership and in addressing the eu's energy security challenges, due to its remarkable economic growth. the eu and azerbaijan have signed a new agreement on the settlement of the disputes between the two countries. we cannot, however, fail to appeal to the azerbaijani authorities to ensure greater respect for both the rule of law and the freedom of expression of political opponents, so that we can say that we are indeed facing a genuine democratic process in progress.
in writing. − the european union and azerbaijan are negotiating a future association agreement to replace the current cooperation and partnership agreement. the future agreement will significantly deepen political and economic integration with the european union, but will not include a free trade area as azerbaijan is not a member of the wto. i am voting in favour of the recommendations contained in this document, stressing that the important chapter of the negotiations on the energy issue has not yet been opened and that the subject of human rights must be an essential element of this agreement.
in writing. − the mandate for the negotiations of the agreement with azerbaijan is inseparable from the mandate for the negotiations with armenia and both agreements are inseparable from the eu's energy dependence and the recognised strategic importance of the caucasus region as a producing and transit region. this is the central reason for updating the existing agreement for a comprehensive and deep free trade area and for the pressure to join the wto, forcing the country to open its energy market and to give up a substantial part of its sovereignty over its natural resources, including energy, in favour of the large european multinationals and others in this important sector. ensuring access to and control over natural resources, particularly energy, is vital for the eu, which, faced with a serious crisis, reinforces its policy of interference and all political, economic, diplomatic and other mechanisms to weaken sovereigns, subordinate them to the interests of the eu's great powers and capitalist monopolies hungry for new markets and greater exploitation of workers to generate the huge profits they need to get out of the profit crisis they are in.
in writing. - i support this proposal because it is important to recognise armenia as a european partner and to recognise its european aspirations. at the same time, it is necessary to take account of the progress made in this country with the reforms imposed, which facilitates the association agreement, despite concerns about corruption and tolerance. however, the most serious concern is the issue of nagorno-karabakh, which is dealt with under this agreement and which implies the disengagement of this territory by armenian forces.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider armenia to be an eu partner with european aspirations. the rapporteur recognises the need for further reforms to combat corruption and thus facilitate the negotiations of the association agreement. concerns about the nagorno-karabakh conflict and the demand for the withdrawal of armenian forces from the occupied territory of azerbaijan are legitimate.
in writing. − armenia is a nation with a long history, tradition and culture having been the first country in the world to adopt christianity as its religion. it is a people which suffered for a long time under ottoman and soviet rule, and which is now taking steps towards the institutionalisation of a democracy and a western-style rule of law. the association agreement will help bring armenia closer to the european model and bring it closer to the union. it is up to the armenian leadership and the armenian people to persevere on this path and the european union to support this effort, which we hope will be concrete and fruitful. the next presidential elections will be an important test of the strength of armenia's european option and its adherence to the values of freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law. as in the case of azerbaijan, there are still thorny issues such as nagorno-karabakh, in which both states are involved and which will not be resolved definitively without the commitment of both sides.
in writing. - one of the european union's (eu) concerns has always been its neighbourhood policy. since its foundation, the eu has made peace and political and social stability strategic priorities, and has therefore sought to establish cooperation agreements with peripheral countries. this report, drawn up by tomasz piotr poręba, contains the european parliament's (ep) recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service (eeas) on the negotiations for the eu-armenia cooperation agreement. armenia has shown a certain openness and interest in its approximation to eu values throughout the negotiation process. however, much remains to be done, particularly in the fight against corruption and organised crime, the violation of human rights and the armed conflict in the nagorno-karabakh region where it has its troops. it is essential that the two countries, armenia and azerbaijan, adopt the minsk group initiatives as a matter of urgency. i voted in favour of this report and i urge the armenian authorities to continue with the reforms, particularly in the areas of human rights and freedom of expression, by holding free and fair elections as early as next may.
in writing. - the mandate for the negotiation of an association agreement with armenia is, as with other agreements of this type, a list of unacceptable points. the text not only represents an open interference in the internal affairs of that country, but also provides for the conclusion of a free trade area, as is the case with the vast majority of agreements with third countries in which the eu has interests. it is still and always about insisting on creating conditions for greater exploitation of labour, the opening up of markets and the colonization of countries and the attempt to appropriate their natural resources. the reference to the un charter and the helsinki final act is made in a truncated perspective, which only aims to use the parts that serve the interests that the eu pursues in the region, secondary or ignoring the aspects that do not serve it, in particular those relating to non-intervention in the internal affairs of the countries, respect for their sovereignty, respect for international law and the inviolability of borders. the position taken on the conflict between armenia and azerbaijan over nagorno-karabakh may pave the way for further fragmentation of the region, generating additional factors of increased instability and danger.
in writing. - armenia is now taking important steps towards establishing itself as a democracy and a western-style rule of law. the aim of this association agreement is to help armenia become a stronger country economically and politically. the upcoming presidential elections will be crucial in attesting to armenia's commitment to the values of freedom, democracy, human rights and the rule of law. as in azerbaijan, there are still sensitive issues like nagorno-karabakh, which involve both states and which will not be resolved definitively without a strong commitment from the parties involved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which contains the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations on the eu-armenia association agreement. i do so because i consider the association agreements to be the appropriate framework for deepening relations by strengthening political association, socioeconomic integration and legal rapprochement with the eu, and developing cultural relations, and because i generally agree with the content of the recommendations presented.
in writing. - this report concerns the negotiations on the eu-armenia association agreement. these association agreements provide the appropriate framework for deepening relations, both through the effort of political association and socioeconomic integration and through an increasingly closer legal approach to the eu. armenia's willingness to lay the foundations for genuine regional cooperation, as provided for in the principles underlying the european neighbourhood policy, and its efforts to respect democratic values, the rule of law, good governance practices and promote respect for human rights are to be welcomed. however, it is called for a swift and peaceful resolution of the nagorno-karabakh conflict, as any threat of use of force could jeopardise the joint efforts of the international community. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the association agreement between the european union and armenia aims to deepen relations between the two parties by strengthening political dialogue and boosting economic integration and establishing an agreement aiming at a free trade area and sectoral approximation. with regard to the nagorno-karabakh conflict, it is important to insist on respect for the principles of international law and the need to strengthen the european union's capacity to resolve the conflict.
in writing. - the mandate for the negotiations on an association agreement with armenia is a list of points which are unacceptable for a text which is not only openly interfering in the internal affairs of that country - and that would be too much - but which also aims, as in the case of the vast majority of agreements with third countries in which the eu has interests, at the conclusion of a free trade area. it is still and always the insistence on creating conditions for greater exploitation of labour, the opening up of markets and the colonization of countries and their natural resources. they refer to the un charter and the helsinki final act as if they respected them, but what they do is only use the parts that serve the interests that the eu pursues in the region, secondary or marginalising the aspects that do not serve it, namely non-intervention in the internal affairs of the countries, respect for their sovereignty, respect for international law and the inviolability of borders. instead of contributing to the resolution of the conflict between armenia and azerbaijan over nagorno-karabakh, they open the way to further fragmentation of the region with implicit support for its independence, creating factors of increased instability and danger for the region.
ask him about the blue card procedure. i would like to ask the honourable member why, either i misunderstood or he said that socialism is to blame for all that we have achieved and for the difficulties of people and the situation we are living in. so i would like my colleague to be more explicit and give me a list, and all the colleagues here, of the socialist regimes, those that are so guilty of the situation we have reached, because i honestly do not understand. i would like to know where socialism is, i'm fighting for it, now if you can tell me, it's faster.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i congratulate you on finally bringing to this house issues which we have tried to bring without much success. indeed, employment is at the heart of any growth agenda, of course it is important to mutualise sovereign debt, of course it is essential to strengthen the european budget, of course it is necessary to revise the greek agenda; now, welcome speech, but what is on the ground at the moment is not this: the result is that the revenues which the troika imposes on the countries with the most problems every day completely reverse what i have brought here today. in five years, for example, greece has lost 20% of its gdp, and you are now talking about social cohesion, but poverty is rife throughout europe and it is the private social solidarity organisations, or ngos, that have to replace the state, which is so weak. it speaks of social concertation, but it has been all but destroyed under the power of the troika which has destroyed even constitutional rights, crushed pensions, ignored and destroyed social concertation. it is a question of the need to create small and mediumsized enterprises, but the reduction in demand and the lack of credit force these enterprises to go bankrupt and create unemployment every day. so, mr president, what i want to say to you is that we must get rid of these misunderstandings and contradictory speeches. in fact, there are no jobs without a revival of the economy, but that implies a real marshall plan which is not the financial assistance support you mentioned, these are only to pay interest, debts and renegotiate debts. a true marshall plan is a plan for growth, development and investment. we must unlock the internal demand of countries with surpluses, we must revive a european industrial policy and make external trade policy compatible with it, and we must safeguard minimum levels of welfare and access to public services for european citizens. when is this schedule? and secondly, when will the president-in-office... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, commissioners, we are well aware of the anxiety in the commission and in this parliament at the announcement by the president of argentina of the nationalization of the national oil company, because in argentina they are now correcting the policies which led them to economic and social disaster, precisely the same policies which you want to impose by force on europe. while here they steal from the public sphere strategic sectors of the economy, including profitable companies, as is the case in portugal, on the other side of the atlantic they realise the importance of putting these strategic sectors and companies at the service of economic and social development. what really bothers you is the demonstration of the opposite results of one and the other paths, while others grow and improve their economic and social indicators, you plunge europe into crisis and push us into an unprecedented civilizational retreat. the fear you have is that of example, the example of those who say that the interest of the people is above the interests of capital and that the two are inevitably antagonistic.
mr president, unemployment in the euro zone has reached very high levels, one in three young europeans is unemployed, highly qualified young people are forced to emigrate, social inequalities continue to increase, austerity programmes have been proven not to be the recipe for our problems. there are millions and millions of euros for the banks but no money for the economy. without economic growth there are no jobs, this is not the europe we want. when's the debt settlement? when will the financial transaction tax be introduced? when will fiscal convergence be achieved? when will the offshore end? we need action to get out of this crisis. europe needs a pact for growth and employment, as has already been proposed by the socialist group.
in writing. the eu has been facing serious economic and financial difficulties, forcing some member states to seek external assistance to ensure the sustainability of their public accounts. although many areas of society need to be reformed, i believe that long-term measures must be taken to put the eu on the path to economic growth, job creation and wealth creation. i believe that only a joint european effort will create strategic synergies between the member states and move from the phase of budgetary austerity to a new phase of economic growth. i agree with the words of the president of the european commission that we must move from intentions to action, by shifting the community budget towards investment in growth and jobs. i congratulate the commission on the european policies it has been promoting, in particular the european semester, the reprogramming of community funds worth eur 82 billion and the reinforcement of support for the 23 million european smes and youth employability. i would also like to express my hope and confidence in the future of the european project, believing that greater economic and financial integration will make it possible to achieve greater security for our societies and to assert europe as the leading global power.
on behalf of the s&d group. budgetary consolidation is placing almost unbearable demands on some european citizens. yet, fewer and fewer are bearing a greater burden each day. the tax burden falls on workers, small and mediumsized enterprises and consumers, and yet there is a completely disproportionate amount of tax evasion and avoidance. the group of european socialists wanted to know how much this tax evasion and avoidance is worth in the 27 countries, and it is worth, one million million euros, in english one trillion euros. that's more than the countries of the european union spend on health. this means that if we spent just one fifth of this on investment, investment in europe would rise from 2.7% of gdp to 3.5%. we are therefore talking about an exceptionally high value and the spirit of the resolution we are going to adopt, initiated by this parliament, is precisely a very clear demand that the commission and the council accelerate concrete action to combat tax evasion and fraud. this means, in particular, concrete initiatives on tax cooperation within the european union, on tax cooperation with our neighbouring countries, in particular switzerland, but negotiated by the commission and not on a bilateral basis from one country to another. this means reforming and harmonising accounting rules, increasing transparency and reporting. this clearly means re-activating the fundamental issue of combating tax fraud and tax evasion through tax havens. europe is not a minor partner. europe is a major partner in the international context. europe has an obligation to make clear, within the g20, that it is committed to a common fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. without this we lose credibility with our citizens and that is why my last words in this debate are an encouragement to the commission and the council to start an effective fight against tax fraud and tax evasion.
taxation issues are always controversial when discussed at european level. it is no accident that the treaty of lisbon provides for a rule of unanimity for the bulk of its provisions. it is also no coincidence that indirect taxation has been the subject of the most extensive discussion at european level, but when it comes to taxation, we are discussing the functioning of the internal market, the functioning of the concept of sovereignty and also the own resources of the community budget. on these matters parliament has taken a very clear position, always keeping in mind the necessary balance between these determinations and the maintenance of the tax burden on citizens and on companies. parliament has already referred on several occasions to the need for community-wide taxes. the harmonization of accounting rules, starting with the taxation of companies, and also here through mrs thyssen's extraordinary report which dealt with the issues of fiscal neutrality, voluntary provision, simplification for companies and less bureaucracy, anti-abuse rules and less evasion. from now on, the ball is in the council's court. we hope that this crisis will also be an opportunity to defend the internal market and to defend companies.
mr president, as mrs hübner has pointed out in her report, and i take this opportunity to congratulate her on her excellent work, we are dealing with an exceptional measure which is justified by the exceptional circumstances we are experiencing. the global financial crisis and the unprecedented economic downturn require measures to counterbalance the negative effects of the crisis and its impact that is being widely felt in the real economy, the labour market and citizens. the crisis has increased the pressure on national financial resources and in this context it is now more important than ever to ensure that good cohesion policy is a multiplier effect in the economy. i therefore congratulate the european commission on its proposal which aims to further facilitate co-financing under the erdf and the cohesion fund, which will help to remove obstacles to the mobilisation of the private finance needed to carry out productive investments which can only be partly financed by public funds. under this risk-sharing mechanism, the european commission and the european investment bank will provide capital contributions to cover losses resulting from loans and guarantees to member states that are receiving financial assistance, such as portugal. i now sincerely hope that this measure is just one of many that are needed to stimulate the recovery and growth of these member states, thus also strengthening the competitiveness and cohesion of the european union itself.
mr president, we are again faced with a proposal from the european commission to member states in serious difficulty. it is now proposed, and i quote: to authorize the transfer to the commission of part of the financial transfers made available to the said member states. the purpose of this money, which is thus withdrawn from the initial allocation of member states in difficulty, the structural funds and the cohesion fund, will be to help cover losses resulting from loans and guarantees granted to private investors and banks financing projects co-financed by these funds. we are faced with another sui generis exercise of european solidarity. instead of increasing the appropriations available to these countries, as was called for, what is being done, certainly in anticipation of the next financial perspective, is in practice to reduce the overall amount available to these countries. other ways existed to overcome the severe constraints on the private investment side. in the end, apart from the exorbitant interest charged by the imf/eu programmes, what the people of portugal, greece, ireland and romania are learning more and more clearly is what they can and cannot count on from this european union.
in writing. the current situation of prolonged financial and economic crisis and the constant increase in pressure on national financial resources calls for measures to ensure the smooth implementation of cohesion policy programmes. in order to ensure that the member states and their regions continue to implement the structural funds and cohesion fund programmes, provision is made for the creation of a risk-sharing mechanism. for this mechanism to be feasible, it is necessary to authorise a transfer to the commission of part of the financial allocations made available to those member states. while agreeing that the measure is intended to strengthen synergies between lending programmes and union funds in member states that are or may be receiving assistance from the union and the imf, and to help try to overcome the significant obstacles that some member states face in mobilising the private finance needed to undertake infrastructure and productive investments, i cannot help but point out that i have some reservations as to how this will be processed, as well as some apprehension whether through this mechanism the most disadvantaged regions will not be, for example, again harmed.
ask him about the blue card procedure. mr president, mr weber, in a debate of this kind, we have an obligation to give our citizens a realistic message and not to instill fear or panic in them. the honourable member has made a statement which i think is very ambitious. what i would like to ask you is how you can link the attacks in toulouse to the agreement we are voting on here. as you know, the terrorist's travels from toulouse to pakistan and back were known, what would colleague weber have done? i would have prevented travel or how could i have prevented, if there is any way to prevent the attacks in toulouse by using pna data, which incidentally was used, and did not prevent the attacks. i therefore believe that the honourable member has an obligation to keep to the limits of a debate which is technically realistic and which does not use terrible events, such as those in toulouse, to instill fear in the citizens.
madam president, what this agreement gives you with one hand, let's be honest, it takes away with the other. it says it anonymizes our data after six months, but then it keeps it retrievable for 15 years, and even more than 15 years if necessary. it says we can have a legal recourse, but we know that american law doesn't let us go to an american court in case our data has been breached. then it tells us it's for use in terrorism cases only, unless the authorities deem it necessary to use it in any other situation. and that is why even colleagues who will be voting in favour of this agreement have told us that it is quite possible that this agreement will die in court. i think that if we vote for an agreement where we do not have the guarantees that are given, which are then withdrawn and we have no guarantees that it will survive in court, we are doing a disservice to european democracy, because there is a spectre now going around europe, which is that of the lack of credibility of politicians, and if citizens start to say that politicians have not defended our rights because they said that perhaps we did not know, as mrs foster said, what pnr means and so we can drop it, because what the voters do not know we can drop it and we will let the citizens have to go to the judges afterwards, that is to say that we have done our job poorly and have helped to discredit politics in the european union, and that is very serious. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, in accordance with rule 149 (8))
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. dear axel, thank you for your question, the question that is posed to us here is whether we are going to legitimize something that is contrary to our principles, the charter of fundamental rights and our data protection directive, or not. our alternatives are not whether the americans have access to data that is on their territory, that is on servers on their territory, but we don't have to legalize this looting, we don't have to legitimize it, because if we legitimize it, then the question that will be asked of you in a few months, or in a few years, is whether you are prepared to do the same with china, with saudi arabia, with russia or with other countries that ask and that also have terrorist attacks on their territory. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, pursuant to rule 149 (8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i would be delight to answer mrs foster. i will quote you correctly. you said we are not here to hear lectures from your side. well, let me tell you something, your citizens have elected you to hear lectures from our side just as i have to hear lectures from your side. what i do not accept from you is that you tell us here that we have forgotten the deaths of 9/11. i do not say to you that you are advocating liberticide. i would never tell you that. please do not offend this side of the house by telling us that we have forgotten the victims of terrorism – and i did quote you correctly.
madam president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, i have no doubt that the conclusion of an agreement between the european union and the united states on pnr data is the best solution, as opposed to the conclusion of bilateral agreements, to ensure a coherent approach and a higher degree of legal certainty and protection for our citizens. i appreciate the effort made by commissioner malmström in these negotiations with the united states, but the final result is far from what i think we can and should approve. i shall therefore abstain, for the following reasons in particular: firstly, there is no protection for european citizens. some claim that rights related to access, rectification and deletion of data or the possibility of judicial or administrative redress have been improved. as article 21 of the agreement itself states, these rights could only be conferred to the extent that they are already enshrined in american law, this agreement could only confer new rights if there was an involvement of the american congress, which is not the case. secondly, the use of the pull system. the agreement with australia clearly provided for the push system, unlike the present agreement which still allows for pull extraction. i fully agree that the united states, as a sovereign state, has the right to request information on people who want to enter its territory, but i do not agree with the possibility of entering the airline databases to extract the data it needs, it is one thing for us to sign an agreement in which we commit ourselves to providing data, it is quite another to allow the use of our computers and databases by security forces of third countries. thirdly, the use of sensitive data, the 2004 agreement prohibited its use, while this agreement allows its processing. fourthly, data retention, whereas on the one hand there is an improvement in the anonymisation of data, on the other hand there is an extension of the retention for an indefinite period. madam president, a final word to thank the rapporteur, mrs veld, and my group's shadow rapporteur, mr voss, for their work.
the pnr agreement which the commission has negotiated with the united states has serious problems. we are particularly concerned that european citizens do not have the right to judicial review in the united states, that is, they do not have the means of appeal available to americans. however bad it is, this agreement is far better than the 2007 agreement that applies today and it is far better than the agreements that have been negotiated by european governments bilaterally with the united states. in the case of my country, portugal, such an agreement was subserviently ratified by the national parliament against the serious warnings of the national data protection authority. if the european parliament does not give its consent to this text, the bilateral agreements are much more burdensome and will enter into force, if the european parliament gives its consent to this agreement, nevertheless, european citizens will be more protected and parliament will be able to monitor the application of the agreement in accordance with the commitment made by the european commission. that is why i am voting in favour of this agreement.
madam president, this is a point of order. i am sorry to interrupt the debate but i have been informed that the english and german interpretations have apparently made a serious mistake about my speech. i said i could not approve the agreement and explained why. but it seems that these two versions - i don't know if this has been the case for other versions - say the complete opposite. i would like to stress to all colleagues that i shall abstain, as i said in my speech.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank everyone for this very good debate. i also appreciate the good cooperation i have had with the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, with the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs. let me quickly answer a few questions. firstly, scope. the scope of this is to fight terrorism and serious cross-border crime, which carries a penalty of three years. customs, migration and border controls are not additional purposes. the reference to vital interests applies to life-and-death matters and communicable diseases. this arose in only four cases during the review we did on the current agreement from 2007 to 2010. that is four cases, none of which involved european pnr data. secondly, court orders. in the us constitution and some european constitutions, a court can ask for pnr data to be used to prove whether someone has been on a plane or not, for instance. this only happened once in our evaluation, so these cases are extremely rare and they are all logged. thirdly, ‘push’ and ‘pull’. in this agreement – in contrast to the current one – ‘push’ is the norm. this has been welcomed by the association of european airlines and the international organisation of airlines. a vast majority of carriers already use this method and will be able to comply with the requirement to have ‘push’ capacity within two years. fourthly, redress. it is spelled out in the agreement that anybody can appeal to the court against a decision to refuse access because of his or her data under the freedom of information act. the us privacy act does not give these rights to eu citizens, but the traveler redress inquiry programme is available for all decisions made by the us government that may be subject to judicial review. it is also possible to claim compensation. finally, the content of the data. the data registered are the data you give when you book an airline ticket. you do not say if you are a member of a trade union. you do not say in that booking what you intend to buy at the airport. the data is registered. i do not know how well informed passengers are about this (as was mentioned in the debate with mrs foster and others), but we say in the agreement that the us must inform passengers about this. this is a major improvement. profiling is prohibited by article 7 and article 9. as has been said, the united states has the right to ask for data from an individual who intends to land on its territory, as does any country. they do it today, they have done it in the past, and they will do it in the future, as most of our member states do. we are currently negotiating eu pnr, which i am looking forward to debating with you later. why? because our member states think that this is a valuable and important tool to fight terrorism and – even more importantly – drug smuggling and people smuggling. what we are here to do is to make sure that the transfer of data is used in a proportionate, limited way, with the strongest protection possible when it comes to fundamental rights and integrity. this is our collective duty. you asked the commission to renegotiate the 2007 agreement in force today. we all did that with strong support from the parliament, clear directions in your resolution and with the support of the council as well. it is not perfect. you did not get 100% of what you asked for. however, on all points it is a better agreement than the one we currently have. this is why we are asking for your agreement. we attach great importance to this agreement, as you all do. we will review it, and in the review, mrs sippel, there will be data protection experts present. i undertake – as i did earlier in my declaration – to be fully transparent and to report to you at all stages of these evaluations and reviews.
president of the council. i would like to thank you again for the opportunity to take part in this debate today. it is an important subject which we have discussed here today and the debate has again shown today that it is a matter to which we all attach very great importance. it is not an easy matter, as the debate today has shown, and many of the concerns raised today have been discussed in depth. but i would like to say, as commissioner malmström has said, that the presidency believes that the agreement we have today is better than the one we have. and that is the fundamental question that needs to be answered. the agreement is and will be better than what we have and it will give us better opportunities to strengthen the fight against serious crossborder crime. it is very understandable that some of you still have reservations about the draft agreement. but i hope that both myself and commissioner malmström have been made quite clear that we take the reservations and questions very seriously. at the same time, you should know that many of the issues raised today have also been the subject of discussions in the council. i would also like to conclude by emphasizing that this agreement does not mark the end of the transatlantic dialogue on the use of pnr data. the provisions of the agreement on evaluations will enable us to ensure that the provisions of the agreement on limitation of purpose are respected in practice. i therefore think it is important that we see this agreement as a good step towards a new framework for the use of pnr data - a framework which offers room for improvement but which also solves a pressing problem affecting both our citizens and our airlines. as commissioner malmström has said, both the european parliament and the council will be involved and informed when the agreement is to be evaluated. i can of course give my full support to that on behalf of the council. i thank you again for the opportunity to be here today for this important discussion of a very important proposal.
in writing. most people using air transport will be unaware of what the pnr - the passenger name record - is. moreover, you will not know the use that is made of this register today. the pnr may contain various information, such as name, address, passport number, credit card number, or information about other accompanying passengers, travel routes, etc. it is this roll of personal data, relating to any passenger, which is now being sent by airlines to the united states department of homeland security, now and forever, in the name of the so-called fight against terrorism - the pretext for all kinds of stampedes and gross violations of the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens. all this with the complicity of the european commission. as the rapporteur has pointed out, tens of thousands of passenger records are sent to the us authorities every day, without the passengers' knowledge. that has been the case in recent years. these data may also be sent to third countries. this genuine big brother will now be backed by the european parliament, supported in the committee on civil liberties (irony of ironies) by the usual stooges: the right and the social democrats. that is an unacceptable decision. justifying outrage, reporting, mobilizing and fighting.
human trafficking is the modern form of slavery and the second most lucrative activity for organised crime worldwide, affecting millions of people. i look forward to the strategy that the commission will present to us shortly, providing a more comprehensive approach that can deal more effectively with this type of crime and, at the same time, strengthen the aspect of prevention and protection of victims, with special attention to children and other groups at risk. the directive adopted in 2010 represented an important step forward in creating common minimum standards and closing the existing legal gap. it is now up to the member states to transpose it in time - by april 2013. i welcome the creation of an eu anti-trafficking coordinator who should contribute to a more coherent and coordinated anti-trafficking strategy by outlining general strategic guidelines and guidelines to be applied in cooperation with third countries. it is also positive that the commission has set up a working group to combat trafficking and that the council has set up a network of reports and equivalent mechanisms to analyse this phenomenon and collect reliable data.
in writing. - i support it because i believe that a partnership tool can improve forest governance. the partner countries and the european commission will have to coordinate for an effective implementation of this agreement. the establishment of this partnership is another step towards protecting the quality standards required of europeans for products imported from third countries, most of which do not comply with the same legislation as european producers. in this sense, it is an agreement which may lead to the establishment of other agreements with third countries, which should cover different economic sectors of activity.
in writing. − the exploitation and trade of illegal timber undermines the competitiveness of legitimate forest industries in both exporting and importing countries, limiting the ability of these industries to carry out operations that promote sustainable forest management as well as sustainable development, with the central african republic (car) being one such example. the voluntary partnership agreement which is voted on today and which i support is of great importance in that it provides a tool to tackle this problem, improves regulation, governance and enforcement in the forestry sector, and commits the car to implementing systems for verifying legal compliance and traceability throughout the supply chain from slaughter to the issuance of flegt export licences. while sustainable forest development wins, the eu also strengthens new market opportunities for car's wood products. 60% of the timber is exported to europe in a sector that represents 4% of the rca's gdp. i would stress that in implementing this agreement, efforts must nevertheless be made to promote fair solutions which do not have an impact on the most deprived sectors of society, such as the rural populations who make a living from this activity, leaving the most powerful unharmed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that voluntary partnership agreements are the basis of an eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt), as they establish partnerships with timber producers and exports between countries with the intention of stopping illegal logging. i consider vpas to be a partnership instrument that promotes better forest governance.
in writing. the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the central african republic (car) is imperative for the importation or non-importation of precious timber from that african country. the car has over 30% of its territory covered by tropical forests. it is not surprising, then, that timber exports account for about 40 percent of that country's exports. the partnership agreement comes at a good time to discourage illegal timber trade, as well as the unjustified destruction and irreparable loss of forests that are devastated by informal and illegal producers and traders. the agreement will also provide a guarantee to eu countries that they are buying timber harvested in a sustainable and balanced way and that they are not contributing, even unintentionally, to the destruction of tropical forests.
in writing. - climate change, which in recent decades has affected the planet through unexpected natural disasters, has put the problem of large-scale deforestation on the agenda, especially in the amazon region, considered the lungs of the planet, and on the african continent. the text under discussion concerns the draft council decision on the signing of a voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) between the european union (eu) and the central african republic (car) on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber and timber products imported into the eu under the flegt (forest law enforcement, governance and trade) action plan. this is an eu initiative to prevent illegally harvested timber from entering europe. the eu-car voluntary partnership agreement, signed on 28 november 2011, needs to be approved by the european parliament in advance in order to enter into force. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider it essential that there should be legislation to promote the sustainability of the forestry sector and to prevent indiscriminate logging. in addition, this vpa will contribute to the overall and sustainable development of the car.
in writing. − the objectives of the flegt voluntary partnership agreement with the central african republic (car) are to combat the problem of illegal logging and to help improve regulation, governance and enforcement in the car forestry sector. illegal logging contributes to the destruction and degradation of ecosystems of great importance, both from the functional point of view and from the point of view of the natural values they contain. but a correct approach to the causes of this problem requires recognition that it is inextricably linked to the enormous weakness of these countries' economies, as well as to the significant levels of poverty among their populations, this activity sometimes being the sole source of income for many families. the rapporteur herself states that many indigenous communities living in the rainforests of the car depend on the use of forest resources. it follows that the end of illegal or unsustainable logging will only be possible if the dire social and economic situation in countries such as the car is properly addressed and resolved, and if an economic model based on the high dependence on logging and export of a limited number of raw materials to industrialized countries is reversed.
in writing. − in 2003, the eu developed an action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt). it provided for partnerships with timber producing and exporting countries to ensure that only legally harvested timber was traded and to promote sound forest governance. like the flegt voluntary partnership agreements, the agreement with the central african republic provides an instrument to address the problem of illegal logging, to help improve regulation, governance and enforcement in the country's forest sector, and to enhance market opportunities for central african timber products in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision on the signing of a voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the central african republic on forestry law enforcement, governance and trade in timber and timber products imported into the european union (flegt). i did so because i believe that this partnership instrument aims to improve standards of management, sustainability and accountability in the forestry sector and because it is expected that the vpa will contribute positively to overall development and growth in the central african republic, including by safeguarding revenues generated by timber exports to the eu and other international markets. the instrument also provides that in future the tax revenues from industrial forestry will increasingly benefit the local economy and communities.
in writing. − the partnership agreement with the central african republic (car), signed on 28 november 2011, comes within the framework of the 2003 eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt), which provides for the establishment of partnerships with timber producing and exporting countries to ensure that only legally harvested timber is traded and to promote sound forest governance. this agreement is an instrument to address the problem of illegal logging, to help improve regulation, governance and enforcement in the country's forest sector, and to enhance market opportunities for central african timber products in europe. in addition to being a partnership instrument to improve management standards, sustainability and accountability in the forestry sector, the vpa is expected to contribute positively to overall development and growth in the central african republic, inter alia, by safeguarding revenues generated by timber exports to the eu and other international markets. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − in addition to being a partnership instrument to improve management standards, sustainability and accountability in the forestry sector, the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the central african republic is expected to contribute positively to overall development and growth in the latter, in particular by safeguarding revenues generated by timber exports to the eu and other international markets. it should be noted that although the voluntary partnership agreement provides for measures for better forest governance and has gained wide support, the main challenges now lie in its effective implementation. the eu's technical and financial support for the implementation of the vpa will be crucial to this end.
in writing. − the main purpose of the flegt voluntary partnership agreement with the central african republic (car) is to combat the problem of illegal logging by helping to improve regulation, governance and enforcement in the car forestry sector. but how does one really solve the problem of illegal logging in the forestry sector of these countries? by combating the fragility of these countries' economies, in particular by eradicating poverty, which is one of the causes of the illegal logging of forest resources, the only means of subsistence for many families and communities. to do this, it is imperative to reverse the economic model based on the high dependence on the exploitation and export of a limited number of raw materials to the industrialized countries, which robs these countries of their main wealth.
in writing. - i approve this report. forests require partnerships for better management of their resources. it is important that, like the agreement with the central african republic, the european union should adopt strict criteria for importing products from third countries, so that they meet the same quality standards as those required of europeans. this agreement can serve as a good model for other partnership projects with third countries in various sectors of activity.
in writing. − the exploitation and trade of illegal timber undermines the competitiveness of legitimate forest industries in both exporting and importing countries, limiting the ability of these industries to carry out operations that promote sustainable forest management and sustainable development. in the case of liberia, it is particularly important because for a long time the country was subject to un sanctions on timber imports because of the sector's involvement in financing the civil war. it is noted that approximately 45% of the territory is covered by forests, allowing this voluntary partnership agreement with the eu to allow liberia to simultaneously address the problems associated with illegal logging and trade, improve forest sustainability and expand market opportunities with the union in the timber sector. i also welcome the fact that the partnership agreement with liberia has been a multilateral approach with a high level of involvement of civil society, industry and forest communities, with particular attention to the new legality verification system, independent audits, transparency of the process and exchange of information and the creation of a joint implementation committee to oversee the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that these voluntary partnership agreements are the basis of an eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt). liberia presents a very particular context, as approximately 45% of its territory is covered by forest. the efforts of this country to reform the forestry sector should be recognised and encouraged.
in writing. - given that about 45% of the republic of liberia is covered by forest and that the country is home to half of the remaining tropical forests in west africa, and given that much of these forests were cleared during the 14 years of civil war to finance the war itself, i can only welcome the efforts of the current president of liberia to structure the forestry sector and create a legal framework to allow the sustainable marketing of that country's timber. in this context i welcome the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia on wood products.
in writing. − some 45% of liberia's territory is covered by tropical forest, the timber of which was used to finance the armed conflict between 1997 and 2003, leading the un security council to decree an embargo on timber from this country until 2006. the text under consideration concerns the draft council decision on the signing of a voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) between the european union (eu) and liberia on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber and timber products imported into the eu under the flegt (forest law enforcement, governance and trade) action plan. this is an eu initiative to prevent illegally harvested timber from entering europe. the eu-liberia voluntary partnership agreement, signed on 27 july 2011, needs to be approved by the european parliament in advance in order to enter into force. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider it essential that there should be legislation to promote the sustainability of the forestry sector and to prevent indiscriminate logging. in addition, this vpa will contribute to the overall and sustainable development of liberia.
in writing. - this report recommends the conclusion of the flegt voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) with liberia. as with the other flegt agreements, the aim is to tackle illegal logging, help improve regulation, governance and enforcement in the forestry sector in these two countries and strengthen market opportunities for wood products in europe. the vpas aim to provide third countries with national regulations to implement systems for verification of compliance and traceability throughout the supply chain, slaughter standards and controls of consignments for export. the eu thus ensures favourable access to timber products from liberia. this whole approach is not without its contradictions. these agreements are not in themselves the solution to the problem of illegal logging. liberia, like other african countries, is an extremely poor country. for this reason, it is important first of all to promote the development of these countries by supporting the diversification of their economies, by reversing an economic model based on a high dependence on the exploitation and export of a limited number of raw materials to the industrialized countries, by maintaining neo-colonial relations of dependence and subjugation, which lead to the exhaustion of resources.
in writing. − in december 2005, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a series of voluntary partnership agreements (vpas) with timber producing and exporting countries, in order to promote the marketing of legally harvested timber to the eu market and to improve forest governance in partner countries. these bilateral agreements are a cornerstone of the eu's forest law enforcement, governance and trade (flegt) action plan to end illegal logging. the vpas oblige partner countries to market only products from legally verified wood to the eu. the agreements establish a framework, institutions and systems for a licensing regime to verify the legality of timber exports, and also define supply chain controls, a framework for legal compliance control and independent audit requirements. the partner countries develop, under the terms of the gpas and with the support of the eu, their systems for verifying the legality of their timber exports to the eu. this agreement with liberia is another step towards ending the import of illegal timber from african countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia on forestry law enforcement, governance and trade with regard to timber products imported into the european union. i did so because i believe that this partnership instrument will contribute positively to liberia's overall development and growth and because it is expected to enable liberia to put an end to illegal deforestation and forest degradation, which contribute to climate change.
in writing. − these bilateral agreements are a cornerstone of the eu's action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade to end illegal logging. as in previous voluntary partnership agreements, the agreement with liberia is expected to help improve governance and law enforcement in the forestry sector in the country. in addition to creating a partnership instrument to enable liberia to end illegal deforestation and forest degradation, which contribute to climate change, the vpa should improve market opportunities for liberian timber products in european and other international markets. in this way, and because i believe that the agreement can contribute positively to liberia's overall development and growth, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia should help improve governance and law enforcement in the country's forestry sector. in addition to creating a partnership instrument that enables liberia to end illegal deforestation and forest degradation, the agreement should improve market opportunities for liberian timber products in european and other international markets. the main challenges now lie in their effective implementation and monitoring, as capacity building is a critical issue for liberia, for which the support of the eu and its member states is needed.
in writing. - this report recommends the conclusion of the flegt voluntary partnership agreement (vpa) with liberia. the aim of the vpas is to provide third countries with national regulations to implement systems for verifying compliance and traceability throughout the supply chain, slaughter standards and controls of consignments for export, in this case in relation to the forestry sector. however, we believe that the real solution to combating illegal logging is to eradicate poverty in these countries, to promote their development by supporting the diversification of their economies, to reverse an economic model based on the high dependence on the exploitation and export of a limited number of raw materials to industrialized countries, and to maintain neo-colonial relations of dependence and subjugation, which lead to the exhaustion of resources.
in writing. - i support this proposal because it is particularly useful at a time of serious economic and social crisis affecting the whole of europe and especially countries currently receiving external aid, such as portugal, greece and ireland. we must also take into account those member states whose financial stability is threatened, such as spain and italy, which may then affect the entire macroeconomic stability of the european union. i also believe that it is clear that countries such as those i have mentioned cannot emerge from the crisis without making effective use of cohesion policy, and european co-financing is essential to generate productive investment projects. as i have always argued, this proposal will allow for the transfer of part of the financial allocations available for cohesion policy to these member states in the period 2007-2013, which may cover the risks related to the loans and guarantees given to project promoters, and because as proposed this would not imply changes in the overall cohesion policy allocation in the period 2007-2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it aims to help the member states most affected by the financial crisis by enabling them to implement programmes financed by the structural and cohesion funds. the proposal will allow the transfer of financial appropriations available for cohesion policy to these member states in order to cover the risks of loans and to provide guarantees to project promoters.
in writing. - there are currently several countries receiving aid from the european union and the international monetary fund. the aim of this revision of the regulation, the third since the start of the economic crisis, is to ensure the continuation of the implementation of programmes co-financed by the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund in the context of economic recovery in the member states under financial assistance. the aim is to create a temporary derogation under these two programmes by creating a risk-sharing mechanism to avoid the total suspension of infrastructure projects due to the lack of private co-financing. it should be noted that only projects for which the european investment bank or similar institutions have taken a favourable position will be eligible for funding under the risk-sharing mechanism, thus ensuring that only revenue-generating and economically viable projects are covered. finally, i congratulate the initiative which i hope will be as successful as previous initiatives of a similar nature.
in writing. − the report under review concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1083/2006 as regards certain provisions applying to risk-sharing mechanisms for member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. this is a very important measure and takes account of the needs of member states in difficulty as it will promote economic development and job creation. there are very important development projects that are stalled due to lack of liquidity. i voted in favour of this proposal, which is harmful to the community budget since it does not require an increase in its appropriations, because i believe that the european union should support those member states which, because of the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing, are in a difficult situation to co-finance investment projects supported by community funds and are at risk not only of having to repay the money but also of suffering penalties. finally, i hope that the european investment bank and the commission will quickly complete all the procedural issues so that the member states can benefit from this measure.
in writing. - this proposal contains provisions to create a risk-sharing mechanism based on a commitment to transfer capital from the structural and cohesion funds from the member states to the european commission, i.e. the transfer of part of the financial allocations made available to countries in difficulty - thus reducing the remaining global allocations. the aim is to concentrate this capital in the european investment bank to cover planned and unforeseen losses arising from loans and guarantees. the so-called risk-sharing is established between the eib and other national or international financial institutions, public or private, which will grant the loans to project sponsors and banks, with a view to providing private co-financing for projects implemented with the contributions of the structural funds and the cohesion fund. as we said during the debate, there were other ways of overcoming the existing constraints on the side of private investment. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are therefore faced with another exercise of european solidarity sui generis. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road.
in writing. − in july 2011, the euro area heads of state or government asked the commission and the eib to strengthen synergies between lending programmes and union funds in the member states that are receiving assistance from the union and the international monetary fund at the time the amendment enters into force. the measure is intended to try to overcome the significant obstacles faced by some member states in mobilising the private financing needed to carry out infrastructure and productive investments that can only be partially financed by public funds. i think this is a good measure to enable the member states involved to continue investing in infrastructure and productive projects.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on certain provisions applicable to risk-sharing mechanisms for member states affected or threatened by serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability, as it is in line with the objective of this instrument, which is to ensure the continuation of the implementation of programmes co-financed by the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund (cf) in the context of the economic recovery of the member states under financial assistance.
in writing. - i welcome the european commission's proposal to further facilitate the co-financing of programmes under the erdf and the cohesion fund, which will help to overcome the obstacles related to the mobilisation of the necessary private funding. i voted in favour of this strengthening of the risk-sharing mechanism for member states affected or threatened by serious difficulties with regard to their financial stability, as is the case with portugal, hoping that this will contribute to their economic recovery.
in writing. − the objective of this proposal, which establishes the so-called risk-sharing, is that the eib and other national or international financial institutions, public or private, grant the loans to project sponsors and banks, with a view to providing private co-financing for projects implemented with contributions from the structural funds and the cohesion fund. however, this proposal has a serious problem the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary resources allocated to the structural funds and cohesion fund are used to finance the necessary measures. what was needed was more money for these countries.
in writing. - as regards the european union's position on the united states, the european union has not yet taken a decision on the matter, and the united states has not yet taken a decision on the matter.
in writing. the resolution under consideration, tabled by mrs cornelia ernst on behalf of the gue/ngl group, concerns a request for an opinion from the court of justice on the compatibility with the treaties of the eu-us agreement of the use and transfer of passenger identification records to the us department of homeland security. after the tragic events of september 11, 2001, all airlines have increased their security levels. as regards travel between europe and the united states of america (usa), the latter began to require a set of passenger data which, to a certain extent, violated the right to data protection in force in the european union, specifically with regard to personal data (banking, health conditions, etc.), as referred to in the opinion of the european court of justice. however, in recent years there has been a great deal of convergence between the us and the eu position. moreover, given the urgency of the matter, the new conditions are the best possible and do not compare with those which could be the subject of bilateral agreements. i therefore believe that the new agreement is better than the bilateral ones and that is why i voted against this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - this resolution, proposed by our group, critically questions the legitimacy of the pnr agreement. the gue/ngl calls on the european court of justice to rule on the legality of this. it should be recalled that in the past this body has ruled that the first agreement concluded by the commission was illegal. in our view, this agreement is another act of submission by the eu to the us. the country, under the pretext of the so-called fight against terrorism, is deepening a disturbing trend towards security and persecution, which is not unrelated to attempts to criminalise the struggle and social protest, especially at a time of deepening of the crisis of capitalism and its effects. most people who use air transport will be unaware of what the pnr is - the passenger identification record. moreover, it will not know the use which is made of this register today and the use to which this agreement opens the door. the gue/ngl is thus making an invaluable contribution by its outstanding intervention in this debate to the denunciation of the content and consequences of this agreement - something which is essential to the dynamisation of the necessary fight and rejection of this intolerable attack on the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for an opinion of the court of justice of the european union on the compatibility with the treaties of the eu-us agreement on the use and transfer of passenger identification records to the united states department of homeland security, as i consider that in several respects there is a deterioration compared to the first agreement of 2004.
in writing. the eu and the us pnr agreement, which allows the us department of homeland security to have access to a panoply of personal data of all passengers travelling to and from the us or making a stopover in the us, is one of the documents this parliament has approved that most attacks the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. the eu/ngl resolution critically questions the legitimacy of this agreement, including from the perspective of the protection of individual data, and requests that the european court of justice rule on the legality of the agreement. in our view, this agreement is another act of submission by the eu to the us, which, under the pretext of the so-called fight against terrorism, is deepening its security and surveillance drift, which can lead (and leads) to the persecution of all those who do not align and fight us imperialism, who differ in their way of thinking, and even share ideals of social progress that go against us interests. we reiterate that we will do everything to stop and prevent the implementation of this shameful agreement.
in writing. - i approve this report. the new agreement is not perfect, but it does end up giving more protection to european travellers moving to the united states of america. since 2007 there has been an agreement negotiated by the european commission and a series of much less appropriate bilateral agreements with the us. this is the best that has been achieved so far in the negotiations. so if this agreement had not been approved, we would have kept a worse picture in force. today it is possible to monitor its application and to demand corrections or even suspension, which is a development and is in the text of the european commission's commitment. however, he is concerned that european citizens do not have access to judicial review in the us. but in general, passenger records can be a tool in the fight against terrorism and other forms of transnational organised crime, and it is always important from this point of view to have agreements like this that seek to respond to these challenges of today.
in writing. − international judicial cooperation and transatlantic cooperation are essential in the fight against terrorism. the existence of a long-term agreement on the processing and transfer of personal data and passenger identification between the european union and the united states of america is therefore to be welcomed. but such an agreement must not unduly affect the rights of european citizens. the legal requirements for fair, necessary, proportionate and lawful processing of personal data should therefore apply in all circumstances. this agreement between the european union and the united states seems to seek to strike a reasonable balance between the protection of the rights of european citizens and the necessary security guarantees which ultimately benefit us all. i therefore vote in favour of the text of this agreement and i believe, as commissioner malmström has said, that this is the best possible agreement - and the one that best protects european citizens - and should therefore deserve the support of this house.
in writing. − the tragic events of 11 september 2001 in the united states of america (usa) have raised the need for governments and airlines to strengthen their security levels and thus prevent acts of terrorism that could destroy thousands of human lives. since 2007, the european union (eu) has been seeking to negotiate an agreement with the us on the use and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data to the us department of homeland security. however, the keeping of passenger data on file and the requested information of a personal nature (health, financial situation, etc.) have been the subject of the greatest reservations due to violations of data protection standards. the conclusion of an agreement between the union and the united states on the use and transfer of passenger name records (pnr) is the best solution, as opposed to the conclusion of bilateral agreements. this proposal represents a major us approximation to the positions advocated by the eu. however, this agreement does not guarantee any more protection for european citizens. note that a push system is allowed instead of a pull system. in this way nothing guarantees that there can be no debauchery of our computers and databases. i therefore abstained on this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − the approval of this us-eu pnr agreement allows the us department of homeland security to access a vast array of personal data of all european passengers travelling to and from the us or making a stopover in the us. information to which the us may have access, for example, includes hotel and car reservations, telephone numbers, e-mail addresses, private and business addresses, credit card numbers, personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin. but also, as various voices have warned, data on political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, union membership, as well as other data concerning health or sexual orientation. this agreement, which is always invoked under the pretext of fighting terrorism, undermines the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens by breaching basic data protection rules. this agreement may still be unilaterally modified by the us department of homeland security at any time. this data may be used for unspecified purposes and will be kept for 15 years. we are facing a real big brother, justifying indignation, denunciation, mobilization and struggle.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the fight against terrorism to be crucial if we are to live in a world of peace and prosperity. when we think about the us demands when it comes to the entry of citizens into their country, we cannot forget that the us was attacked on its own territory and the weapons used were aircraft. i therefore agree that the information needed to prevent this from happening again in the future should be provided, even if it may appear to be inadequate or exaggerated. every citizen can be sure that his rights, freedoms and guarantees will never be affected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the eu-us agreement on the transfer of passenger data to and from the united states for the following reasons: (a) the agreement regulates and limits the obligation to provide data arising from us law by imposing commitments on the us vis-à-vis the eu; it is much better than the 2007 agreement, than existing bilaterals, and than no agreement at all. (b) passenger personal data are an essential tool in the fight against terrorism and other transnational crimes (drug and human trafficking). (c) the right to the safety of passengers and of persons in general is no less important than the right to the protection of personal data; the personal data concerned do not involve sensitive data; the agreement strikes a satisfactory balance between the right to security and the right to the protection of personal data and is not, in my view, incompatible with european law in this area. (d) the agreement gives european and member state security authorities access to data and research from us authorities, which helps european security itself while the union does not have its own system for collecting and processing passenger personal data.
in writing. - i abstained because i believe that voting no, by promoting the absence of an eu-us agreement, could open the door to bilateral agreements between the us and each of the member states, weakening the eu-us negotiation, but at the same time i believe that i cannot vote in favour because that would be accepting an agreement which in many respects represents a setback compared to the first agreement of 2004. the rights of european citizens could and should have been better protected.
in writing. − the european union and the united states of america face a number of common challenges in ensuring an effective fight against international terrorism as part of a broader global agenda. in this joint effort, the exchange of information, particularly in the area of the transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data by air carriers operating flights between the eu and the us, serves the purpose of countering the threat to international peace and security. the purpose of the processing of pnr data is limited to the prevention, detection and repression of terrorist acts and serious transnational crime. in addition, the period of data retention is limited, the disclosure of pnr information is subject to legal limitations and the push data export method is considered the regular mode of transfer. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the renegotiated agreement, concluded in november 2011, on the use and transfer of passenger identification records to the us department of homeland security provides greater legal certainty and security for passengers and airlines. the european union has made significant progress in data protection and cooperation with the us authorities. i believe that rejecting the agreement, as the rapporteur proposes, would mean that the united states could go on to conclude bilateral agreements with the member states and with the airlines. the agreement does not, however, guarantee full reciprocity in data processing, which is why i abstain.
in writing. − the us-eu pnr agreement allows the us department of homeland security to have access to a panoply of personal data of all passengers travelling to and from the us or making a stopover in the us. such data may, for example, consist of hotel and car reservations, telephone numbers, e-mail addresses, private and professional addresses, credit card numbers, personal data revealing racial or ethnic origin, data on political opinions, religious or philosophical beliefs, trade union membership and other data relating to health or sex life. it is an agreement which, under the pretext of the so-called fight against terrorism, shamefully attacks the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. this agreement may be unilaterally modified by the u.s. department of homeland security at any time; these data may be used for unspecified purposes and will be kept for 15 years at the end of which they will not be destroyed. in short, the aim is clear: to provide the us intelligence services with information that will lead them to criminalize and prosecute all those who oppose their imperialist dictates, all those who dare to resist the capitalist system.
in writing. - i approve this report as this proposal provides for the existence of a consolidated common tax base (ccctb) for companies and business associations operating in the internal market, in which they will have to complete a single tax document. the great advantage of this report is that it allocates the proceeds of these taxes to the different member states on the basis of a formula which takes account of three factors: employment, goods and sales. the major successes of the european parliament's version, compared with that of the european commission, are essentially two: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the application of the regulation to large undertakings or cooperatives two years after its entry into force and to small and medium-sized undertakings five years after its entry into force.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative proposal as it will allow companies and groups of companies operating in the internal market to pay a common corporate tax after a transitional period, which will be allocated to the different member states through a sharing formula that takes into account three factors: labour, assets and sales.
in writing. the text under discussion, for which marianne thyssen is responsible, deals with the proposal for a council directive on the common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb). in a time of crisis such as the one we are experiencing, it is important that reforms are undertaken that improve the economy and stimulate growth. the proposal for a directive, although not binding on member states, is a very important step towards creating a more favourable competitive environment for businesses and the revival of the economy. this is a more transparent system which eliminates double taxation, has less red tape (the member states will apply their taxation through a single point of contact) and less tax evasion. the existence of a review clause allows member states to verify whether the application of this directive is positive or negative for the pursuit of a market economy generating growth and job creation. i voted in favour because it is an optional system, free of charge for businesses, which will contribute to economic growth within the eu.
in writing. the proposal proposes to regulate the taxation of income of companies and groups of companies operating in more than one member state. it proposes a distribution formula which will determine the distribution of the collectable matter among the member states. this formula, which takes as factors the value of sales, the number of employees and the value of personnel costs and the value of fixed assets, is inaccurate because it abstracts from concrete factors which may be of considerable importance. on the other hand, consideration of the wage bill or the value of labour also has the harmful consequence of disproportionately distributing profits to the countries where labour is more expensive. the commission notes that the tax system in force in the netherlands is based on the principle of the arm's length principle, which is the principle of the arm's length principle. the mcccis is optional, but it cannot be applied to smes, only to european companies and european cooperative societies, which will give multinationals an advantage over domestic companies.
in writing. − the ccctb is an indispensable instrument for the completion of the european internal market and for the achievement of the european economic integration necessary for the stability of the euro area. the present crisis must not be an obstacle to its implementation, quite the contrary. very important for the introduction of the cfsp, in my view, was the joint letter sent by the german chancellor and the french president to the president of the european council on 18 august 2011, calling for the conclusion of the cfsp negotiations by the end of 2012 and explicitly stating that they are working on a bilateral franco-german intergovernmental initiative. in order to maximise the benefits of the mcccis system, it is desirable to introduce it throughout the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the thyssen report on the common corporate tax base (irc in portugal) because i consider it an important step towards tax harmonisation and transparency in the union, making life easier for companies operating in more than one country and allowing comparison of the effective taxation of companies in the member states. moreover, a common tax base is a necessary condition for future convergence in corporate taxation, starting with the establishment of a minimum rate. that is why i voted in favour of the gue's proposal. in fact, without harmonization of corporate taxation, the current system of tax competition - which is contrary to the very idea of the single market - will persist, allowing for tax dumping and favouring the race to the bottom of corporate taxation and tax revenue for the state.
in writing. − this proposal for a directive on a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) introduces common rules for calculating the tax base of companies operating in the european union. i voted in favour of this directive because i consider it to be an indispensable instrument for the completion of the european internal market and for the achievement of the european economic integration which is necessary for the stability of the euro area.
in writing. − the council directive on a common consolidated corporate tax base (ccctb) introduces common rules for calculating the tax base of companies operating in the eu. the harmonisation brought about by that directive concerns only the calculation and allocation of the taxable amount, since the determination of the rate of tax to be applied is the responsibility of each member state. nor does the directive affect national rules on financial accounting. the introduction of the ccctb brings numerous benefits, such as increased tax transparency, which will make the tax system more equitable and effective, reducing enforcement costs and red tape, making the eu more attractive to foreign investors, as well as reducing tax evasion and avoidance and double taxation. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − in march 2011, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive on the consolidated common corporate tax base aimed at tackling some of the main tax obstacles to the growth of the single market. i believe that the interaction between national tax systems and the absence of common rules on taxable income will lead to double taxation and high administrative burdens for the companies involved. i agree with the draft legislative resolution in that i believe that it is necessary to adopt well-defined rules for common collectibles. those rules will contribute to strengthening the single market, facilitating the work of smes operating in cross-border areas and encouraging private investment in line with the europe 2020 strategy. in this connection, i believe that greater fiscal stabilisation at european level should be achieved in order to achieve greater security for european businesses and thus boost economic recovery.
in writing. the proposal proposes to regulate the taxation of income of companies and groups of companies operating in more than one eu member state. to this end, it proposes a fixed allocation formula which will not affect the collectable but its allocation among the member states. this formula, which takes as factors the value of sales, the number of employees and the value of personnel costs and the value of fixed assets, is inaccurate because it abstracts from concrete factors which may be of considerable importance. on the other hand, consideration of the wage bill or the value of labour also has the harmful consequence of disproportionately distributing profits to the countries where labour is more expensive. the commission notes that the tax system is based on the taxation of profits, which is not the same as the tax system of the group. the mcccis is optional, but it cannot be applied to smes, only to european companies and european cooperative societies, which creates a situation of advantage for multinationals.
in writing. − i welcome this report and highlight the great progress that the negotiations have made in the reshaping of green taxation, including the introduction of appropriate incentives and schemes for household and business consumers. another important item that was approved is that, in order to adapt to the new taxation of energy products, companies will have to implement the principles of this measure gradually, given the current economic and financial crisis in europe and the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity, as it proposes the gradual introduction of measures such as a co2 tax to adapt energy taxation systems to the eu's commitments to combat climate change, but provides for a transitional period for their introduction and incentives for businesses and households.
in writing. − finding the optimum balance between climate and environmental policy objectives and energy and industrial policy objectives is a complex exercise and, with rare exceptions, difficult to agree on. if we add a third objective to these two, namely an internal market based on the free movement of goods and services, the exercise underlying the calculation of taxation - based on the principle of equal treatment for energy consumers irrespective of the source of energy used - becomes extremely complex. however, the european union has made many efforts to find this balance. this directive therefore aims to find a new method of calculation, with the final taxation being based on two components: co2 emissions and general energy consumption taxation. an important point for portugal that this directive seeks to ensure is the safeguarding of the right of member states to apply a general level of taxation of energy consumption, which may go down to zero, to energy products and electricity used in agricultural, horticultural or poultry farming and forestry work. i would also like to congratulate my colleague on her work in such a sensitive area.
in writing. - this report, by astrid lulling, deals with a highly controversial subject. the proposal is a council directive amending council directive 2003/96/ec, which aims to restructure the community framework for energy products and electricity. over the last decade, european citizens have been confronted with continuous increases in the price of energy products, which have led to a substantial increase in the cost of factors of production and, consequently, to a rise in the cost of living. at a time when the global crisis is increasing unemployment, freezing wages and extending the retirement age, any measure that increases the price of these products can have very negative social effects. while i understand the need to move to a low-carbon economy to avoid climate change, this process has to be gradual and not suffocating for the economy and, above all, for people. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the energy taxation adopted in 2003 is outdated in the face of the new co2 reduction rules in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, but i cannot help but draw attention to the social problems arising from penalties for consumers.
in writing. - this proposal for a directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity provides that the part of the tax relating to energy consumption and the part of the tax relating to co2 emissions together form the tax on a given product. in addition, member states will be free to set their own rates, provided they are above the minimum rates set by the eu, and they will also be able to create their own tax structure, reproducing the relationship between the minimum levels of taxation for the different energy sources. in view of the perennial upward trend in the price of the various final energy sources, the energy taxation framework now proposed, in the context of the persistence of neoliberal policies in this sector, will not fail to penalise consumers in general and the least competitive countries, which already have serious competitive difficulties due to the costs of the factors of production related to their particular contexts. we cannot help but note it with concern. the environmental objectives must certainly be pursued and deepened, but in the context of a distinct economic and social formation, which puts the strategic sector under public control in the service of the general interest.
in writing. − the current energy taxation directive, adopted in 2003, aims to avoid distortions of competition in the energy sector in the internal market. the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer. minimum rates are established, mainly on the basis of the amount of energy consumed, for fuels, fuels and electricity. in addition to these minimum rates, member states are free to set their own national tax rates. this new proposal for a directive adapts the structure of energy taxation to support the objective of a low-carbon economy that is equally energy efficient and to avoid problems in the internal market. the proposal aims to make energy taxation consistent with the eu's commitments to combat climate change by introducing a co2 element. i am in favour of this new form of taxation because it will help to reduce co2 emissions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the lulling report on the taxation of energy and electricity for two fundamental reasons: a) because this legislation is going in the right direction towards fiscal harmonization in the union, which, as i have long argued, is a key element of the very idea of a single market without internal frontiers, which is not compatible with fiscal dumping to gain competitiveness. (b) because taxation of fuels and electricity is a crucial part of the efficient use of resources in which the union is highly deficient, as well as of the european policy of reducing co2 emissions and combating climate warming.
in writing. − the current energy taxation directive, adopted in 2003, was mainly intended to avoid distortions of competition in the energy sector in the internal market. the revised proposal for a directive adapts the structure of energy taxation to support the objective of a low-carbon economy that is equally energy efficient and to avoid problems in the internal market. the proposal aims to make energy taxation consistent with the eu's commitments to combat climate change by introducing a co2 element. i voted in favour of the report because i think that a balanced text has been achieved, taking account of the many variables in the energy sector and their impact on the economy.
in writing. − the current energy taxation directive, adopted in 2003, was mainly intended to avoid distortions of competition in the internal market in the energy sector by establishing common rules for the products subject to taxation, the timing of taxation and the exemptions allowed. however, the revised proposal for a directive adapts the structure of energy taxation to support the objective of a low-carbon economy that is equally energy efficient and can avoid problems in the internal market. the proposal aims to make energy taxation consistent with the eu's commitments to combat climate change by introducing a co2 element. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be of great importance for the implementation of the european 20-20-20 strategy for reducing greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. − the european commission has put forward a proposal to restructure the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, with the aim of aligning the directive more closely with the european union's energy and climate change objectives. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the taxation of energy in the union must take account of environmental policy as well as the objectives of energy policy and industrial policy, in order to help create a common strategy that will enhance the internal market and make it more efficient. it should be noted that the implementation of the new tax structure should not entail an increase in the tax rate on diesel in order to align the price with that of petrol, allowing the automotive industry to continue to focus on the production of cleaner, energy efficient and co2-reducing combustion engines. finally, the primary objective of energy taxation is to encourage consumers to use energy more efficiently and from cleaner sources, and to ensure a natural process of adaptation of the industry that will be in place by 2025.
in writing. − with this directive, the part of the tax relating to co2 emissions and the part of the tax relating to energy consumption will together form the tax on a given product. in addition, member states will be free to set their own rates, provided they are above the minimum rates set by the eu, and may also create their own tax structure, reproducing the relationship between the minimum levels of taxation for different energy sources. this voluntary narrowing of european policy on climate and environmental issues to the detriment of energy and industrial issues will have a very strong negative impact on consumers. at a time when the prices of the various end-use energy sources have been showing a perennial upward trend and the introduction of renewable energy is not relevant, it is worrying that, in the context of climate concerns, it is proposed to introduce an energy tax framework which will continue to penalise consumers in general and countries with less competitive economies, which already have serious competitive difficulties due to the costs of production factors related to their particular contexts. despite the positive reasons put forward by the rapporteur, the final product of the report remains negative for what would be the desirable development of europe.
in writing. - i welcome this report, which is of the utmost importance for the establishment of justice between member states, for internal cohesion in the european union and for making an important contribution to social cohesion. we in the s&d group have shown in a study that about a trillion euros of potential tax revenue is lost every year because of tax evasion. we have to fight this scenario. it is also important to focus on the objective of contributing to the necessary stabilisation of financial markets and the economy as a whole by significantly reducing the liquidity available for financial exchanges unrelated to economic activity, increasing public revenue to accelerate the necessary fiscal consolidation and, at the same time, reducing the climate of austerity that the right across europe has imposed on its citizens. for all these reasons, i would stress once again the importance of the action plan proposed by the s&ds.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on concrete means of combating tax fraud and tax evasion, because i believe it is necessary to make the eu's tax systems more effective, transparent and harmonised in order to combat tax fraud and evasion and put an end to tax havens.
in writing. − at present, several, if not all, member states are making a major effort to consolidate their budgets and rebalance their public accounts. inevitably, such efforts need a fiscal policy geared to increasing revenue and reducing public expenditure, while ideally trying to find, through fiscal policy, measures to attract investment from firms and job creators. however, member states have encountered a number of obstacles in pursuing this objective, with tax fraud and evasion having increased considerably in recent years. it is therefore essential to adopt a number of measures which can effectively combat tax fraud and tax evasion simultaneously. it is essential that member states make their tax systems more effective and adopt measures of cooperation with each other, and that the commission should study ways of minimising the situation and negotiate on behalf of the union bilateral agreements with third countries in tax matters.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis is forcing member states (ms) to seek to increase revenue in such a way as to penalise, at least, the purchasing power of taxpayers. among the various measures adopted is the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. we all know that if those who do not pay their taxes start paying, we all pay less. the flight of companies to tax havens, especially from countries involved in financial assistance programmes and which had to eliminate privileges in accordance with the troika proposals, the lack of cooperation and financial collaboration between member states and the gaps in the european union (eu) legislation on taxation contribute to the creation of a climate of lack of tax confidence that undermines economic development and, consequently, growth and job creation. i welcome the implementation of new strategies in this fight and the strengthening of controls on capital flight to tax havens. a fairer europe means an end to the underdeveloped economy. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i am aware of the significant loss of revenue for the eu member states that tax fraud and tax evasion represent.
in writing. - among some generally positive proposals and recommendations on the fight against fraud and tax evasion, the resolution contains fallacious remarks of an unusual, almost propagandistic, nature on the imf-eu programmes under way in portugal, greece and ireland. if we look at what is happening in portugal, to say that privileges have been eliminated on the proposal of the troika is not only offensive but also a disgraceful alignment with the rhetoric that has been used to justify intolerable social terrorism, while keeping intact the privileges, which are very real, of the sectors that benefit from this intervention, such as banking, which, shamefully saved in tax terms, will pocket at least 12 billion euros on the account of this programme. the imf-ecb-ecb rhetoric continues to eliminate unjustified exemptions. but the most striking aspect of this resolution is that it fails blatantly on one essential point: tax havens. instead of calling into question, as was necessary, the existence of these cesspools of resources, where millions and millions of euros are being wasted, which should be destined for the coffers of the states - these authentic havens for economic crime - the resolution ends up timidly advocating only that the use of tax havens be prevented. this is unacceptable.
in writing. - it is widely accepted that tax fraud and evasion represent a significant loss of revenue for eu member state governments. this implies an increase in the deficit and debt levels of member states and a reduction in the funds available to promote public investment, growth and employment. on the other hand, tax fraud and evasion undermine citizens' confidence in the fairness and legitimacy of tax collection. it is therefore necessary to considerably strengthen the information available to the public on tax fraud and tax evasion in each member state. we must therefore make every effort to avoid the continuation of practices which harm everyone.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on combating tax fraud and tax evasion because it deals with one of the scourges - along with tax havens - that most affects the tax capacity of states. as a recent study commissioned by the socialist group in the european parliament has confirmed, the size of the tax gap (i.e. the difference between the amount of tax payable and the amount actually collected) is overwhelming in most eu countries. if we want to safeguard the ability of the member states to finance public tasks, including the welfare state, especially in a period of budgetary discipline and consolidation, we cannot afford such levels of fiscal waste. and it is clear that this cannot be achieved at the national level alone.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution of 19 april 2012 on concrete means of combating european tax fraud and tax evasion. i do so because i believe that increasing transparency and strengthening controls to prevent the use of tax havens is the way to combat fraud and evasion.
in writing. − tax fraud and evasion, besides representing a significant loss of revenue for eu member state governments, undermine citizens' confidence in the fairness and legitimacy of tax collection. the report calls on the member states and the eu itself to implement concrete measures to reverse the situation quickly. measures such as strengthening regulation of company registers and the register of trust companies, identifying areas where improvements can be made in eu legislation and administrative cooperation between member states, as well as increasing transparency and strengthening controls to prevent recourse to tax havens deserve my full support. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i consider it necessary to call on the member states to review their tax systems in order to make them more effective, in particular by removing unjustified exemptions, broadening the tax base, improving the efficiency of taxation and combating tax evasion. i support the european parliament's initiative to stress the importance of continuing the review of the directive on taxation of savings income and to stress the essential nature of the coordination of the tax systems of the various member states, which also involves better cooperation between them.
in writing. the resolution outlines some positive proposals in the field of combating tax evasion. however, to say that more control should be exercised to prevent the use of tax havens is an empty statement which does not call into question the existence of tax havens. what is needed is the urgent elimination of tax havens, territories which have seen in recent years, and somewhat worldwide, a growing trend in financial transactions. the network of tax havens must be dismantled and dismantled by preventing, sanctioning and taxing these financial transactions. we also reject the view that bilateral agreements concluded by member states must be authorised by the european commission. we also reject the introduction of the mcccis, which will tax companies according to the result of applying the factors designated to the group profit, which may not coincide and, in most cases, will not coincide with the actual profit of the company. we argue that a company which receives income from abroad, provided that it is actually managed from a member state, should be taxed according to the rules of that member state, which safeguards the sovereignty of countries in taxation.
author. - madam president, commissioner malmström, ladies and gentlemen, regulation 2252 adopted in 2004 was an important step towards improving and harmonising the rules on the protection of passports and travel documents. we introduced biometric identification elements to establish a more reliable link between the document and its true owner. but the security of passports is not limited to the passport itself, the whole process is relevant, it starts with the presentation of the documents necessary for the issuance of passports, what are technically called the breeder documents, followed by the collection of biometric data and ends with the verification and matching at border control posts. there is little point in increasing the level of security in passports if we allow weak points in the other elements of the chain. this is the case, for example, of the recently published news that some 10% of biometric passports circulating in france are fake, having been obtained on the basis of forged documents, or of a study presented during a hearing in the dutch parliament, which revealed that the results of a test carried out by a local government prove that more than 20% of the fingerprints collected could not be verified, thus revealing their uselessness. freedom of movement in the schengen area is undoubtedly one of the greatest achievements of the european construction, but it requires a high level of security. the existence of secure passports and documents that function effectively and efficiently contributes to this. it is therefore imperative to find solutions to the problems that may exist, first, in the reliability of the biometric data collection process, second, in the reliability and usefulness of fingerprints according to age groups, in particular for children and the elderly, third, in the disparities between member states in the documents that may serve as the basis for the issuance of passports, breeder documents and fourth, in the way fingerprints are matched. the commissioner knows that the council was responsible for sending a questionnaire to the member states to enable an analysis to be made of possible failures in the identification systems and of the error rates recorded, in order to assess the need to introduce a european system. these concerns were present in the review of the regulation that we did in 2008 and for that reason parliament introduced a three-year review clause in order to allow the necessary studies to be done by the commission and to receive the results of that questionnaire. the question i have to ask, commissioner, is whether the commission has the results to present to us and whether, in view of them, it is planning to present any legislative proposal that might be necessary.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the agricultural sector is not left to the detriment of the environment. we want to preserve biodiversity, we want to prevent forest fires, we want better water management and better soil protection. it is not, therefore, the concept of this kind of support that we are discussing here today, what we are discussing here today is of a very practical nature. we members who are currently responsible for drawing up reports on the reform of the cap will have to decide, we will have to legislate without having the slightest information on the real impact of the application of the new criteria on the territory. at this point the council should have informed us, the member states should have made available all the information on the real impact of these new criteria in each of the member states, and so the question i would like to leave to the council is whether it is in a position to provide this information and, if so, when? and i would remind you that in a month's time the rapporteurs will be submitting their work for translation, and therefore if this information is not available it is practically impossible, it is even impossible, to legislate responsibly. so, since the responsibility for this matter lies with the member states, i would very much like the council to tell us in a very clear and very concrete way whether and when it will be in a position to provide us with this information which is essential for our work as co-legislators.
the commission has long proposed to review the delimitation of lessfavoured areas on the basis of biophysical criteria alone, but to date no information has been made available on the process under way, which is particularly important when parliament is discussing the future cap. the identification of less-favoured areas is absolutely essential to the achievement of the european model of agriculture that the cap represents, since it establishes aid levels based on positive discrimination in order to make agricultural production viable and to promote it throughout the union. this also ensures the vitality of rural areas and prevents abandonment and depopulation of land. at the same time, the assessment of less-favoured areas, to be carried out on the basis of simulations carried out by the member states, should be very detailed, taking into account the high level of subsidiarity in the definition of criteria which may not only be biophysical but also have socioeconomic implications, considering limits of values adjusted to the characteristics of each member state and respecting the specificities of its regions. the criteria established should also consider the possibility of cumulative biophysical parameters, combining physical (soil, climate), geographical (isolation, distance), production, proportion of pastures, density of animals, etc. unfortunately, the commission proposal shows a complete absence of reference to geographical disadvantages such as isolation, the dispersion of farms, distance from the centres of consumption, distance from the centres of decision-making and services, aspects which are very relevant for a country like portugal, which has a continental territory in the far west of europe and two outermost regions in the middle of the atlantic ocean, such as the azores and madeira.
as you know, as the author of this question i have two minutes, so i ask you how much time i have for this speech. i would like to begin by making a reference which will help to frame this debate. the requalification of disadvantaged areas proposed in 2005, by excluding socioeconomic criteria, harms some of the poorest regions in the european union. small and mediumsized farms and family farming are obviously hit even harder. the european commission insists in various ways on denying them the role they need to play in the future of agriculture in europe. the concept of a disadvantaged area has been overturned. the current definition ignores a whole dimension, in addition to the biophysical dimension, which cannot be ignored, the socioeconomic dimension, otherwise the inequalities and injustices in the distribution of cap funds between countries and between producers will worsen and it would therefore be necessary not only to maintain but also to broaden and diversify the socioeconomic criteria, for example, in terms of indicators of desertification and rural exodus, among others. as regards the biophysical criteria, the commission has given a panel of experts the task of defining them, but has failed to include in this role, as required, representatives of the various member states, as it acknowledged in a question i addressed to it in 2010. no portuguese expert or institution was included in this panel, as were the overwhelming majority of member states. the dangers are obvious. in view of the diversity of situations, the complexity of the task of defining uniform criteria may once again result in the benefit of some to the detriment of others. there is one essential question in this reform of the cap which remains unanswered, namely the need to ensure a fair distribution of the cap funds which guarantees each country its right to produce and its right to food sovereignty.
this is a debate of great importance and timeliness. the current agricultural and trade policies have promoted export-oriented intensive production models, while at the same time devastating local production and small and mediumsized farming in numerous countries. these models are unsustainable and irrational, whether from an environmental, economic or social point of view. they have reduced the diversity of food, increased the food dependence of many countries and contributed to the desertification of vast rural areas. the promotion of local production and consumption by encouraging short supply chains and reducing energy flows associated with food production and distribution is thus a pressing need. small and mediumsized farmers play a very important role in this context, which should be recognized and valued. all this requires a fundamental change in the current cap and its market orientation. it calls for the withdrawal of agriculture from the wto, it calls for an agricultural policy which recognizes the right and the importance of each country and each region to produce according to its possibilities and taking into account its potential.
the definition of what is locally produced and, above all, the requirement that products are actually marketed as such can be important for producers and consumers. for producers because it stimulates production by ensuring that it is sold at a more profitable price. for consumers because they have access to fresher products whose origin and production methods they know better. it is also about boosting the economy and rural life with benefits for all european citizens. protect and value local products, but don't complicate or bureaucratize it because otherwise we'll kill you.
mr president, the effectiveness of development aid is a matter of the utmost importance and there are issues that go far beyond the aspects of management, decentralized or not, for the commission delegations, as the rapporteur has also mentioned. the question of the necessary coherence between the sectoral policies of the european union and the declared objectives in the field of development aid. the question of the much needed appropriation of aid, which requires a large involvement of the country, its authorities, institutions and social organisations in the design and implementation of policies. in this area, the european union must genuinely support and not dictate, it must empower and not impose, it must respect the specificities, the options, the sovereign will of the developing countries, it must not lose sight of the importance of south-south cooperation which must be encouraged. development aid should promote the full development and full exploitation of the endogenous potential of developing countries and not perpetuate their dependence which means that a substantial part of aid today is returned to the countries of origin, for example in the form of the purchase of goods and services, among other forms.
in portugal, the so-called bologna process and, in a broader sense, the modernisation of the higher education system, had disastrous aspects. instead of widespread student mobility, what has happened is an elitisation of higher education by dividing it into two cycles, which has increased the costs of higher education for most students. today, there are students who drop out of universities because they have no money to pay for tuition, to pay for their housing, or for all the other costs associated with being in higher education. for these students, the modernization of the higher education system is just a mirage.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on her report. mrs kiil-nielsen has made an interesting and well-structured report. good cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs has enabled a broad consensus to be reached. the effects of climate change are not gender neutral. climate change does not equally affect men and women, rich and poor, developed and developing countries. the effects of climate change are greatest in the poorest regions and can exacerbate social inequalities. women are victims of multiple discrimination. they are particularly affected by poverty. 70% of the poor are women and they are also more vulnerable to the impacts of climate change and natural disasters. the elimination of inequalities and the fight against climate change are linked. there will be no climate justice without true gender equality. natural disasters have a significant impact in the medium and long term in terms of education, health, structural poverty and displacement of populations. children and the elderly are particularly vulnerable to the effects of natural disasters. where more disasters occur, the schooling rate is lower, droughts and water shortages due to climate change force women to work harder to secure water, food and energy, and often girls drop out of school to help their mothers with these tasks. measures are therefore needed to integrate the gender dimension into natural disaster risk prevention and management strategies. on the other hand, women are accustomed to managing natural resources, which gives them a potential that should not be neglected in the upgrading of climate change mitigation and adaptation strategies.
on behalf of the s&d group. madam president, i would first like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his report, on the good work he has done, and to reiterate that only with ambition, political will and adequate funding can we meet the objectives of the biodiversity strategy 2020. the protection of biodiversity must be integrated into all eu policies, in particular in the context of the current reforms of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy. the next financial framework must provide the resources needed to finance the strategy. this funding will be offset from an environmental and economic point of view, as the cost of biodiversity loss could reach 7% of gdp by 2050. the benefits associated with the natura 2000 network are estimated to be around eur 200-300 billion per year, in addition to creating millions of jobs. the commission and the member states should make available sufficient resources to finance the natura 2000 network and should also ensure the implementation of european legislation, in particular the birds directive and the habitats directive, as well as the marine strategy framework directive. equally important are the initiatives to be developed in relation to green infrastructure and genetic resources, as well as legislation on invasive alien species, whose proposals we look forward to from the commission. the objectives of the biodiversity strategy require concrete, integrated and ambitious actions, and adequate funding is also needed. it should be borne in mind that biodiversity encompasses all interactions of the living world, species and ecosystems, in direct connection with human activity, food, clothing, health care, heating of buildings depend on biodiversity. biodiversity is the guarantee of life.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in 2001, the european commission set itself the objective of halting biodiversity loss by 2010. ten years later, it recognized that this goal has not been achieved and that global biodiversity is also under serious threat. the biodiversity strategy to 2020 is now being discussed. once again, goals and objectives are set. some questions therefore arise: have the lessons of past failures been learned? in 10 years, won't we be seeing another failure? what has been done to correct the course? what does success or failure depend on in this case? a strategy is made up of short, medium and long-term objectives, and it is also made up of the means to achieve these objectives. this strategy has shortcomings in one and another area, for example: on the one hand, there are still shortcomings in the funding, as in the next multiannual financial framework, and in the mechanisms for monitoring and correcting the implementation of the strategy. on the other hand, some of the sectoral policies with the most relevant effects on biodiversity remain essentially unchanged. this is the case with agricultural and trade policies, which promote intensive production models geared to exports, deregulation and trade liberalisation, and the weakening of local production and consumption. it is not enough to give these policies a greener look, keeping their fundamentals unchanged, keeping their so-called market orientation unchanged. the commission is enthusiastic about the business and biodiversity approach. we are afraid that we are dealing with a business-as-usual strategy in biodiversity.
in writing. − i welcome this report as iter funding does not call into question other research programmes originally proposed by the european commission and the council, but i would stress the importance of the role of the european parliament in ensuring that iter funding is not at the expense of other policies needed to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − this draft amending budget aims to enter in the 2012 budget an amount of eur 650 million in appropriations for the iter project. they fully agree with the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council in december 2011 to take account of the additional cost of eur 1300 million of the iter project (2012-2013).
in writing. the report under consideration, presented by my colleague francesca balzani, concerns draft amending budget no 1/2012 of the eu for the financial year 2012, section iii commission, in relation to the financing of the iter (international thermonuclear experimental reactor) programme. iter is a unique scientific programme in the world on fusion energy, also known as star energy, involving the world's leading nuclear experts, and which may be the future energy solution. it was initiated in 1995 by a future energy commitment between the presidents of the united states of america and the soviet union, ronald reagan and gorbachev. the european union (eu) has been one of its main drivers since its launch. during the debate on the 2012 eu budget, given the importance of the programme in question, the issue of its under-financing was raised and the commission left the guarantee of its resolution. i therefore welcome the presentation of this report, which substantiates the council's position on this draft amending budget, and i welcome the agreement reached between the three european institutions which has made it possible to overcome this problem. however, it is necessary to provide for its future financing.
in writing. − this amending budget follows the amendment of the interinstitutional agreement of 16 may 2006, in particular the multiannual financial framework (mff), to which an amount of eur 1.3 billion has been added for the iter project. following the agreement between the three institutions to finance the additional cost of €1.3 billion in commitment appropriations for the iter project in 2012-13. of this amount, eur 100 million would have already been entered in budget lines in 2012, eur 360 million will be made available during 2013, the ceilings for commitment appropriations under the competitiveness for growth and jobs heading for 2012 and 2013 will be increased by eur 840 million. the ceiling for payment appropriations in 2013 will be increased by 580 million. we reaffirm that, despite the controversy surrounding this project, we consider it important that energy research can continue to improve and overcome the risks and limitations of the forms of energy currently available, considering the multiplicity of options and giving priority to renewable sources. that said, we also do not ignore some of the legitimate and weighty concerns about the overall costs of the iter project.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this amending budget. the commission proposal aims to secure the funds needed for the iter project without having to ask for new contributions from the member states, which means that there is no change to the budget. this will provide the additional eur 1.3 billion needed for iter in 2012 and 2013. iter is a long-term investment in the energy security of europe and the world order. it is a very important project and requires heavy investment. that is why we need this budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the council position on draft amending budget no 1/2012 of the european union for the financial year 2012, as the council's position follows the agreement reached between the three institutions (commission, council and parliament) to finance the additional cost of €1.3 billion (in commitment appropriations) of the iter - fusion for energy (f4e) project in 2012-13. iter is an international research project that has the particularity of breaking with tradition by bringing together geographically dispersed multicultural teams to coordinate a technically challenging fusion-for-energy project.
in writing. − on 1 december 2011, the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012 was adopted and financial adjustments were necessary to boost the activity of european entities in some specific areas of activity. this is the case with this motion for a resolution which aims to enter in the 2012 budget an additional amount of eur 650 million to finance the iter fusion for energy (f4e) project. i am voting in favour of this report which aims to increase the overall value of the iter project to eur 1.3 billion, giving it greater financial sustainability to invest in the area of energy production.
in writing. − this amending budget follows the amendment of the interinstitutional agreement of 16 may 2006, in particular on the multiannual financial framework (mff), to which it added an amount of eur 1.3 billion for the iter project. some important points to be highlighted in the agreement between the three institutions are the financing of the additional cost of eur 1300 million in commitment appropriations for the iter project in 2012-2013. of this amount, eur 360 million will be made available during 2013, and the ceilings for commitment appropriations under the competitiveness for growth and jobs heading for 2012 and 2013 will be increased by eur 840 million. we consider it important that energy research can continue to improve and overcome the risks and limitations of the forms of energy currently available. however, the overall costs of the iter project raise some concerns.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering it essential to propose an initiative which, on the one hand, proposes a quality framework for higher education and, on the other, a rapid harmonisation of qualification systems at european level, so that there is a real european area of education and research and so that conditions are promoted so that the new generations are in a position to integrate professionally not only into national labour markets but also into the european labour market. in view of the economic crisis which is responsible for unprecedented high levels of youth unemployment in europe, our s&d group proposal to support the creation of higher education entry mechanisms for citizens who have completed secondary education but have not continued their studies, and on the other hand to create a quality framework for traineeships and the use of the structural funds to support students' entry into the labour market, is also welcome. in short, the modernisation of higher education must ensure that people of all ages and social backgrounds can have the opportunity to attend higher education so that the focus on knowledge can serve the challenges facing europe in the 21st century.
in writing. − in a post-crisis europe, recovering and growing, the importance of higher education and vocational training plays a crucial role. it is imperative to give young europeans the tools they need to compete in a globalised world and to enter the labour market through their knowledge and skills. (we must not forget that, all over europe, the figures for youth unemployment are staggering.) but we must not ignore the fact that more training often does not equal more opportunities on the labour market. the eu is seeing a growing number of young graduates who, with full training and postgraduate training, have no job and no prospect of getting one. training must be geared to market needs and must prepare young workers. this paradigm shift and the modernisation of systems to bring them closer to the labour market will, in my view, be fundamental to halting the growth of unemployment among young people and to guarantee them a future with more possibilities.
in writing. - the future of a country lies in its youth. the more competent and better prepared the new generations are, the better their future will be. the report on the modernisation of higher education systems in europe by lászló tőkés is of great importance not only for the countries of the former iron curtain but also for the other member states. for the former, because it is an opportunity to continue democratic reforms, to combat past crises and to modernise their education system; for the latter, because it is an opportunity to help overcome the current crisis by boosting economic growth and promoting skilled youth employment. it is true that the bologna reform, with its division into two cycles, has brought an increase in costs and not everyone is able to complete their courses. in addition, and unfortunately, the economic and financial crisis, especially in the member states with financial assistance programmes, has forced cuts in education budgets. it is therefore essential to work with the social partners to ensure that disadvantaged people have the opportunity to learn. only in this way will we contribute to the pursuit of the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - as many have warned, the bologna process and the so-called harmonisation of the european higher education system served the purpose of attacking the right to education and the social role of the states in this field, which is enshrined in the constitution of the portuguese republic. the consequences are now visible in many countries, such as portugal, where there is a sharp rise in the cost of attending higher education, especially (but not only) in the now-designated second cycle. there is a notorious elitisation of higher education. what has happened is the distinction between those who can or cannot access higher education, but also between those who can or cannot attend the second cycle, which has enormous tuition costs. countless news reports have noted that every day thousands and more students are dropping out of higher education because of lack of financial resources. the commercialisation of higher education was bologna's primary objective. this is the fundamental objective of a certain modernization that many have been calling for. the same applies to this report.
in writing. − europe has some 19 million students and over 4 000 higher education institutions, but although 35% of all jobs in the eu will require highly qualified workers by 2020, only 26% of the workforce currently has high-level qualifications. the responsibility for higher education remains primarily with the member states and the higher education institutions themselves. eu actions (such as erasmus study abroad grants) complement and coordinate member states' efforts. the european higher education area and the european research area form the framework for eu higher education policy. given the challenges facing european societies, it is crucial that higher education institutions continue to be adequately funded, even as societies are dealing with the current economic crisis. in order to meet future skills requirements, more people will need to complete higher education and workers will need to update their knowledge and skills continuously while remaining active in the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a policy of improving european higher education and placing eu educational institutions among the best in the world is a policy of economic growth. the percentage of highly skilled workers is currently below the 2020 targets, and all efforts to achieve this are essential. it is essential that higher education institutions continue to be adequately funded, even in the current economic crisis. the quality of education is a central aspect in widening access to higher education, which is why the rapporteur's intention to include this factor in the related rankings of educational institutions seems pertinent.
in writing. − the eu has only 75 higher education institutions among the top 200 universities worldwide and only 26% of the workforce has a qualified degree. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to strengthen the role of higher education institutions as a key driver of the development of countries. the entities of the science and technology system should increasingly focus on the development of activities of scientific excellence, stimulate entrepreneurship, adapt academic training to the labour market and enhance programmes that allow for increased international mobility during the period of study or work. i also believe that it is urgent to define a european system for the mutual recognition of qualifications acquired. finally, i believe that there should be greater equality of opportunity in young people's access to quality education and training, and it is crucial that member states consider education as the main investment in the future of their nations. in this regard, i advocate that higher education expenditure on investments in university infrastructure and people be included in the eu budget for the period 2014-2020 in order to achieve the investment target of 3% of gdp.
in writing. − this report highlights the process of harmonising the higher education system in the eu, even recommending that this process be further developed, particularly in terms of the standardisation of educational content to meet the needs of the labour market. the reinforcement of the european higher education area and the bologna process is advocated on the grounds that this facilitates student mobility between eu higher education institutions. but what happened in portugal with the implementation of the bologna process? nothing less than the elitisation of higher education, the distinction between those who can or cannot access higher education, but also between those who can or cannot attend the second cycle, which has enormous tuition costs. today, in portugal, there are numerous cases and testimonies of students who abandon higher education for lack of financial resources. for these students, expressions such as modernisation of the higher education system are only rhetorical concepts with no practical application. we will continue to fight for a free, quality public education for all. we have voted against this report.
in writing. − i support this report because i believe that today eu citizens and businesses, especially smes, still often face insurmountable barriers when carrying out crossborder activities in the eu, when they should be able to benefit particularly from online public administration, as it entails reduced administrative costs and burdens, increases productivity, efficiency, competitiveness, transparency, openness, policy effectiveness, accessibility and streamlining of procedures. it should also facilitate the creation of synergies and the sharing of resources and skills between companies, thus enabling a more collaborative business environment for smes. national and european authorities also need to promote the innovative use of public sector information through academia, including students, and the general public, as well as for research and business development, thus enhancing transparency.
in writing. − the existence of a competitive digital single market is becoming more important and more inescapable in our society. technological developments, especially in terms of the provision of information, content and knowledge on the net, have been extremely rapid and, in just over a decade, have dramatically changed the digital landscape with the massification of the internet and mobile communications. it is therefore important to look to the future and to think about how these new facilities of the digital age can be put at the service of citizens and businesses, by modernising administrations and bringing them closer to those who are administered.
in writing. − one of the pillars of the europe 2020 strategy, namely smart growth, is based on the so-called digital agenda. according to the report by colleague silvia-adriana ţicău on a competitive digital single market with online public administration as a driving force, the implementation of an interoperability strategy will not only improve communications between member states but also bring about cost savings that are essential for the recovery of economies. in this process of digital modernisation, public administration plays an important role as a driver for achieving the objectives. there are, however, some problems that need to be solved, such as the absence of ultra-fast broadband throughout the eu. this is a sector with great potential, representing some 5% of gdp, which must be freed from all obstacles. i voted in favour of this report and hope that the measures it advocates, such as electronic invoicing, digital signatures, mutual recognition, online contracting and the renewal of infrastructure, will be implemented quickly in order to make life easier for businesses and to make the public service more efficient and citizen-friendly.
in writing. the report focuses on the digital single market, which aims to be competitive, without barriers and without distortions of competition. it also addresses the issue of the implementation of online public administration. the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for adoption. we believe that advances in science and technology, such as new technological platforms, associated with the internet, can open up possibilities for social and civilizational advancement. when introduced into public administration services, they can help to make them more efficient, improve the comfort and well-being of citizens and workers in those services, while opening up prospects for diversification, improvement and expansion of public services themselves. we must not forget, however, that the current context is marked by various attacks on public administration and the social functions of the state. and in this context, the introduction of new technologies has sometimes been used as a pretext to reduce costs and functions, without any improvements for citizens or public officials, quite the contrary.
in writing. − the adoption of the eu 2020 strategy in 2010 sought to create smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by improving economic governance. one of the flagship initiatives of the eu's growth strategy is the digital agenda for europe, a strategy that seeks to harness the potential offered by the rapid advancement of digital technologies. e-government is the use of tools and systems provided by information and communication technologies (ict) to deliver better public services to citizens and businesses. in most member states, the development of online public administration is considered to be based on the one hand on bureaucracy, the network of interconnectivity between public administrations, and on the other hand on the development of the right digital content and applications. the application of ict in public administration is very important for the provision of a better service to all citizens, hence my vote in favour.
in writing. − the eu 2020 strategy was adopted with the aim of creating smart, sustainable and inclusive growth by improving economic governance. one of the 7 flagship initiatives of the eu's growth strategy is the digital agenda for europe, a strategy that seeks to harness the potential offered by the rapid advancement of digital technologies. i voted in favour of the view that the project for the development of online public administration by the european union is a sign of union and effective development, while ensuring that it is based on cooperation between public administrations, in full respect of the principles underlying european public services.
in writing. − the european commission has defined the seven action lines of the europe 2020 strategy, one of which is the digital agenda for europe, which aims to extract sustainable economic and social benefits from a digital single market, based on fast and ultra-fast internet and interoperable applications. after drawing up a number of strategy papers and opinions submitted by various european bodies, the european parliament decided to give its opinion on the importance of public administration in the implementation and development of the digital single market. i support this report because i believe that it is necessary to define an action plan for online public administration, to promote the adoption of public procurement and to implement the e-invoicing initiative. i also think that the importance of the telecommunications sector for the european union's industrial policy, the digital single market and research and innovation activities should be stressed. however, i believe that special attention should be paid to the specific features of the outermost regions and that a programme should be set up in the area of transport, energy and telecommunications, similar to posei for agriculture and fisheries.
in writing. - this report advocates, on the one hand, the creation of a competitive digital single market, i.e. without barriers and distortions of competition, and, on the other hand, states as its objective a greater implementation of online public administration, while reducing the cost of public services in exchange for greater efficiency and competitiveness, in particular for the digital single market, but also saving public resources. the question of the single market, whether digital or not, retains the same principles, objectives and interests as the single market, which is responsible for the dismantling of national productions, the destruction of jobs, the increase in external dependence and the imbalance in the trade balance, which results in the constant deficits and the weakening of the economies of the most vulnerable countries. we recognize, however, that new technological advances, such as the internet, are an important tool and asset to society, as are the conveniences and efficiencies they can bring when applied to public administration services, while complementing the existence of normal departments and their staff. we cannot, however, accept that the pretext of using this tool is to continue to pave the way for the weakening of public services, allowing and encouraging privatisations, brutal attacks on the jobs, rights and wages of public administration workers.
in writing. - i approve this report, expressing my deep concern at the intensification of the terrorist threat in northern mali due to the presence of members of al-qaeda in the islamic maghreb and extremist elements among the rebels. i therefore condemn the acts of violence and looting which have been inflicted on the staff of humanitarian organisations and the kidnapping of algerian diplomatic staff in gao. i also condemn in particular the atrocities committed against the civilian population, which have been directed more against women than against any other victims, and i particularly condemn the use of kidnapping and rape as a weapon of war. it is urgent that an investigation be made into the atrocities committed in mali in recent months. the eu and its member states need to pay particular attention to the situation of women and girls in the sahel region and take all necessary measures to ensure their protection from all forms of violence and violation of human rights. if the european union wishes to be a global player, it must assert itself in the defence of human rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i condemn the military coup in mali and the consequent suspension of its republican institutions. the report condemns all the violence and atrocities committed in recent years and calls for the immediate release of the people who are being arbitrarily detained by the military responsible for the coup.
in writing. - unfortunately, recent news from the african continent has noted an increase in instability in some countries, which has resulted in coups d'état and the overthrow of the legitimately elected institutions of the respective countries. guinea-bissau, a country with which my country shares a history and a language, was also recently subjected to a similar disruption of the constitutional order. i welcome parliament's unequivocal condemnation of violence as a means of gaining political power, i hope that the international community will support the stabilization of these countries and i hope that they will see their institutions restored as a matter of urgency.
in writing. the situation in mali is dramatic following the military coup which overthrew the government and which was condemned by the organisation of african unity. the economic and social crisis and poverty that the country was going through were aggravated by this military action. an estimated 250,000 people have been displaced and 140,000 have fled mali. the humanitarian situation is very complicated and the intervention of non-governmental organizations in food and medical aid is urgent. the european union, which since its foundation has been seen as a bulwark in the defence of human rights as defined by the united nations, has taken a strong lead in this process and has achieved an agreement for a return to normalcy - which is not easy - by supporting the appointment of a provisional government until elections are held. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because violence is violence everywhere and we cannot allow human rights to be disrespected. i therefore urge the eu to continue its foreign policy of supporting the establishment of democratic regimes and call for increased humanitarian aid to minimize the suffering of the people of mali.
in writing. - when nato launched its military aggression against libya, we warned that it would have very serious consequences for its people - as we see today: a situation marked by social decline, instability and conflict. but we also warned that the consequences could potentially spread to the whole of the north african region. weapons and military equipment have arrived in northern mali following the military aggression of france, britain, the us and nato in libya, further inflaming the tense internal situation. the occurrence of this coup d'état is in addition to other situations of great instability in the sahel and west africa, a region rich in natural resources, particularly energy, which is causing various greed. it is important to seek a peaceful, political, negotiated solution to this conflict. respecting the sovereignty and territorial integrity of the country. this resolution leaves the door open to possible european military intervention in the context of the esdp. if it comes to fruition, this will only add further factors of instability and the danger of new conflicts to those already existing, as previous interventions of the same type, in particular on the african continent, have confirmed.
in writing. - the eu cannot remain indifferent to what has happened in mali, as violence and the seizure of power by force are not in the eu's dna. the eu stands for democratic processes that do not violate the most basic human rights. we must therefore strongly condemn the events in mali and call on all parties to ensure that normalcy is restored quickly in the country and that the people's representatives are democratically re-elected to the institutions of mali.
in writing. − i join the european parliament's call for the european commission to step up its action on behalf of the people of the region, helping them to have better access to water, public education, health services and better infrastructure, and to improve access to the region.
in writing. the european union condemned the coup d'état in mali. on 22 march, army officers said they had kidnapped the president so that the government authorities could support the army by increasing its armaments to ensure the defence of the north of the country against the tuareg occupation. to do this, they declared the abrogation of the constitution and the dissolution of all state institutions. this development in the west african region is exacerbating existing problems, creating a humanitarian crisis at the borders, due to the high number of displaced persons and refugees fleeing to the border countries, namely mauritania, algeria and burkina faso. the union, once an agreement is reached on an interim government that prepares the country for the next elections, should coordinate its actions with the interim authorities. political declarations must be combined with concrete actions, coordinated with the cplp, ecowas and the un. the eu's role will be essential to initiate a future peace proposal and restore stability and the democratic process.
in writing. - as we warned at the time, aggression against libya would have very serious consequences not only for its people - who are facing social backwardness, instability and conflict - but also for the whole region. weapons and military equipment have arrived in northern mali following the military aggression of france, britain, the us and nato in libya, further inflaming the tense internal situation. the occurrence of this coup d'état is in addition to other situations of great instability in the sahel and west africa, a region immensely rich in natural resources, particularly energy, which has aroused the interest and the neocolonial attempts of the european powers, the usa and nato. the european parliament's majority, instead of contributing to a peaceful solution, opts for intervention and support for european military intervention in the framework of the esdp, which, if it comes to fruition, will only add more factors of instability and danger of new conflicts to the existing ones, as previous interventions of the same type, in particular on the african continent, confirm. what is required is unconditional support for a peaceful political solution to the conflict in mali, without outside interference, safeguarding the sovereignty of the malian people and the territorial integrity of the country.
in writing. - i approve, because it draws attention to the fact that serious human rights concerns persist. hundreds of political prisoners remain in prison and many of those who are no longer in detention have been released on parole only. much caution is needed in addressing the situation in this country, as the government faces a legacy of decades of civil war and armed insurgency, which has resulted in a series of ceasefire agreements with most of the armed ethnic groups, while humanitarian aid to thousands of displaced civilians is blocked and the policy of discrimination against the rohingya minority remains unchanged. i think it is important to support your government, which has indicated that it is pursuing a three-stage peace process: first, a ceasefire; second, socioeconomic, cultural and political processes; and finally, a comprehensive agreement including constitutional amendments. in view of all this, it seems to me particularly relevant that the eu and the international community demand that the government of burma/myanmar also initiate legal reforms to ensure an independent and impartial judiciary and adopt a process in justice for accountability for past human rights violations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution, taking account of the outcome of the elections on 1 april, which were considered free by international observers. the resolution recognises all the efforts made by the burmese authorities to ensure that the process of democratic reforms is sustainable and irreversible. it also called on the government of burma/myanmar to release without delay and unconditionally all remaining political prisoners and to guarantee a free and independent media.
in writing. - the information coming from burma gives renewed hope to those who follow the plight of its people and who hope to see a free and just, democratic regime in the country, respecting human rights and civil liberties. at this time, it is right to recall the example and personal sacrifice of aung san suu kyi, who peacefully led her people and who will be asked to take on an equally leading and moderating role in the coming transition. burma deserves to have a transition to democracy that is responsible, smooth and irreversible.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution adopted by this parliament, tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) and (4) of the rules of procedure, replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the s&d, greens/efa, ppe, alde, gue/ngl and ecr groups, deals with the situation in burma/myanmar. after fifty years of guerrilla warfare and violation of rights, burma is finally giving the world signs of wanting to change its regime towards the establishment of freedom and democracy in full respect of the fundamental rights enshrined by the united nations. i therefore welcome the hopeful changes under way, such as the release of a significant number of political prisoners, the improvement of freedom of information and access to the internet, the way the by-elections of 1 april were conducted (the burmese government invited observers from the european union), the national reconciliation effort ending ethnic persecution, the change in national legislation to allow other parties to stand, etc. i voted in favour of this proposal and i urge the burmese government to continue the reforms under way, including the release of all political prisoners, so that the democratic experience can be consolidated by the time of the next general elections.
in writing. - we value the holding of elections to the national parliament of myanmar as an expression of the independence and sovereignty of this people. and we express our solidarity with all those who fight for democracy and act for the sovereignty of this country. this is one of the poorest countries in the world. many years of conflict between different ethnic groups and the central power (inherited from a colonial presence that has always exploited and exacerbated ethnic differences) continue to push the overwhelming majority of its population into the deepest poverty and misery. we affirm our condemnation of sanctions which are aimed at interference. it is clear that the pragmatism of the interests of big capital and the big powers requires a change in the approach to this country. myanmar's geostrategic location between china and india and its natural resources, including energy, can play an important role for the eu and its nato allies, including the us.
in writing. - the latest developments in burma confirm that the country is on the right path towards democracy. the elections scheduled for 2015 will be a great test to assess what has been previously mentioned. the eu must continue to support the burmese authorities in achieving their goals of making burma a de facto democratic country.
in writing. - i join the european parliament's call for the speedy conclusion of the peace negotiations and hope that sakharov prize laureate daw aung san suu kyi can finally visit the european parliament to be officially awarded the sakharov prize she won in 1990 for all she has done to promote democracy and freedom in burma/myanmar.
in writing. - i am pleased to see the process of democratic transition taking place in burma following the parliamentary elections on 1 april. after 50 long years of military rule, the burmese authorities are giving signs of openness to free and democratic elections and national reconciliation with the election of aung san suu kyi and party militants. in parallel with this progress, i would like to stress the gradual release of political prisoners and the importance which president thein sein intends to attach to the end of ethnic wars in the country. however, more steps need to be taken, including the need for constitutional reform that removes military power from the centre of political decision-making in the country. the eu must now focus on providing full support for this transition process, in particular by training senior administrative staff in the various areas, supporting education and sectors of economic activity. i therefore consider it important that the eu should review certain sanctions imposed on the country as a way of starting a constructive dialogue.
in writing. - the holding of elections to the national parliament of myanmar - which we value as an expression of the independence and sovereignty of this people - was the moment chosen by the majority of the ep to justify the change of political and diplomatic direction, proposing new instruments for eu interference in the internal affairs of this country. the pragmatism of the interests of big business and the big powers that the majority of the ep serves demands a change in the approach to this country. myanmar's geostrategic location between china and india and its natural resources, including energy, can play an important role for the eu and its nato allies, including the us. it is clear that the concern of the majority of the ep has little to do with the people of this country. there is no reference in the resolution to the fact that this is one of the poorest countries in the world. many years of conflict between different ethnic groups and the central power (inherited from a colonial presence that has always exploited ethnic differences) continues to push the overwhelming majority of its population into the deepest poverty and misery. we believe it is essential that the ep should not forget in future that one of the democratic rights is the inalienable right to national sovereignty.
in writing. - i approve this report, expressing my extreme concern that the nationalization of a european company by argentina is a breach of obligations under international agreements. i think we should be wary of the possible negative consequences underlying these kinds of measures, such as the relocation of international investment and the negative consequences for argentina in the international community. it also recalled that the ongoing negotiations for the eu-mercosur partnership agreement aim to establish a framework for economic integration and political dialogue between the two blocs in order to enable the two regions to achieve the highest possible level of prosperity and progress, and considered that for these negotiations to be successful they must be approached by both sides in a spirit of openness and mutual trust.
in writing. - on monday, the european union was surprised by the news that the government of the argentine republic had sent a bill to congress to expropriate 51% of the shares of the spanish oil company ypf/repsol, which, if implemented, would constitute a clear and unequivocal violation of international treaties, especially since argentina is traditionally a beneficiary country of the generalized preferences schemes granted by the eu. this behaviour concerns all european citizens, it constitutes a very serious precedent and it constitutes a situation of political opportunism given the economic and financial crisis that some member states are going through. first of all, i would like to express my solidarity with the spanish government and my regret at the decision of the argentine government. i welcome the swift condemnation by the eu officials through their delegation in buenos aires. european investors need security for their companies so that they can continue to invest and create jobs. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution and i urge the european institutions to take a firm stand in condemning this behaviour and, if necessary, to make their position known in the context of the ongoing negotiations on the eu-mercosur association agreement.
in writing. - i wish to abstain from voting on this text because there has been no discussion on its content, particularly in the committee on economic and monetary affairs, where i am the coordinator. it is not the prestige of this parliament to vote on texts without proper discussion.
in writing. - we believe that it is necessary to respect the sovereignty of each country over its natural resources and the right of all countries to organise their economy in accordance with the interests and will of their people. for this reason, we support the sovereign decision of the argentine government to renationalize ypf. this is an example that should be followed by eu countries, notably portugal, taking public control not only of the energy sector but of other strategic sectors of the economy. the decision is all the more justified as privatisations experience shows do not solve any problem of state debt, but rather lead to loss of profits, jobs and tax revenues, more burdens on social security (because privatisations are always followed by redundancies), and weaken democratic public control by citizens over key sectors of the economy. to that extent, they impoverish democracy itself. what this resolution once again shows is that the majority of this parliament is not here to defend the sovereignty of the people, the rights, interests and needs of workers and the population in general, guaranteeing their access to energy and other natural resources, but rather to defend the profits of the shareholders of large companies such as repsol.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this resolution because there was no discussion on its content, particularly in the committee on foreign affairs, where i am coordinator of the s&d group. it is not the prestige of this parliament to vote on texts without proper discussion.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to be given a role in the fight against terrorism. in a state governed by the rule of law, we cannot accept that trading partners take unilateral shareholding positions in european companies. argentina, as a member of mercosur, must respect existing bilateral agreements and not make them a dead letter. we must condemn this behaviour of argentina in a very strong way, so that similar situations do not happen in the future.
in writing. - i voted with reservations on the resolution on the nationalization of ypf in argentina. i agree with the need to protect european investments abroad, but i do not think that this implies denying any country the right to nationalise companies with european capital, provided that this is done in a non-discriminatory manner and with due compensation. that is why i voted for the gue proposal on argentina's right to nationalise ypf, which does not prejudice the condemnation of buenos aires for selectivity and discrimination against repsol. and i voted against the motion for a resolution on the points where it proposed clearly disproportionate retaliatory measures against argentina.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i reject decisions by any government, without seeking a negotiated solution, to expropriate the majority of the shares of a european company.
in writing. - this debate has reached the european parliament because the argentine government has decided to take control of its natural resources, exercising its right to sovereignty, in a way that is contrary to the interests and needs of the argentine people. in our view, this is a completely legitimate decision - the renationalisation of ypf - in other words, the reversal of the privatisation process of the 1990s, which only led to the argentine people being held hostage by the interests of private businesses, in particular the spanish repsol. we believe that the strategic resources of the economy should be under public control, contrary to what has been happening in portugal, where the ps and psd governments have been paving the way for and implementing the alienation of the public and collective resources of the portuguese people. the majority in the european parliament, rather than submitting to spanish private interests - which will lose a lot of profits with the renationalisation - should have supported this decision. which only shows that it represents not the interests of the people, but of a minority.
in writing. − i agree, as in order to make eu development policy more coherent and effective, the commission services in eu delegations should contribute to the definition of development aid policy and be at the forefront of its implementation. the commission should appoint policy coherence officers in each delegation to monitor the impact of eu policy at partner country level. consideration should also be given to the use of local technicians and existing staff in eu delegations should endeavour to develop links with local societies in order to bridge their unpreparedness and ensure a full understanding of the local environment in which they operate. it is also of the utmost importance that the eu financial instruments in question and the edf should be more poverty-focused and more flexible in their approach and operation, with better accountability and transparency. finally, we must take note of the court of auditors' criticisms of the working relationship between the commission's central services and the delegations in relation to the management of external aid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i support the decentralisation of the commission's assistance to eu delegations. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body.
in writing. − as the world's leading donor and seeking to use the soft power this gives it to promote democracy, freedom, the rule of law and the development of the least-favoured peoples and nations, the european union cannot but pay particular attention to how it spends its taxpayers' money and to evaluate the results of the commitment of resources and people to those purposes. i support european involvement in this worldwide effort to promote development and that it be made increasingly transparent and scrutinized by european citizens as well as by the citizens of the countries receiving aid.
in writing. - the strategy of decentralising the management of the commission's external aid from grants, as referred to in the court of auditors' report, has proved to be a very positive initiative. moreover, the effectiveness of aid to developing countries is of the utmost importance in helping them to overcome their economic and social situation. improving development aid through good management of funds is in the interest of the beneficiary states. i welcome the commission's intention to improve the recommendations of the court of auditors, particularly as regards the development of human resources not only in africa but also in other regions, and, taking advantage of the experience of officials, to change the duration of contracts from 3 to 6 years. i therefore agree with the proposals put forward by mr kaczmarek, both in relation to the recommendations of the court of auditors and in relation to the need to increase the coherence between the objectives of the european union and the real needs of the countries receiving support. i therefore voted in favour of this report, aware that decentralisation helps to reduce the cost of aid.
in writing. − the report considers that the decentralisation of external aid management has improved the efficiency of the provision of funds, making progress with recommendations with which we generally agree, such as: more actual workers and fewer contract agents; reduction of bureaucracy to distribute funds; promotion of local consultations. the rapporteur makes an important warning: the crisis must not be used as an excuse to do more with less, in order to contain or reduce external aid and the costs of its operationalisation. it also draws attention to the work still to be done in the area of the millennium development goals. there are, however, aspects of the report from which we distance ourselves (for example, the considerations on the european external action service) and also some omissions which we consider important. as we said during the debate, effective appropriation of development aid requires a strong involvement of the country, its authorities, institutions and social organisations in the design and implementation of policies. the european union must support, not dictate. it should empower, not impose. it must respect the specificities, choices and sovereign will of the developing countries (note the bad example of the imposition of the so-called economic partnership agreements, despite the resistance of the acp countries).
in writing. − a decentralised approach is beneficial as it brings decision-making closer to the realities surrounding such provision and to situations where more efficient coordination and harmonisation of donors develops in operational terms, with due regard to the need for local ownership. the ultimate objective of the decentralisation and wider reform of external aid managed by the commission is to increase the speed, rigor of financial management procedures and the quality of aid in partner countries. the results of the evaluation by the european court of auditors should only serve to further efforts to increase the effectiveness of aid delivery.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the european parliament's call for the commission and the member states to work towards better links between eu delegations and bilateral agencies and partner governments and other development groups such as think tanks, universities, foundations, ngos and subnational authorities, as these closer links will maximise the comparative advantages of the decentralisation process and of the different actors in the national context, while avoiding unnecessary duplication of effort.
in writing. - article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union stresses that the primary objective of the union's external aid policy is the reduction and, in the long term, the eradication of poverty. in implementing policies which may affect developing countries, the union shall take account of the objectives of development cooperation. it should be noted that 74% of the eu's external aid comes from its own eu budget and the european development fund (edf), implying a decentralised approach by the 136 existing european delegations. i agree with this own-initiative report because i believe that the european commission should contribute to the definition of a long-term strategy for development aid policy, promote the involvement and consultation of local authorities and carry out systematic monitoring visits to existing projects. as bill gates said in the european parliament in brussels, the eu should take the lead in analysing and identifying opportunities to increase the resources of development aid programmes, involving the eib and other international bodies.
in writing. − the report argues that the decentralisation of external aid management has helped to make the funds available more efficiently, suggesting a number of positive recommendations: the commission is also proposing to increase the number of staff in the central services, to improve the assessment of the provision of funds, to increase the number of workers and to reduce the number of contract staff, and to reduce red tape in the distribution of funds. it is also urging that the crisis should not lead to a reduction in resources and that this should not lead to a reduction in staffing levels. but two questions arise the social and economic development of the peripheral countries will only be truly sustainable when they are no longer dependent on powers such as the eu, when they can exploit and develop their own capacities and do not have to watch their resources being continually plundered. we also reiterate that eu external development aid must never, under any circumstances, be associated with the agenda of so-called defence actions with militaristic and interventionist intentions on the part of the eu. development aid must never be used as a pretext for interfering in the internal affairs of countries, in particular by exerting political influence and creating destabilising environments that undermine the sovereignty of the peoples.
in writing. − i welcome this report as the inclusion of gender issues provides an opportunity to strengthen efforts to combat climate change. this report should thus serve the purpose of addressing inequalities and addressing their root causes, to increase women's capacity for financial autonomy, not only by supporting women in critical situations, but also by harnessing their potential to fight climate change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on women and climate change because the effects of climate change do not affect men and women, rich and poor, developed and developing countries equally. women are more affected by poverty (70% of the poor are women) and are more vulnerable to the impacts of climate change.
in writing. − regardless of the gender perspective, any climate change policy, especially in the context of the economic and financial crisis, must seek economic efficiency and sustainability, putting innovation and research at the service of new techniques and new solutions that are more environmentally friendly and equally efficient and competitive. the focus should be on clean energy, more efficient use of natural resources and strong investment in research and more environmentally friendly technologies in order to maintain european competitiveness and enable job creation in a sustainable development framework.
in writing. the resolution under consideration, drawn up by mrs nicole kiil-nielsen, draws our attention to a new problem, namely the awareness of the influence that the gender dimension can (or does) have on climate change. the role played by women in many societies gives them an importance in the management of some natural resources with a direct impact on environmental sustainability. in fact, they are the largest users of water (cooking and cleaning) and of forest products as a source of energy on a daily basis. this matter is of particular relevance when we consider that, in the event of environmental disasters, about 85% of the victims and 75% of the refugees are women. it is therefore essential that they participate in discussion forums and decision-making bodies where their experience can be of value in the adoption of measures to minimise this situation. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i am confident that more responsible and conscious climate action can contribute to improving the quality of life of people in many parts of the world, and particularly in the most disadvantaged regions.
in writing. - this report addresses the issue of climate change from a gender perspective. it is recalled that, as the report states, the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) has confirmed that the impact of climate change varies according to gender, age and social class, with the poorest people being the most affected. we agree with the integration of the gender dimension into all policies, including climate policies. we also agree that gender equality and justice objectives should be set in all policy areas, including this one, so that developments in this area do not exacerbate inequalities between men and women. the report also highlights the positive aspects of the development of implementation plans and evaluation of policies and projects; the adaptation of evaluation and action development tools for environmental protection, with reference to local projects on specific issues and with a focus on women; and the gradual, new and additional increase in funding, calling for the integration of gender equality as a horizontal issue in all climate funds and instruments.
in writing. − women represent approximately 50% of the world's population, yet in relative terms they continue to assume greater responsibility for daily consumer choices, childcare and household activities. given the differentiated roles of men and women, the impact of women on the environment is not the same as that of men, and their access to resources and ways of positioning and adapting themselves can be affected by discrimination in terms of income, access to resources, political power, education and household responsibility. climate change can increase inequalities, and there is a risk that climate change policies, if they do not address gender discrimination from the outset, could have a negative impact on gender balance and women's rights. this report deals with this problem in a balanced way and deserves my support.
in writing. − this report focuses on the effects of climate change on increasing inequalities between women and men. the rapporteur believes that climate change will have a disproportionate impact on women, as this gender inequality is present in all areas of society. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. i think it is important that gender is not excluded from the eu's major priorities, so that it becomes a cross-cutting issue in its policies and strategies. it is therefore necessary to change mentalities and to value the role of women in all dimensions of society. however, i disagree with the need to introduce quotas in eu climate diplomacy, as they are an undervaluation of the genre itself.
in writing. - it is pertinent in this report to consider that dangerous climate change should be the eu's top priority. we reaffirm, however, that more than climate change, it is the capitalist system and its mode of production that by its nature depletes natural resources, jeopardizes the survival of man, and deepens inequalities in access to the quality of life between the working class and the bourgeoisie. the intergovernmental panel on climate change (ipcc) itself has confirmed that the impact of climate change varies according to gender, age and social class, with those most affected being mainly segments of the population living in poverty. we welcome the recommendation to mainstream gender in all phases of climate policies and to set gender equality and equity targets in all policy areas, so that climate action does not exacerbate inequalities between men and women. we do not, however, support the point on the introduction of quotas in the relevant delegations and bodies, since these measures only mask and make invisible the real inequality between men and women in various economic and social areas.
in writing. - i approve this report, recognising that infrastructure construction, urbanisation, industrialisation and physical interventions in the landscape in general are among the most significant factors in the deterioration of ecosystems and habitats. local, regional and national administrations, in the context of planning regulations, implementing measures and within their respective competences, should consider these factors, which sometimes pose a threat to ecosystems and habitats, in planning and urban planning projects, both large and small-scale. the pressures and needs at local and regional level, which require substantial economic development, are understandable, and so i think it is important to point out to local and regional authorities that they should be aware of the necessary balance between development and the need to protect biodiversity and natural habitats. for example, the azores are at the forefront of biodiversity protection, seeking to implement energy plans, tourism activities, etc. that value and protect their biodiversity. as such, regional and local development policies should induce biodiversity benefits and halt further habitat loss.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on our life insurance and our natural capital - eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 because biodiversity is not incompatible with development. biodiversity is a guarantee of life.
in writing. − within the framework of the eu biodiversity strategy, the union as a whole, and with particular attention to all areas covered by community policies, must find a sustainable strategy for the protection of biodiversity and the preservation of ecosystems. i believe that this is particularly relevant in the area of agriculture and fisheries, which is why i am following the reforms of the cfp and the cap with particular attention, since the proper and sustainable preservation of biodiversity, while essential and desirable, cannot be a brake on the sustainability and development of agricultural and fisheries activities.
in writing. − the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 is part of the flagship initiative for a resource-efficient europe and aims to provide the opportunity to take the necessary measures to secure nature and ecosystem services for future generations. this is the right time to mainstream biodiversity in all policy areas as major european policies are currently being reviewed. the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy, common fisheries policy and the european roadmaps for energy, transport and resource efficiency will be transposed into legislation. it is now time to show that the warm words about biodiversity also translate into concrete policy measures. it is important that the european commission and the member states commit themselves to adopting integrated strategies which will make it possible to recognize, in each geographical area, the natural values and the characteristics of its cultural heritage, as well as the conditions necessary for its preservation. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that political support for biodiversity must now be translated into effective and integrated policy measures in all policy areas.
in writing. - this report has been considerably improved from its initial version. we are pleased that several of the amendments we proposed in the committee on the environment have been adopted. examples of amendments are those relating to: funding issues, including the life programme; invasive alien species; the study of the impact of agrofuels; the reduction of the diversity of cultivated species; or some limitations and distortions of the european commission's greening proposal for the next cap. however, other important amendments we proposed were rejected, which we regret. as a consequence, the report contains some serious omissions on the one hand and, on the other, views and guidelines that we do not share, such as those on the european commission's proposals for reforms of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy (which we welcome), or the whole of the so-called business and biodiversity aspect. we stress the amendments concerning the financing of the natura 2000 network, the criticism of the current agricultural and trade policies and the need for their radical change, the fisheries policy (proximity management, more means for data acquisition), the monitoring of the implementation of the strategy, among others. it is not enough to set ambitious goals, we must look after the means of achieving them. the report is flawed at this level.
in writing. − the eu biodiversity strategy to 2020 gives us the opportunity to take the necessary steps to secure nature and ecosystem services for future generations. all we need is political conviction, courage and commitment to avoid failure. the main objective is to mainstream biodiversity in all policy fields. and this may be the right time, because all the major european policies are currently being reviewed. the common agricultural policy, cohesion policy, common fisheries policy and the european roadmaps for energy, transport and resource efficiency will be transposed into legislation. the objectives set out in the eu biodiversity strategy by 2020 can be achieved. all we need is a transposition into policy measures of the political support for biodiversity expressed by many world leaders.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that european natural capital is a major asset which needs to be invested and maintained and from which a genuine cohesion policy can be derived. the objectives set out in the eu biodiversity strategy by 2020 can be achieved through the transposition of policy measures to support biodiversity.
in writing. − the safeguarding of biodiversity must be a cross-cutting element in the eu's sectoral policies. in parallel, the eu diversity strategy to 2020 should be present in the eu's external policy as a way of calling on third countries to provide an appropriate and timely response to ensure the sustainability of natural ecosystems. i regret that the objectives of the 2010 strategy have not been fully achieved, and therefore i consider it key to mainstream biodiversity in all eu sectoral policies in order to achieve one of the pillars of the eu 2020 strategy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (aema) is a step in the right direction. at the same time, member states should cooperate in the protection of the natural heritage, including it in their national programmes and projects. we cannot but stress that our natural heritage is an inexhaustible resource. the use and abuse we make of it will have repercussions on our way of life, and consequently on our quality of life as citizens.
in writing. − the report contains positive aspects which we value, particularly in the parts concerning the funding of the life programme, invasive alien species, the study of the impact of agrofuels, the reduction of the diversity of cultivated species. there are, however, some recommendations that we could never follow up, in particular those concerning the european commission's proposals for reforms of the common agricultural policy and the common fisheries policy, and all the emphasis placed on the idea of business and biodiversity. environmental concerns should never be seen as an 'opportunity' for business to be set up for profit. they must be taken into account as matters of principle.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the seventh environment action programme (eap) should provide the appropriate framework to ensure sufficient funding, in particular for innovation, research and development, and that the funding of environmental objectives, in synergy with the life programme, and that the full integration of environmental protection should be an important part of the next multiannual financial framework, the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap), the common fisheries policy (cfp), cohesion policy and the horizon 2020 programme. i believe in particular that the eu should allow new sources of funding for the eap to be created. i believe that the seventh eap should provide a comprehensive framework to enable us to address recurrent and emerging environmental and sustainability challenges, taking due account of existing and planned measures and taking into account the outermost regions, which are seen as an added value in terms of environmental value and can make this programme an opportunity to promote the sustainable development of these regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the review of the sixth environment action programme and the setting of priorities for the seventh environment action programme, because i consider it essential to ensure a rapid transition to the next programme and to avoid any gaps. the continuity of the environment action programmes should be ensured as a guiding framework for eu environmental policy and with a view to further integrating environmental objectives into all sectoral policies.
in writing. − the sixth environment action programme will end in july 2012 and the final evaluation, published on 31 august 2011, concluded that overall it has provided a comprehensive framework for environmental policy, during which environmental legislation has been consolidated and completed in a significant way, and that adoption through the co-decision process has increased its legitimacy and helped create a sense of ownership for subsequent policy proposals. the priorities for the seventh programme must now be set, at a time when the environmental challenge is of the utmost importance and is far from being met. by 2050, improving global environmental performance is urgently needed and this requires a commitment to a greener and more sustainable economy in a framework of competitiveness, employment and job creation.
in writing. − the sixth environment action programme has provided a comprehensive framework for environmental policy, during which environmental legislation has been consolidated and supplemented in a significant way. the adoption of the environment action programme through the co-decision process has increased its legitimacy and helped to create a sense of ownership for subsequent policy proposals. however, the present situation as regards the environment is far from satisfactory. scientific data clearly show that we cannot maintain the current situation, as it puts too much pressure on the ability of the planet to support the demand for resources and services linked to ecosystems or to absorb pollution. i therefore consider it important to adopt a seventh environmental action programme which ensures the strengthening of environmental legislation, which addresses environmental policies in a transversal and integrated manner and which has an international dimension in environmental protection.
in writing. − the sixth environment action programme ends on 22 july 2012, so this report takes stock and redefines priorities for the subsequent programme. the report makes positive points, including the advocacy of an appropriate framework to ensure sufficient funding for innovation, research and development; the advocacy of funding for environmental objectives taking into account the protection of biodiversity and forests; efficient and sustainable use of resources, providing the necessary synergy with the life programme; the provision of sufficient resources for the conservation of the natura 2000 network; and the full integration of environmental protection as an important part of the next multiannual financial framework (mff). but as we know, the proposal for a mff under discussion does not guarantee that. some improvements were also proposed in the objectives of the new programme, notably the removal of the mention of the market. citizen responsibility has been relaxed to place more emphasis on producer responsibility. it should be borne in mind that the future environment programme, in addition to a framework to ensure coherence between the various environmental policies and actions, lacks coherence between the objectives proclaimed in the field of the environment and the other sectoral policies, a coherence which does not exist today.
in writing. − a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are the conditions for ensuring the quality of life and preserving the stability of ecosystems. environment action programmes have guided the development of eu environmental policy since the early 1970s. they have been an important driving force for the adoption of strong community environmental legislation, particularly in areas such as air, water, waste and climate. environmental protection enhances quality of life, including by protecting ecosystems and their services, halting biodiversity loss, ensuring better air quality, reducing noise, creating jobs and growth, and ensuring the well-being of current and future generations. however, given that the environment is not in a satisfactory state, we must immediately start the seventh environmental action programme.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur when he says that the seventh environment action programme must provide a strong comprehensive framework to ensure coherence. it should ensure that all current 2020 environmental objectives in the different policy areas are included and analysed together and should also provide a clear and ambitious vision for 2050 in order to offer a long-term perspective to all stakeholders. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − environment action programmes aim to define the environmental policy of the european union, playing a central role in the legislative guidance in the environmental areas of air, water, waste and climate. the sixth environment action programme ends in july 2012 and a thorough evaluation and the definition of strategic priorities for the subsequent programme is needed. i agree with the present report that it gives a positive assessment of the action of the sixth environmental programme, but it also considers that many of the objectives set have not been met and should therefore continue to be a priority in the future programme. i believe that the seventh action programme should establish a rigorous environmental policy and be closely aligned with the economic development of nations, set concrete targets for 2020 and define an ambitious long-term vision that will make it possible to achieve a sustainable future and improve the quality of life of the people. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the european union's international role in the area of climate change, efficient and sustainable use of resources, biodiversity, forests and environmental quality needs to be strengthened.
in writing. − the report makes positive points: advocating an 'appropriate framework to ensure sufficient funding' for innovation, research and development; advocating that funding for environmental objectives take into account the protection of biodiversity and forests, an efficient and sustainable use of resources, providing the necessary synergy with the life programme; providing sufficient resources for the conservation of the natura 2000 network; and fully integrating environmental protection as an important part of the next multiannual financial framework (mff). one of the positive changes is the removal of the mention of the market and the responsibility of producers. we reiterate, however, that there is an incompatibility between the economic policies of the european union in general and the stated objectives of environmental protection.
european economies were caught in the almost criminal irresponsibility of the global financial sector when they were already on a downward trend, due in part to changes in the distribution of wealth between the west and emerging economies. we have not questioned the rules of the game and have allowed countries with high social protection systems to be penalized. where we were supposed to have social market economies, we have declining living standards, more inequality and a greater share of the profits of big business in national income at the expense of wages. in this debate on the future of europe, it is important that we defend an alternative of hope for europe, stressing the need for more europe, with a coherent economic approach based on shared responsibility, growth and equality. the management of budgets must be based on public expenditure control, reproductive investment and a fair tax system, with the private sector contributing its fair share to the collective effort, with a total fight against evasion, fraud and tax havens. social justice is now essential to europe's recovery.
in writing. today we celebrate europe day, a european construction project which began more than 50 years ago, based on a pact between sovereign nations determined to share a common destiny and to exercise together an increasing share of their sovereignty. a europe based on common values and seeking to ensure peace, security, human dignity, democracy, justice, solidarity, sustainable development and quality of life for its 500 million citizens. at a time when the crisis is confronting us with new challenges and difficulties, it is important to strengthen the common project because nationalist illusions would lead us to isolation and failure. on the contrary, we must increasingly seek a genuine common voice, restore dignity to the principle of european solidarity, face the problem of population decline and, at the same time, the enormous growth of migratory pressures, combat the ongoing economic crisis, increase the levels of economic growth, ensure the sustainability of the european economy and strengthen the single currency by reducing the high levels of unemployment, with particular emphasis on the younger age group. the europe we want to be proud of is the europe that puts people first, that is not limited to the common market, the europe of the citizens and respect for human rights.
in writing. increasingly, the european union is demonstrating its true nature, the nature of capitalist integration which is only intended to benefit the big economic and financial groups, an integration which satisfies their expansionist drive to conquer new markets, to have easier access to cheap labour and resources, to liberalise areas such as public services in order to pass them into the hands of the private sector. in the face of the crisis caused by capitalism through financial speculation, what solution does the eu have to offer the people? what an imperialist bloc can offer: the increase of the exploitation of labour and the creation of mechanisms that transfer the wealth created by the workers to monopoly capital. the so-called austerity measures are nothing more than that. the direct transfer of wages, pensions, social supports and subsidies, the gigantic profits that the privatized public services and sectors can offer directly into the hands of capital. the workers and the people want a different future for europe, and they have shown this in massive social struggles.
i would like to begin by congratulating mrs niebler on her excellent work and to point out how coincidental it is that on europe day we are debating and tomorrow approving measures which are contrary to the legitimate aspirations of our citizens. the aim of this regulation is to impose limits on mobile phone charges charged to european consumers when roaming, with the overall aim of ending roaming in the european union by 2016. our citizens will benefit from a sharp drop in prices for calls, sms and data. if today there are operators who charge three euros per mega, from july the maximum price they can charge is 70 cents per mega, increasing this amount to 20 cents in 2014. as for incoming calls, the maximum price that can be charged will be eight cents this year and five cents in 2014. in july 2012, a family with two mobile phone users will save, as the commissioner said, two hundred euros on their bill. second benefit: better quality of information for consumers. as of the summer, operators are obliged to inform consumers of the prices charged when they travel outside the european union. until now, the obligation was only within the european area. third advantage: the possibility of more operators entering the market, which means increased competition which will stimulate better services and better prices. finally, in the near future, the consumer may, if he so chooses, have two contracts: one for services in the national territory and the other for services abroad, keeping the same mobile number and having only one invoice. the consumer, our citizen, will also be given the opportunity to contract with any european operator offering him the best price. this report is the perfect example of a people's europe, a europe of freedom of movement and freedom of establishment.
this report states that the european union will now be in a much better position to develop its foreign policy and its national trade agreements with the countries of the southern mediterranean. but it is worth remembering that the nature of the previous regimes has not upset the european union up to now, nor have its governments, which have established such deep relations. the report, following the european commission, advocates the concept of a "plus for plus", i.e. that democratic reforms and individual freedoms should be reflected in a process of economic liberalisation and trade liberalization through the consolidation of the euro-mediterranean free trade area. but is it liberation or pre-colonization? the free trade agreements have only proved to date that they have meant the loss of sovereignty of peoples, the appropriation by multinational companies of natural resources and biodiversity, the increase in external dependence on third countries and the disaster in productive sectors in some member states. what is needed is the establishment of fairer and more equitable economic relations at the service of the people and not free trade agreements which benefit certain economic and financial groups.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, in recent months, more than 70,000 people and some 300 organizations have given a very strong voice to a campaign against seed patenting. this broad movement, anchored in several national campaigns, has drawn attention to the way patent legislation has been applied in the european union, paving the way for the patenting of plants and animals, genetic material, biological processes essential to life. this unacceptable course has led, for example, to the creation of genuine monopolies in production processes in the agricultural sector. two multinationals control and divide the market between themselves at the expense of the ruin of very small and medium-sized producers, the reduction of the diversity of production and the possibilities of choice for consumers. the ethical, social and political implications of this issue are profound. we therefore welcome the citizens and organisations who have been involved in this campaign. it is one thing to invent processes of genetic modification using molecular biology, and quite another to invent the products, the living organisms, that come from these technologies. the existence of intellectual property rights in these organisms is just as unacceptable as the patenting of conventional genetic selection processes, of crossbreeding processes or of the resulting breeding products, such as new plant or animal varieties, or of laboratory-assisted selection processes involving whole genomes. in this respect, this resolution brings some clarity where it was needed.
regional airports and regional aviation, if properly integrated into comprehensive regional development strategies aimed at fully exploiting the endogenous potential of the regions in which they are located, can be an important instrument to support such development by helping to combat regional asymmetries. this requires a proper connection with other modes of transport, such as rail or maritime transport, ensuring conditions for the mobility of people and goods, which take into account essential environmental sustainability criteria. but the development of these services, according to a logic of the prevalence of the public interest, is not compatible with the process of liberalization under way in the sector and with the dogmas of the free market which guide the project of the single european sky and which subject the necessary state intervention and regulation, even in matters relating to security, to sacrosanct free competition. a word about the worrisome deterioration of working conditions in the sector. the ongoing liberalization has been facilitating social dumping by the multinationals in the sector, forcing precarious employment and lowering working conditions. low-cost companies have an indispensable role to play here.
in writing. - i support this report because it advocates more fair trade relations between european producers and world producers who do not respect the same rules as our own producers. according to the study prior to this report, it is concluded that article 9 (5) of council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community (the basic anti-dumping regulation) was in breach of articles 6.10, 9.2 and 18.4 of the wto anti-dumping agreement and article xvi:4 of the wto agreement. article 9 (5) of the basic anti-dumping regulation provides that individual exporting producers in non-market economy countries which do not benefit from market economy treatment in accordance with article 2 (7) (c) of the basic anti-dumping regulation will be subject to a countrywide duty unless such exporters can demonstrate that they meet the conditions for individual treatment set out in article 9 (5) of the basic anti-dumping regulation (rl's finding on article 9 (5) of the basic anti-dumping regulation).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community, as i consider it of the utmost importance that the european community's provisions on this matter respect the obligations it has assumed before the wto.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which proposes to implement a legislative proposal recommended by the world trade organisation's dispute settlement body so that european legislation is in line with what has been agreed with the wto.
in writing. − this legislative proposal, following the european communities final anti-dumping measures on certain iron or steel fasteners from china proceeding, aims to implement the recommendations of the world trade organisation dispute settlement body and to set a reasonable timeframe for this to occur, as agreed between the european union and china on 19 january 2012. i believe that it is the union's interest to resolve this conflict and to bring its legislation into line with the agreements concluded and in force within the wto.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mr vital moreira, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european union (eu). this proposed amendment follows the adoption by the dispute settlement body (dsb) of the world trade organization (wto) of the report of the appellate body on the european communities definitive anti-dumping measures on certain iron or steel fasteners from china case, which pointed to the existence of non-conformities between regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 and the wto anti-dumping agreement. given that on 19 january 2012 the eu and china agreed on the deadlines for implementing the recommendations and decisions of the dsb and that the committee on international trade has already adopted this draft resolution under the simplified procedure method, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the proposed amendment to this regulation, which the committee on international trade decided to adopt under the simplified procedure, aims to incorporate into eu law, and in particular into the basic anti-dumping regulation in question, the decision of 28 july 2011 of the dispute settlement body of the world trade organisation (wto). the eu-china dispute arose from the fact that eu legislation discriminates against individual exporting producers in 'non-market economy countries' which is contrary to the rules of the wto itself and in particular its anti-dumping agreement. it means... the provisions requiring, for example, that in the exporting producer companies in question 'the majority of the capital is actually held by private individuals' are thus eliminated. although this report is aimed at an adaptation which seeks to bring eu legislation into line with the rules of the wto - an organisation whose actions and principles we disagree with - it is nevertheless significant and interesting to see how, in this case, the eu surpasses the wto itself in commercial glamour and neoliberal fundamentalism.
in writing. - european companies have to comply with a number of requirements imposed by european legislation, which often puts them in an unfair competitive situation when confronted with other countries outside the european community, which practice various types of dumping. with the adoption of this report, companies importing from countries which do not respect the rules and practice various types of dumping will be forced to pay higher tariffs at europe's borders. this is a very important and necessary measure to protect our companies against serious distortions of competition. the industry in my country, portugal, suffers from this type of unfair competition, particularly with the import of textiles from pakistan, a situation i have been warning about for a long time.
in writing. − given the importance of ensuring legal certainty, i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community, so that the european community's provisions on this matter respect the obligations assumed under the wto.
in writing. - this report calls for greater control and protection against dumped imports from countries outside the european community. due to the import of certain iron or steel fasteners from china, it was found that the basic anti-dumping regulation of the council was not in conformity with the provisions of certain provisions of the wto anti-dumping agreement. in order to facilitate the eu's compliance with the deadline for implementing wto recommendations and decisions, more specifically through its dispute settlement body (dsb), the international trade committee approved the draft settlement under the simplified procedure. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'customs' in the definition of the concept of 'commercial'. this regulation adopts the legislation of the european union in the light of russia's accession to the wto. the european commission estimates that this regulation is equivalent to approximately eur 107 million per year in exports and that the competitiveness of the eu steel sector will increase due to the reduction of export duties. the application of this legislation will thus bring economic opportunities for european producers, which is essential at a time of crisis and especially in a market which is close to us geographically.
in writing. - restrictions on russian steel imports no longer made sense after russia joined the wto. the lifting of these restrictions will also allow trade with russia to increase, in particular the export of european steel and iron to that country. any failure by either party to comply with the applicable wto rules may be resolved through existing wto dispute settlement mechanisms. for these reasons i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it proposes to lift the restrictions on imports of certain steel products from russia. the current application of the restrictions no longer makes sense now that russia has joined the world trade organization.
in writing. - russia's accession to the world trade organisation means that the tariff quota for imports into the european union of steel originating in russia will be abolished. its maintenance would imply a breach of wto rules by the union and would make it subject to legal action by russia. further liberalisation of access to the russian market can benefit the union and should be extended to other areas of trade within the wto framework, which is considered to be the best means of ensuring the viability of a multilateral trading system.
in writing. − the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and russia, of the other part, entered into force on 1 december 1997 and led to the establishment of an agreement on trade in certain steel products originating in the russian federation, in accordance with council regulation (ec) no 1342/2007. this report, by robert sturdy, deals with a new proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council repealing the above regulation and on the administration of certain restrictions on imports of certain steel products from the russian federation. although russian steel imports to the eu are significant, representing 24% of total imports of steel products, the acp provided that if russia acceded to the world trade organisation (wto) it would have to be withdrawn and the quota abolished. so, without questioning the interest in strengthening eu-russia trade relations, i agree with the rapporteur that the wto remains the best guarantor of a rules-based multilateral trading system and therefore i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european union and the russian federation have since 2007 established an agreement on trade in certain steel products, concerning the administration of certain restrictions on imports of certain steel products originating in russia. however, as russia became a member of the wto in december 2011, the european union lost the right to apply the above mentioned quota. the maintenance of this regulation and the consequent preservation of the quota for imports of steel products would constitute a violation of wto rules and would expose the eu to legal action by russia. the eu must therefore revoke the agreement currently in force. the rapporteur believes that the entry of the russian federation into the wto will bring benefits to the eu as it will have more liberal access to the russian market. the report is essentially a technical adaptation, but the philosophy and the guidelines underlying it are those of compliance with the wto rules and the international trade vision which inspires it, with which we disagree.
in writing. − with russia's accession to the multilateral trading system based on wto rules, the eu could benefit from more liberal access to the russian market. the increase in additional exports could amount to approximately eur 107 million per year in the iron and steel sector alone. from now on, even if there are any obstacles to bilateral trade in steel products, they will be minimal and will apply only in the exclusive domain of wto rules governing such matters as tariffs, applicable trade defence measures, technical standards, specific customs procedures, etc. with this accession, greater control and careful removal of any remaining trade and investment barriers by russia is required. it is my conviction that the wto remains the best guarantor of a rules-based multilateral trading system; i therefore hope that both its new member, russia, and the eu will fulfil all their wto commitments. i would also like to see the eu-russia trade relationship developed with a view to full compliance with the provisions agreed jointly in various bilateral agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the lifting of restrictions on russian steel imports, since they no longer make sense after russia's accession to the wto. the lifting of these restrictions will also allow trade with russia to increase, in particular the export of european steel and iron to that country. any failure by either party to comply with the applicable wto rules may be resolved through existing wto dispute settlement mechanisms.
in writing. − under the 1997 partnership and cooperation agreement between the european community and the russian federation, the agreement on trade in certain steel products was concluded in 2007. this agreement was implemented in the eu in the form of a regulation which, in addition to fixing a quantitative limit on steel imports, also laid down the condition that if the russian federation acceded to the wto before the expiry of the agreement, the agreement would have to be terminated. due to russia's accession to the multilateral system based on wto rules, the maintenance of the regulation in european law and consequent preservation of the quota for the import of steel products would constitute a breach of wto rules and would expose the eu to possible legal action by russia. however, the eu can expect to benefit from more liberal access to the russian market, which would stimulate competition and subsequently lower consumer prices. for these reasons, i voted in favour.
in writing. − as russia became a member of the wto in december 2011, the european union lost the right to apply the agreement on trade in certain steel products, concerning the administration of certain restrictions on imports of certain steel products originating in russia. the maintenance of this regulation and the consequent preservation of the quota for imports of steel products would constitute a violation of wto rules and would expose the eu to legal action by russia. the eu must therefore revoke the agreement currently in force. we do not agree with the political principles underlying the report, namely the wto rules and the whole philosophy of international trade that is implied.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. today, virtually all users consult only the electronic version of eu legal acts. the fact that electronic versions of legal acts are not legally binding is in itself unacceptable and creates uncertainty as to the exact content of eu legal acts currently available in the eur-lex database. furthermore, consulting the printed version of the official journal is a time-consuming and costly process and few users do so. the reform will therefore enhance legal certainty and reduce the costs of access for citizens and businesses. all these reforms should be warmly welcomed in the eu. a less bureaucratic, more facilitated and more accessible european union will only promote economic progress.
in writing. − it is essential that european citizens have simple and reliable access to the legal acts of the european union. the electronic version of the official journal allows this kind of access and is a crucial information tool of the european union. consulting the printed version of the official journal is a time-consuming and costly process which few users resort to. the circumstance that electronic versions of legal acts are not legally binding has to be overcome as it creates uncertainty as to the exact content of eu legal acts. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it contributes to legal certainty and to reducing the cost of access to legal acts of the european union for citizens and businesses.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider that the council text presupposes a positive reform of the way the official journal of the european union is published, contributing to improving the access of european citizens to eu legislation.
in writing. − the present proposal aims to make the electronic edition of the official journal of the eu (oj) as an official version authentic, up-to-date and complete. these amendments are purely technical in nature and, in my view, welcome. the official and authentic nature of the electronic edition of the oj will improve citizens' access to eu legislation, increase legal certainty and reduce access costs for citizens and businesses, as online consultation of an official and authentic edition will always be free of charge.
in writing. − the transmission of data and the circulation of official information via the internet and the environmental awareness of the need to reduce the felling of trees for the paper industry have led many companies and public bodies to reduce their paper-based communications by opting for electronic means. however, as regards the legal validity of these notifications, several voices expressed reservations because there was no legislation to allow this. a 2007 judgment of the european court of justice states that rights are not enforceable and obligations cannot be enforced on the basis of the electronic version of the oj (official journal of the european union). to overcome this problem, the commission put forward a proposal on 4 april 2011 to increase legal certainty by broadening access to eu legislation and allowing the use of the electronic edition of the oj as the official, authentic, up-to-date and complete version by anyone. i voted in favour of this proposal for a council regulation on the electronic publication of the eu oj, as the amendments are technical in nature, they increase legal certainty and allow citizens better access to eu legal acts.
in writing. − this report proposes that the electronic edition of the official journal (oj) of the eu should be the official, authentic, up-to-date and complete version, as opposed to the printed edition which would have legal value only in exceptional and temporary cases of unforeseeable disruption of electronic publication. the proposed regulatory amendment now strengthens legal certainty. today, most users only consult the electronic version of eu legal acts. the rapporteur notes that the fact that electronic versions of legal acts are not legally binding is itself problematic and creates uncertainty as to the exact content of eu legal acts currently available in the eur-lex database. in addition, consulting the printed version of the official journal is a time-consuming and costly process, and few users do so. the proposal also has an undeniable environmental advantage. while positive, this amendment does not remove the need to continue improving access of the entire population to relevant official public documentation, taking into account the difficulties and limitations that still persist at this level.
in writing. − this recommendation, by allowing anyone to use the electronic edition of the official journal of the eu (oj) as the official, authentic, up-to-date and complete version, enhances legal certainty and security. it also promotes greater access to legislation, allowing citizens better access to european law and, consequently, to the european union itself, thus reinforcing european citizenship. i voted in favour of all of this.
in writing. - i fully support this new regulation, as it strengthens legal certainty and provides better access for citizens to legal acts of the european union by making electronic publication equivalent to a legally valid publication of the official journal. this text promotes better public access to european legislation, recognising the important role played today by new information technologies, including the internet, in the dissemination of european law. this innovation also introduces significant savings and reduces the environmental impact of the activities of the european institutions.
in writing. − transparency is a key value for the success of the european project and for the involvement of citizens in this cause. it is essential that european citizens have quick and reliable access to the legal acts of the european union. the electronic version of the official journal allows this kind of access and is a crucial information tool of the european union. in order to make progress in this process, it is important to overcome the fact that electronic versions of legal acts are not legally binding. this creates uncertainty as to the exact content of the legal acts of the european union. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because of the facts which have been pointed out and because i consider that this regulation is intended to contribute to legal certainty and to reducing the costs of access to legal acts of the european union for citizens and businesses.
in writing. - the report deals mainly with the proposal by the committee on legal affairs that electronic publication should be equivalent to a legally valid publication of the official journal, and that only in exceptional and temporary cases of unforeseeable disruption to electronic publication, only the printed edition should have legal value. it should be noted that the background to the intention to make this amendment dates from 2007, when the cj gave a judgment declaring that the rights are not enforceable and that the obligations cannot be enforced on the basis of the electronic version of the oj. this is a positive reform of the way the oj is published, as it increases legal certainty and provides better access for citizens to legal acts of the european union, especially since virtually all users nowadays consult only the electronic version of eu legal acts. furthermore, consulting the printed version of the official journal is a time-consuming and costly process and few users do so. the reform will therefore enhance legal certainty and reduce the costs of access for citizens and businesses.
in writing. − this report proposes changes of a purely technical nature, so that the electronic edition of the official journal of the eu will now be the official, authentic, up-to-date and complete version, as opposed to the printed edition which will have legal value only in exceptional and temporary cases of unforeseeable disruption of electronic publication. this new procedure could be positive in terms of ensuring greater public access to information, in this case to legislation produced by the eu.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that, by letter of 7 october 2011, the romanian authorities stated that: since vadim tudor has not been arrested, detained or subject to a search, there is no need to seek the consent of the european parliament. since the facts of the case are not related to votes or political opinions expressed in the course of his duties, and since vadim tudor has not been arrested, detained or subject to any search, it is not considered necessary to request the waiver of his immunity.
in writing. − this report, by cecilia wilkström, concerns the request for defence of the immunity and privileges of corneliu vadim tudor, mep, lodged on 14 april 2011 following a case brought against him by the public prosecutor's office before the high court of cassation and justice of romania. mr tudor is charged with contempt of court, conduct contrary to public morals and disturbing the peace for threatening a judicial officer and police officers when they were trying to enforce a court decision in connection with proceedings for the eviction of the romania mare party from its premises in bucharest. the rapporteur considers that the circumstances surrounding the dismissal of the romania mare party are exclusively in the sphere of civil and criminal matters and therefore have no relation to the performance of the duties of a member of the european parliament and that, in these terms, articles 8 and 9 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union cannot be invoked. in this connection, and in the light of the report by the committee on legal affairs, i am voting in favour of the report recommending that the immunity and privileges of corneliu vadim tudor should not be upheld.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. however, the facts of the case relate to criminal proceedings in which the member is accused of threatening a judicial officer and some police officers, of committing acts of violence against them, insulting them and in general attempting to obstruct the execution of a judicial decision in the context of the eviction of the romania mare party from its premises in bucharest on 4 january 2011. in these criminal proceedings corneliu vadim tudor is accused of contempt of court, of behaviour contrary to public morals and of disturbing the peace. the expulsion of the romania mare party and the circumstances surrounding it are in fact civil and criminal matters respectively which have no direct and obvious connection with the exercise of the duties of member of the european parliament, and i therefore voted in favour of not defending the immunity of corneliu vadim tudor.
in writing. - mr tudor has asked the european parliament to uphold his parliamentary immunity in the context of the proceedings brought against him by the public prosecutor's office before the high court of cassation and justice of romania. considering that the circumstances of the case at hand, the eviction of the romania mare party from its premises, are a matter of civil and criminal law without a direct and obvious connection with the exercise of the functions of a member of the european parliament, i voted, following the opinion of the juri committee, for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of vadim tudor.
in writing. - i welcome this report, which also stresses the need for a public service obligation for air services which are not economically viable. this is extremely important in terms of the fair treatment of the outermost regions in the context of the trans-european transport networks, which are repeatedly excluded and kept in isolation. however, this report advocates a balanced approach to the revision of the aviation guidelines and warns against the proliferation of new regional airports which could result in an economic burden for regions that have chosen to have one without having sufficient traffic to support it. the existing regional airports need to be better integrated into the european intermodal and transport network. finally, the more stringent security measures implemented at regional airports should be covered by general taxation. this report sends a strong signal to the commission to review certain aspects of regional aviation in europe in order to make regional airports and the services they provide more attractive to passengers and services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that european regional airports are essential to the creation of an efficient and functional european transport network, which facilitates trade and ensures the mobility of an increasing number of people, and because i believe that the practice of some airlines of applying undue charges which may threaten the activity of regional airports must be combated.
in writing. − regional aviation can play a crucial role in achieving free movement within the eu by providing better connectivity for citizens, businesses and products from different regions of the eu, especially in the case of the most remote regions with the least access or the outermost regions, thus contributing significantly to the territorial cohesion and social and economic development of these regions. in particular, in a time of economic crisis, if it is important to avoid a proliferation of regional airports that would not meet either efficiency or sustainability criteria, it is also essential to maintain and strengthen existing links with regions affected by less favourable geographical conditions and to promote better links between regional airports and neighbouring cities, which could bring clear benefits in terms of reducing congestion at central airports. it is essential that the necessary measures be taken to improve the operational and economic efficiency of regional airports and to improve the conditions offered to passengers using these infrastructures and services. a clear and concrete definition of the concept of regional airport should be adopted and the criteria for obtaining grants and public funds should be set out in a clear and transparent manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that regional air services are essential for the proper functioning of the single market, promoting the cities and regions they serve. the proposed recommendations seek to improve the operational and economic efficiency of airports and regional air services, which will have to be considered as key elements for the creation of an efficient and functional european transport network.
in writing. − this report seeks to identify the regional airports, state aid and airline support, price transparency, restrictions on passengers such as the one-bag per passenger rule, which have a direct impact on competition and commercial activities in regional aviation. i share the rapporteur's view that european regional airports should be seen as key elements in the creation of an efficient and functional european transport network, playing a key role in the territorial, economic and social cohesion of the member states and the eu.
in writing. − regional airports, when properly located, with safety conditions and a network of connections to other means of transport, play a key role in territorial, economic and social cohesion within the european union. it is easy to understand that not every city can have an airport. however, there are regions, especially the outermost, peripheral and/or island regions, where these airports are the only effective means of connecting these regions to the rest of europe. the eu's policy in this area should be to promote the provision of rigorous public services - with a focus on safety - to prevent the proliferation of regional airports, to accelerate the implementation of the air traffic management system (sesar) and the clean sky initiative and the implementation of the single european sky legislation, to create an intermodal system that makes the market more competitive and to promote regional development. i voted in favour of this report because, in the context of the economic crisis and the efforts to consolidate the budget we are going through, it appeals to common sense to achieve a balance between the social and territorial needs of a given region and the need for competitiveness and financial balance of each airport.
in writing. - this report recognises the importance of regional airports and aviation for the economic development of the regions, especially (but not exclusively) in the case of the outermost regions. it also recognises, to some extent, the role of public policies in promoting this development. but it also soon defends the supremacy of the market, reducing the scope for manoeuvre of the states and even calling into question their intervention and regulation - which are essential in the organisation of these services and in their articulation with a logic of public interest and promotion of development. the defence of the single european sky and the underlying approach to liberalising the sector are very revealing. the apology for sacrosanct free competition and the resulting limitations on state intervention is repeatedly mentioned throughout the report. and even safety issues are subject to the principle of free competition - measures in this area are limited to respecting this principle (paragraph 37). it is a view which we cannot accept for the reasons we mentioned during the debate. some remarks on the role of low-cost airlines and some positive proposals in this area do not erase the more negative aspects of this report.
in writing. − it is essential to create a european aviation area that is strong, competitive and economically viable, facilitating trade and ensuring the mobility of an increasing number of people, making free movement within the eu a reality. regional airports make a strong economic contribution to the regions in which they are located, by the advantages they bring in terms of increased mobility, the promotion of tourism, access to new markets and attracting more foreign economic investment. i welcome the adoption of this report and have voted in favour.
in writing. − the european union has revolutionized air services by making it possible for low-cost airlines to use secondary airports, enabling mobility unprecedented on the european continent. the present proposal, based on the same mobility objectives, aims to legislate on the definition of a regional airport and to prevent abusive practices, such as charging undue fees, based on a different qualification of the airport concerned. these charges may even threaten the activity of regional airports. indeed, regional european airports are essential for the creation of an efficient and functional european transport network, which facilitates trade and ensures the mobility of an increasing number of people. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − airports and regional air services are not only essential as transport nodes facilitating the smooth functioning of the eu's single market, but also as key drivers of economic growth. together, they broaden the horizons of traditional trade routes and contribute to significantly boosting the cities and regions they serve. aviation is a sector with limited margins, so it is essential that we create an aviation space that is strong, competitive and economically viable. however, in addition to the economic hurdles, we also face obstacles related to the impact of aviation on the environment, congestion and safety itself. i believe that regional european airports should be seen as key elements in creating an efficient and functional european transport network, which facilitates trade and ensures the mobility of an increasing number of people. in addition to playing a crucial role in achieving free movement within the eu, it will play an important role in promoting tourism, in gaining access to new markets and in attracting more foreign economic investment.
in writing. - this report recognises the importance of regional airports and aviation for the economic development of regions in several territories, including the outermost regions. while recognising the role of public policies in promoting this development, it also advocates the supremacy of the market, reducing the scope for action by the states and even calling into question their intervention and regulation. throughout the report, the single european sky and the approach to liberalising the sector are advocated, approaches with which we strongly disagree.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that it lists four major priority areas in which the commission should take new initiatives: monitoring of financial engineering instruments, improving the reliability of the chain of responsibility, pre-financing and effective sanctioning mechanisms at the level of cohesion policy. i and my colleagues in the s&d group believe that there is a need to improve the control of audit mechanisms and to encourage member states to take greater responsibility in the context of shared management. i also think it is important to align the different mechanisms used by the court of auditors and the commission to avoid errors.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it gives the commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010. it is of the utmost importance that the union stands out as an example of good public management, which is necessary to maintain the triple a rating, which is indispensable to guarantee the commitment of the eur 60 000 000 000 guarantee for the european financial stabilisation mechanism.
in writing. − despite the court of auditors' favourable opinion, i cannot help but consider that, as regards payments made, the increase in the error rate between 2009 and 2010 is worrying. in addition, it is important to reinforce the need for the commission to present a plan to (i) closely monitor the use of financial engineering instruments; (ii) improve and strengthen the reliability of the accountability chain; (iii) review the increased use of pre-financing; and (iv) create an effective sanctioning mechanism in the area of cohesion policy so that the commission can fully assume its final and overall responsibility for budget implementation. finally, in the context of the economic and financial crisis the union is going through, it is important that eu budgetary policies take due account of the concrete situation of the states, especially when it affects not only the union's own resources but also co-financing and the need for financial support provided under the treaties and the eff (and the esm).
in writing. - the present report, by christofer fjellner, is on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2010, section iii commission and executive agencies. in accordance with article 17 (1) of the treaty on european union, the commission implements the budget and manages the programmes in liaison with the member states and in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. in view of the crisis we are going through, i believe it is essential that the eu stands out as an example of good management of public money, a sine qua non for maintaining the triple a rating. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject. in these terms, and taking account of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committees concerned, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - there are several points in this report and the resolution attached to it with which we do not agree. the rapporteur casts suspicion and accusations on the member states, undermines their role in budget implementation, disregards some fundamental principles of the sovereignty of these states and advocates a tight 'police' of the commission on the member states. the report stresses that the management of community funds - the european regional development fund, the cohesion fund, the european social fund, energy and transport - has been subject to an increase in the error rate, which is caused by the mismanagement of these funds by the member states. the commission should therefore be able to impose sanctions on member states which do not comply with the directive, 'through various instruments'. these instruments range from the interruption and suspension of the payment of funds to the defence of the need for external audits. it further stresses that these payments can only be resumed 'if adequate and sufficient audit data collected on the spot prove that the deficiencies have been remedied'. at the same time, it does not go into the causes of various failures, as it could and should.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on discharge to the general budget of the eu is appropriate.
in writing. − the new chapter 8 of the annual report, entitled 'the eu budget: delivering results', introduces a new paradigm which i believe is fundamental to european public accounts. such a policy, combined with reliable data, is the basis for good management. considering that europe is facing a serious budgetary and financial crisis, which could give rise to a crisis of confidence in the union, and that it is of vital importance that the union stands out as an example of good public management, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thereby giving discharge to the accounts for 2010, following the recommendations made by the european parliament.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the european court of auditors publishes more than a dozen so-called special reports each year which focus on very specific policy issues on a variety of topics. in preparing these reports, the court uses the performance audit approach to analyse the effectiveness of certain policies and programmes. the recommendations of the court should be taken into account by the european council and the parliament during their discharge exercise.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by giving the european commission discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors' special reports are of great importance to parliament in its role as discharge authority.
in writing. - i welcome the court of auditors' assessment in these special reports, since it is through them that we can have clearer access to information on the implementation of the funds and the need to reassess or adapt programmes and projects. all information now provided by the court must be taken into account by the union, in particular by the commission, as the main body for the implementation and management of the union budget.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by christofer fjellner, concerns the examination of the court of auditors' special reports in the context of the discharge to the commission for the financial year 2010. the european court of auditors must submit an annual report on the financial year to the european parliament. the court of auditors' special reports provide the ep with information on the implementation of funds, enabling it to exercise its role as discharge authority. after examining it, i agree with the rapporteur that the commission should make changes to the procedures, in accordance with the proposals contained in the reports, and inform the european parliament, in order to ensure legal certainty for all those involved in the reports. in these terms, and taking account of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committees concerned, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and by all bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. the court of auditors has drawn up several special reports for the committee, according to which, in general, with a few exceptions, and judging by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are using the funds made available correctly and meeting the proposed objectives. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the court of auditors' special reports provide information on issues of concern to it relating to the implementation of the funds, which are therefore useful to parliament in the exercise of its function as discharge authority. i would stress that the european anti-fraud office (olaf) is making greater use of its investigative powers, for example by carrying out on-the-spot checks and interviews or by concentrating on the most serious and complex cases. for this reason in particular, but on the basis of the recommendations made by the european parliament, and on the basis of the recommendation of the council and the reports of the european court of auditors, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thus discharging the accounts for 2010.
in writing. - i approve this report, which focuses particularly on the discharge for 2010, and in particular on the implementation of the budget for that year. considerable detail has been added on the financing of parliament's prizes over three years. on tv europarl, it is important to avoid the scheme being closed and to return to the original call of the rapporteur for a cost-benefit analysis in the first instance. finally, it is important to welcome the initiative to examine possible cost reductions in parliament, as requested in the resolution on the 2013 budget. the european parliament, as the european institution directly representing the european citizens, has a duty to save at a time when the european citizens themselves are feeling strong economic and financial constraints.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by giving the president of the european parliament discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has increased parliament's powers and workload, and in this respect it is worth highlighting the effort of this institution to overcome budgetary challenges by adopting concrete measures to improve cost-effectiveness.
in writing. - i would like to welcome the court of auditors' conclusion that the payments are free from material error and that no material shortcomings have been identified in the assessment of the compatibility of the supervisory and control systems with the provisions of the financial regulation. this report provides a comprehensive analysis of parliament's budgetary situation, highlighting some important issues that need to be reviewed in relation to the functioning of parliament, security and infrastructure management. but i would point out again that the time of the clearance of accounts is not the time to propose or discuss budgetary measures. on the contrary, i believe that the european parliament should start to reflect in depth on its operating and management model, without giving in to demagoguery and by achieving an efficient, reasonable and thrifty management of the resources allocated to it.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by mr boguslaw liberadzki, deals with the discharge for implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section i european parliament. the court of auditors' audit of the ep's administrative expenditure in 2010 concluded that all institutions had satisfactorily complied with the supervisory and control procedures required by the financial regulation. while i believe that there is a need to improve the transparency rules so that it is very clear which institutions, whether natural, legal or public, are benefiting from eu funds, and whereas the secretary-general certified on 16 june 2011 that the ep budget has been correctly implemented and that the principles of sound financial management have been respected, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the rapporteur considers that there is sufficient assurance that the european parliament's budget has been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management. the report does, however, make some specific criticisms and suggestions which deserve our general agreement, notwithstanding some pointed differences - which we noted during the votes - and a different view on some of the issues included in the resolution. the references to savings made possible by a greater rationalisation of missions between the three workplaces (brussels, luxembourg and strasbourg); the delays and considerable cost increases of the new ep visitor centre; the costs and lack of clarity associated with the house of european history project; and travel agency costs are noteworthy. the rapporteur proposes abolishing prizes such as the lux prize for cinema, and also refers to the end of the journalism prize, but says nothing about the future of the sakharov prize - which is the prize with the highest expenditure value and which since 2009 has increased by €352 348.
in writing. − all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and by all bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on discharge to the general budget of the eu is appropriate.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' audit of administrative expenditure in 2010, which concluded that all institutions had satisfactorily implemented the supervisory and control systems required by the financial regulation and that 93% of the 58 payments audited were free from material error, and to the fact that the secretary-general of the european parliament, on 16 june 2011, certified that he was sufficiently satisfied that the budget of the european parliament had been implemented in accordance with the principles of sound financial management and that the control system provided the necessary guarantees as regards the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions, i voted in favour of the clearance of the accounts presented by the european commission and thus discharge the accounts for 2010. in fact, by giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament declares that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and terminates its budget. if the implementation did not comply with the existing rules, the european parliament could refuse or postpone discharge, which did not happen in the present case where the eu accounts for the financial year 2010 were discharged, section i european parliament.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that the main concern should be the entry of the european development funds in the budget of the european union, since, as they are not integrated, it is not possible to analyse them fully, and in the same way as other expenditure. the message should be the call to the european commission to integrate the budget of these funds into the discharge report. the principle of transparency should never be imposed on the european union, which aims to be a political bloc promoting a highly advanced democracy and setting an example to the world.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report approving the discharge for the 2010 financial year of the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds. these funds are the union's financial instruments for development cooperation with african, caribbean and pacific countries. the main objectives of the cotonou agreement with the acp countries and overseas territories (octs) are poverty reduction and gradual integration into the world economy.
in writing. - the european development funds (edf) remain the main instrument available to the union for the purpose of providing development aid to the acp states and, despite the repeated requests of this parliament, they are still not integrated into the commission's budget. it is therefore urgent that it be integrated into the union budget in order to allow for greater democratic control, accountability and transparency of funding. it should be noted that the court of auditors considers that coding errors are still very frequent and although they did not have a significant influence on the 2010 annual accounts, they may affect the reliability of europeaid's financial management data. the commission should therefore continue its efforts to improve europeaid's control and supervision systems in order to achieve positive results in terms of accountability, efficiency and effectiveness.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by martin ehrenhauser, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the eighth, ninth and tenth european development funds (edfs) for the financial year 2010. the edf is the european union's main financial instrument for development cooperation with the african, caribbean and pacific states. i welcome the good financial execution of the edf, especially in terms of gross payments and the commitment rate of close to 50%, but i cannot help but express my concern, in the light of the court of auditors' report, about the way in which budget support payments were processed in the first half of 2011. in these terms, and in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committees concerned, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the report criticises the fact that the edf - the european development fund, the eu's main financial instrument for development cooperation - is not integrated into the eu budget. the rapporteur calls on the commission to propose including the edf in the eu budget when the next multiannual financial framework is discussed - which is not the case with the commission's current proposal. this amendment has been long sought, providing the eu's development cooperation and aid policy with more robust and predictable means, as well as being more easily scrutinised by the institutions responsible for approving the budget. however, we do not follow the references to the european external action service, considering that it should "fully exercise its political role by actively participating in the development of the political objectives of the beneficiary countries (...) ". nor can we accept paragraphs which say that 'stable and effective trade relations in accordance with the principles of the wto are crucial' for the social and economic development of developing countries, calling on the commission to resolve outstanding disputes over the economic partnership and free trade agreements between the eu and the acp region.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be subject to strict supervision by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on discharge for the 8th, 9th and 10th european development funds is appropriate.
in writing. − the european court of auditors' reports on the european development funds for the financial year 2010 and the council's recommendation conclude that the final annual accounts of the 8th, 9th and 10th edfs faithfully reflect, in all material respects, the financial situation of the edfs as at 31 december 2010. in these terms, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thus discharging the 2010 accounts.
in writing. - i approve this report despite the difficulty of working on this dossier, because once again the council refused to provide any information in response to written questions. these mainly focused on the issues of transfers between budgets and whether funds allocated for a single purpose had been used for other purposes. the court of auditors report criticized the council for diverting interpretation/translation funds to the residence palace project and the council's response was that it had stopped this practice. the european parliament wants the various institutions to be specified individually in the negotiations on the financial regulation in order to avoid this ambiguity in the future and to give parliament a firm mandate as a separate discharge for each body. inevitably, the council is not prepared to accept this clarification. the european parliament scrutinises its own budget implementation and wants to get to the point where there is an equivalent procedure for all the institutions, to avoid council expenditure. parliament's services have provided the information requested by the committee responsible, enabling that institution to take an informed decision on discharge. we want to be able to make a decision on the discharge of the council in a conscious way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report approving the discharge to be given to the council in respect of the implementation of the general budget for the financial year 2010. i regret, however, the council's refusal to take part in the official meetings of the committee on budgetary control concerning discharge to the council. i reiterate my position that european taxpayers have the right to have the union's budget subject to strict public control.
in writing. - in the interests of transparency and the rigour required of citizens, i do not consider the council to be exempt from its responsibility to be accountable to the public for the funds placed at its disposal. i therefore support the rapporteur's decision to postpone the decision on the discharge to the council until the council has provided the information and documents requested by the rapporteur. finally, i regret that once again there is a persistent lack of cooperation between the council and parliament in the control of the implementation of its budget.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by inés ayala sender, deals with the discharge for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section ii council. the council of the european union is the institution whose task is to adopt european union legislation, coordinate economic policies, ensure cooperation between courts and police forces, sign agreements between the eu and third countries, approve the eu's annual budget and define external and defence policies. the council, notwithstanding its powers, also has obligations, particularly as regards interinstitutional cooperation with the european parliament, especially as regards the supervision of budget implementation, and it cannot fail to provide the clarifications requested by members. in these terms, and taking into account the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committees concerned, i am voting in favour of this report which seeks to postpone the granting of discharge to the secretary-general of the council for the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. the rapporteur proposes to postpone the decision on discharge to the council budget, taking into account the possibility of using the two deadlines of the discharge calendar, with the aim, in this case, of exploring the possibility of an agreement with the presidency-in-office. this delay is based on the council's lack of transparency and accountability, which is the reason for the longstanding differences between the two institutions - parliament and council. the whole report thus criticises the council's position, which refuses to send documents on budget implementation, to convene or to answer parliament's questions on this subject. parliament is thus not aware of the council's accounts - despite its participation in the discharge procedure. the rapporteur also proposes a series of questions to be answered by the council on administrative matters (also related to the eeas), cfsp/csdp missions, and others. we supported this report.
in writing. − all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and by all bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. however, as far as the council is concerned, there are some gaps in the court of auditors' report which lead us to postpone the discharge procedure for the 2010 budget.
in writing. − interinstitutional cooperation between parliament and the council is of the utmost importance in terms of monitoring the implementation of the union budget. i therefore endorse the recommendations made by the european parliament and reiterate the request to the council to reply to the questionnaire sent to it by parliament. in these terms, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts, section ii council.
in writing. − i welcome this report, and welcome the initiative of the court of justice which, at the end of march 2011, presented to the two branches of the legislative authority a proposal for the reform of its statute (the reform provides, inter alia, for the appointment of 12 additional judges to the court and this initiative should be conducted with the best possible cost-benefit ratio of implementation). i hope that the structural measures can be adopted at the beginning of 2012, with a view to their implementation as soon as possible during the same year. i believe that the annual activity report should also give a comprehensive picture of all the human resources available to the court of justice, with their breakdown by category, grade, sex, participation in vocational training and nationality. however, i would like to congratulate the court of justice on the comprehensive information it has given on the management of its staff in its annual activity report and in its replies to parliament's supplementary questions on this subject.
in writing. - report by mrs inés ayala sender on the discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section iv court of justice [com (2011) 0473 - c7-0259/2011 - 2011/2204 (dec) ] i voted in favour of this report approving the discharge to the court of justice for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010. i support the initiative of the court of justice because it has put forward a proposal for the reform of its statute which will lead to a better cost-benefit ratio.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the court of auditors has concluded, on the basis of its audit work, that the payments for the financial year ended 31 december 2010 relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies are, as a whole, free from material error, and further states that it has no observations to make on the court of justice.
in writing. - the report in question, by inés ayala sender, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section iv court of justice. the court of justice is responsible for ensuring that legislation adopted by the european parliament is applied in the same way in all the member states. it also resolves disputes between national governments and the european institutions, as well as conflicts between companies, individuals and organisations that feel they have been wronged by a european institution. the implementation of the court's budget is not flawed. i therefore vote in favour of this report, taking into account the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, in favour of giving the registrar of the court of justice a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. the rapporteur proposes to give the court of justice discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010, which means that the committee has respected european rules on budget implementation and is closing its budget. the court of auditors has made its report and found that there are no significant errors. there is one aspect which deserves to be highlighted, however, and which is contained in the resolution adopted: the number of cases before the court of justice has increased sharply. in 2010, there were 631. this development calls for a reflection on the evolution of the integration process itself. the rider on national sovereignty has expression in multiple spheres, and also in the legal sphere. the new (old in the ideology that inspired it) treaty on stability, coordination and governance of the economic and monetary union is symptomatic of the attack on the sovereignty of national institutions, also at the legal level, by the unusual powers it confers on the court of justice, which may further accentuate the development mentioned by the rapporteur. an unacceptable path that we reject and will fight.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds allocated correctly and meeting the objectives set. that is why i voted in favour of the court of justice's report.
in writing. − in 2010, the court of justice of the eu's commitment appropriations were 97.9% implemented. in addition to this indicator, the implementation of the recommendations made in previous years in the interests of transparency is noteworthy. i would also like to stress the development of the e-curia application, which allows for the electronic delivery and notification of procedural documents, and i hope that more member states will be able to join this system. in these terms, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the accounts for the financial year 2010, section iv court of justice.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the draft future financial regulation provides that the agencies may appoint, after consulting the court of auditors, an independent external auditor who will verify that the implementation of the agency's budget is in line with the provisions of the financial regulation. i also welcome the initiative of the court of auditors, which launched a pilot project with the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) in 2011. however, it is preferable to avoid misunderstandings in the future, such as that which has arisen in the case of the report now under way on the discharge of the agencies, because of the disparity between the expectations expressed by the head of the court of auditors at the beginning of the financial year and the final result presented to parliament. i urge the court of auditors to carry out an in-depth assessment of the council's supervisory and control systems before the end of 2012, as referred to in parliament's 2009 discharge resolution (no 8).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report as it gives the court of auditors discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010. however, it is requested that the number and type of internal audits carried out be better summarised and that future audits take into account the performance indicators and the objectives set.
in writing. - i welcome the analysis carried out by an external consultant which states that the financial statements of the european court of auditors give a true and fair view of its financial situation and that the funds are being used correctly for their intended purpose.
in writing. - the report under examination, by inés ayala sender, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section v court of auditors. the court of auditors, set up in 1975 and based in luxembourg, is responsible for monitoring the eu's finances, i.e. how public money is used. the external audit of the court of auditors' financial statements in 2010 found that they give a true and fair view of the court of auditors' financial situation in december 2010. while i agree with the rapporteur's recommendations that it would be interesting if future audits also looked at performance indicators and targets, i do not think that the court's budget implementation is flawed. i therefore, and taking into account the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, vote in favour of this report, in favour of giving the secretary-general of the court of auditors a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - the court of auditors, as the main body responsible for the supervision of all the european institutions, must also be subject to supervision. it is noted that the audit carried out by an external body was largely positive. the internal audit report was also positive, with most of its recommendations accepted and applied in advance in several action plans. hence my vote.
in writing. − the audit of the court of auditors' financial statements in 2010 was carried out by an external auditor, but i support the rapporteur's request that this audit also cover the performance indicators and targets for the next financial year. for these reasons, and noting that the number of seats allocated to audit tasks at the court of auditors has increased by 6%, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts, section v court of auditors.
in writing. - i approve this report, and welcome the results of the mid-term evaluation report on the functioning of the administrative cooperation agreement between the committee of the regions and the eesc. i believe that the creation of joint services has enabled budgetary savings to be made by the two committees and it is desirable that the committees should implement the recommendations in the staff sectors (greater harmonisation of the rules), social and medical services and internal services. i would like to conclude by saying that there is a need for greater compatibility between the priority budget lines of the two committees, which will lead to increased savings and a further strengthening of interinstitutional cooperation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by giving the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee (eesc) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. in the light of what parliament has done, the eesc should make further efforts in its management to limit the increase in its budget in the coming years to the minimum necessary.
in writing. − the budget implementation of the esc in 2010 was 98% and the court of auditors concludes that, overall, the payments for the year ended 31 december 2010 relating to administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies do not contain significant errors. the esc should, however, urgently undertake an overall review of its expenditure in all areas of activity to ensure that all expenditure is justified in terms of profitability and to identify any savings which could reduce the pressure on the budget in the light of the current situation.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by inés ayala sender, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2010, section vi economic and social committee. the european economic and social committee (eesc) is an advisory body made up of representatives of employers, employees and interest groups (trade unions) whose task is to give opinions to the council, the commission and the european parliament. it issues about 170 opinions a year. while i agree with the rapporteur's recommendations to improve the quality of the summary of the internal audit service's activities, i welcome the high rate of budget implementation and welcome the eesc's decision of 24 april 2012 to carry out an evaluation of its work, considering that the eesc's budget implementation is not flawed. for this reason, and in the light of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of this report, which calls for the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee to be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the committee's budget for 2010.
in writing. - parliament gave the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee (eesc) discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010, which means that the committee has complied with the european regulations on the implementation of the budget and that its budget has been closed. the resolution accompanying this act states that the implementation rate of the 2009 budget appropriations was 98%, with 70% for staff and 30% for operating expenditure, buildings, furniture and equipment. the court of auditors has made its report and found that there are no significant errors. the eesc bureau also decided to reform the system of reimbursement of expenses, including travel expenses for its members, which will now be reimbursed solely on the basis of actual expenses, as it was surprised by the high number of long-haul flights. the report finds it worrying that '12.3% of the interpretation services requested were cancelled'. we abstained on the discharge decision because of the ambiguities mentioned, but we voted in favour of the resolution setting out the concerns and suggestions for improving the activities and performance of this committee.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions and as assessed by the known audits, it can be said that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the proposed objectives. that is why i am voting in favour of the report by the economic and social committee.
in writing. − the european economic and social committee (eesc) had a 98% implementation rate of its appropriations in 2010. the court of auditors, in its annual report, on the basis of its audit work, considered that, overall, the payments for the year ended 31 december 2010 concerning administrative expenditure were free from material error. on the basis of these data and the council's recommendation, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby discharging the 2010 accounts, section vi european economic and social committee.
in writing. - in this report, parliament grants the secretary-general of the european economic and social committee (eesc) discharge for the implementation of the committee's budget for the financial year 2010, which means that the committee has complied with the european regulations on budget implementation and that the committee's budget has been closed. the resolution accompanying this act states that the implementation rate of the 2009 budget appropriations was 98%, of which 70% was for staff and 30% for operating expenditure, buildings, furniture and equipment. the court of auditors has made its report and found that there are no significant errors. the eesc bureau also decided to reform the system of reimbursement of expenses, which includes travel expenses for its members, and to reimburse them solely on the basis of actual expenses, as they were surprised by the high number of long-haul flights. the report finds it worrying that 12.3% of the interpretation services requested were cancelled. because of the ambiguities mentioned, we abstained from the decision to grant discharge. however, we voted in favour of the resolution which raises concerns and suggestions for improving the committee's activities and performance.
in writing. - i approve this report, and welcome the results of the mid-term evaluation report on the functioning of the administrative cooperation agreement between the committee of the regions and the eesc. i believe that the creation of joint services has enabled the two committees to save money and it is desirable that they implement the recommendations in the staff sectors (greater harmonisation of the rules), social and medical services and internal services. i would like to conclude by saying that there is a need for greater compatibility between the priority budget lines of the two committees, which will lead to increased savings and further strengthening of interinstitutional cooperation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report approving the discharge for implementation of the committee of the regions' budget for the financial year 2010. the decision of the cor's bureau to make the declarations of financial interests of members of all the institutions available on the internet in the name of transparency should be noted and welcomed.
in writing. − in 2010, the court of auditors found errors in the recruitment of an official and the award of contracts for the interpretation service, which the cor explained to the committee on budgetary control in a manner that the rapporteur found satisfactory. i welcome the excellent performance and high quality of the committee of the regions' annual activity reports. it is important, however, that the cor continues to implement its plan to improve internal controls in order to allow for more effective budget implementation.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by inés ayala sender, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2010, section vii committee of the regions (cor). the committee of the regions, based in brussels, is an advisory body of the council, the commission and the european parliament representing local and regional authorities in the eu and is to be consulted on matters relating to local and regional government, such as employment, the environment, education and public health. i welcome the fact that the committee of the regions and the european economic and social committee were awarded emas (community eco-management and audit scheme) certification on 27 december 2011, as proof of their performance efficiency, and i congratulate the cor on its improvement plan, drawn up following the process of self-assessment of its organisation's management. in the light of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control and because i consider that the committee of the regions' budget implementation is not flawed, i am voting in favour of this report to give the secretary-general of the committee of the regions a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions and as assessed by the known audits, it can be said that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the proposed objectives. that is why i am voting in favour of the report by the committee of the regions.
in writing. − the committee of the regions has drawn up an improvement plan following the self-evaluation of its organisation's management (caf7: common evaluation framework), which aims, among other things, to examine the possible increase in efficiency, including in terms of possible reduction of travel costs, which it offers, in relation to the committee of the regions' policy mechanisms using videoconferencing. these and other measures, together with the council's favourable recommendation and the reports of the european court of auditors, led me to approve the accounts presented by the european commission and thus to give discharge to the 2010 accounts, section vii committee of the regions.
in writing. − i approve of this report and appreciate the fact that the ombudsman has set key performance indicators in the 2010 action plan, as well as an evaluation panel, which make the service's efforts measurable, thanks to the benchmarking system. i am also pleased with the progress made during the year. i would remind you that the annual report on the ombudsman's activities in 2010 was recently the subject of an own-initiative report which parliament adopted on 27 october 2011. the european parliament therefore does not intend to add any further comments. the ep also wants the annual report on the ombudsman's activities in 2011 to include, where appropriate, a chapter on the follow-up to parliament's discharge resolution and to provide a comprehensive overview of the ombudsman's human resources, broken down by category, grade, sex, participation in vocational training and nationality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report approving the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european ombudsman for the financial year 2010. we should welcome the progress made by the ombudsman, who set key performance indicators in the 2010 action plan and also set up an evaluation panel, which makes the service's efforts measurable through a benchmarking system.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusions of the court of auditors' audit in its annual report, which have nothing to say about the european ombudsman.
in writing. - the present report, by inés ayala sender, is on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2010, section viii european ombudsman. the european ombudsman, whose office is entirely independent of any government or body, investigates complaints against european institutions, bodies, offices and agencies when they fail to comply with the law or its guiding principles. the court of auditors, in its 2010 report, found no comments to make to the european ombudsman; i therefore take the view that the ombudsman's budget implementation is not flawed. the internal audit carried out in 2010 following the observations made in 2009 must therefore have contributed a lot to this. for this reason, and in the light of the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i am voting in favour of this report to give the european ombudsman discharge in respect of the implementation of his budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions and as judged by the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are using the funds allocated correctly and are meeting the objectives set. that is why i am voting in favour of the european ombudsman's report.
in writing. − in the light of the observations made in 2009, the european ombudsman underwent an audit which concluded that the management and control system was effective, subject to the implementation of some concrete actions. moreover, in its 2010 annual report, the court of auditors found that it had no comments to make on the european ombudsman. in these terms, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby discharging the 2010 accounts, section viii european ombudsman.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting with the fact that i welcome the court of auditors' conclusion that, overall, the accounts of the european data protection supervisor (edps) for payments and other expenditure for the year ended 31 december 2010 are free from material error and that the supervisory and control systems for administrative and other expenditure have been effective in ensuring the regularity of payments. it is important to bear in mind the opinion of the court of auditors on the organisation of an internal competition and the edps's reply. the calls for tenders organised by the european personnel selection office should remain the norm for recruitment of staff and calls on the edps to strengthen its human resources planning in order to avoid similar situations in the future. the measures taken should be supported for the timely monitoring of the supporting documents of the individual situation of the staff members of the edps for the purposes of social benefits.
in writing. − a clear and coherent legal framework for the protection of personal data is essential to ensure that every individual can have his or her fundamental rights and freedoms, including his or her right to privacy, respected throughout the eu. the european data protection supervisor is the independent body with supervisory powers whose primary objective is to ensure that the community institutions and bodies respect the right to privacy and data protection when processing personal data and developing new policies. in practice, the activities of the authority can be divided into three main strands: supervision, consultation and cooperation. it is therefore essential that it has sufficient resources to carry out its mandate in the most appropriate way. i supported this report on the basis of the court of auditors' findings that the accounts of the european data protection supervisor for payments and other expenditure for the year ended 31 december 2010 as a whole are free from material error and that the systems for the supervision and control of administrative and other expenditure have been effective in ensuring the regularity of payments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it grants the discharge for implementation of the general budget for the financial year 2010 to the european data protection supervisor. i believe that the discharge for the implementation of the edps's budget should continue to be based on its performance throughout the year. the edps is requested to report on the follow-up to parliament's recommendations in its annual activity report.
in writing. - i welcome the conclusions of the court of auditors' audit, which states in its annual report that the audit found no material errors. i support the report in suggesting that the edps should prepare annual budgets corresponding to its needs (since in 2010 only 75% of title 1 was used) and that it should strive for better budget implementation in the future.
in writing. − due to information highways, citizens' personal and professional data circulate vertiginously in the corridors of the internet. the european data protection supervisor (edps), established in 2001, aims to ensure that all eu institutions and bodies respect the right to privacy of individuals when using their personal data. the report under examination, drawn up by inés ayala sender, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section ix european data protection supervisor. the court of auditors, in its 2010 report, concluded that the payments for the year ended 31 december 2010 were free from errors. the recommendations of the court of auditors and the commission for the financial year 2009 had also been implemented. following these recommendations, a number of improvements were made, particularly in recruitment. therefore, and taking into account the opinion of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i am voting in favour of this report to give the edps discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions and as assessed by the known audits, it can be said that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the proposed objectives. that is why i am voting in favour of the report by the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. - having regard to the council recommendation and the reports of the european court of auditors, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby discharging the 2010 accounts of the european data protection supervisor.
in writing. − i approve this report, welcoming the fact that the court of auditors has been able to obtain reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 of all the agencies operating in the area of freedom, security and justice are reliable in all material respects and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. however, i regret that most of these agencies have high levels of transition of appropriations and that some agencies still had a high vacancy rate in 2010. the commission, in the context of the review of decision 2009/371/jha, should examine the possibility of merging the european police college with the european police office in order to improve the allocation of resources and reduce administrative running costs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report approving the discharge for the implementation of the general budget for 24 european union agencies. these agencies carry out specific tasks of a technical, scientific or administrative nature and are decentralised eu bodies, vital for implementing the objectives and results of union policies. i welcome the fact that the court of auditors has been able to obtain reasonable assurances that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 of all the agencies operating in the area of freedom, security and justice are reliable in all material respects and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. − the european union agencies are of enormous importance in their institutional and operational architecture. their financial health should therefore be a constant concern for policy-makers who should not be satisfied with pre-existing management and control models but seek to improve them wherever possible. transparency in action and expenditure, effective management of resources and staff, and accountability must be essential and unavoidable elements in this process of constant improvement and demand that is desired to be dynamic and efficient.
in writing. − the report under review, by monica luisa macovei, is on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european union agencies for the financial year 2010: performance, financial management and control of the eu agencies. the european union, in order to support the member states and their citizens, has set up specialised and decentralised agencies to respond to europe's territorial dimension and to meet new technical, scientific and legal competences. the number of eu agencies has increased exponentially from 3 in 2000 to 24 in 2011, and their costs have almost doubled from 2007 to 2010. i welcome the establishment and work of the interinstitutional working group on agencies, whose objective is to review their role, position, structure, operation, supervision and management. i agree with the rapporteur that in the crisis we are living in, we need to be sure that the almost €1.7 billion that the agencies cost every year is absolutely necessary and justified by improving the quality of life of eu citizens.
in writing. − this report is critical of the way some of the european union agencies are run and covers everything from news reports of conflicts of interest in some agencies to the substantial increase in their budget. one of the main criticisms focuses on the european parliament's request to the court of auditors for a presentation and special report on the comparative cost analysis of eu agencies, which has not yet been met. in order to achieve better management of budgetary resources, the commission is asked to stop increasing the budgets of the agencies, even considering reducing the contribution from the eu budget. i would like to say that i am very pleased that the commission has taken the initiative to propose a budget for the european union for the period from 1 january to 31 december. in particular, we do not support the position that the reduction should be made 'in particular' in the agencies whose main activity is research. the proposed objective of this reduction is not to be separated from the intention of making these institutions (which should not pursue any other objectives than those of undoubted public interest) even more dependent on private interests.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions and as assessed by the known audits, it can be said that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the proposed objectives. however, eu agencies should do their utmost to reduce administrative costs, including by sharing them.
in writing. − i support the request to the commission to provide the discharge authority with consolidated information on the total annual funding per agency on an annual basis, as in the case of the preparation of the general budget of the union. on the basis of this recommendation and the reports of the european court of auditors, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby giving discharge to the 2010 accounts relating to the performance, financial management and control of the european union agencies.
in writing. - i approve of this report, although i would point out that of the 12 very important recommendations of the internal audit service (ias), the centre rejected the recommendation on financial reporting. the centre shall be requested to inform the discharge authority of the reasons for this decision.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report giving discharge to the director of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union in respect of the implementation of the centre's budget for the financial year 2010, as the court of auditors stated that it had obtained sufficient assurances that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. - translation is one of the instruments without which multilingualism and equal access to the european institutions by citizens would not be ensured. the translation centre for the bodies of the european union plays this important role vis-à-vis the specialised and decentralised agencies of the european union and has been increasing its services. i hope that it will continue to have the means to carry out its mission and that it will do so in accordance with its budgets and the rules of good administration.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2010. the translation centre for the bodies of the european union (cdt), established in 1994 and based in luxembourg, is responsible for providing the translation services required for the functioning of the various eu agencies. it also takes an active part in the work of the interinstitutional committee on translation and interpretation. the court of auditors stated that it had sufficient assurances that the annual accounts of the cor for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and sound. therefore, and in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and notwithstanding the recommendations of the rapporteur, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the translation centre of the eu bodies discharge in respect of the implementation of her budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions and as assessed by the known audits, it can be said that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the proposed objectives. that is why i am voting in favour of the report by the translation centre for the bodies of the european union.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' statement that it has obtained sufficient assurances that the annual accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, i voted in favour of the clearance of the accounts of the translation centre for the bodies of the european union presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the accounts for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i approve this report, noting the findings of the rac that the 2010 audit plan of the jrc provided for several ex post audits and audits of contract award procedures, in particular for the purpose of studying the procedures for awarding contracts and granting grants. it should also be noted that following an audit by the cai of the grant award procedures, the centre recovered amounts paid to national grant beneficiaries totalling eur 23 647.67. expresses concern that the cai left the centre on 31 august 2010, considering that the cai reports could further improve the internal control measures in the area of procurement and grant award procedures. however, i agree with the centre's observations that the iac's functions are currently performed by external contractors (e.g. an audit of the centre's financial software (fibus) was contracted and completed in 2011) or by internal project teams.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by approving the closure of the accounts of the european centre for the development of training for the financial year 2010. i am pleased to note that the centre has made the gantt charts available as requested by the discharge authority. these diagrams concisely define the time spent by each staff member on a project and encourage a results-oriented approach.
in writing. − the crisis felt across europe makes even more evident the need to persist in the continuing training of workers and to adapt their skills to the requirements of an increasingly globalised and competitive labour market. the european centre for the development of vocational training plays a relevant role in this joint effort and should therefore be supported and adequately equipped to pursue its objectives. i record the reliability and regularity of your accounts.
in writing. - the report under examination, drawn up by monica luisa macovei, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2010 the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) is an agency whose objective is to promote and develop vocational education and training in the eu by providing information and analysis on policies, research and practice in the field of vocational education and training. the court of auditors, in its report, confirms that cedefop's annual accounts accurately reflect the centre's actual financial situation at 31 december 20102 and that the accounts are in accordance with the financial regulations. for this reason, and in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of cedefop a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european centre for the development of vocational training (cedefop) is appropriate.
in writing. − the european chemicals agency's good performance in the application of union chemicals legislation is noteworthy. the other comments accompanying the discharge decision are of a cross-cutting nature and, therefore, on the basis of the council recommendation and the reports of the european court of auditors, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thus giving discharge to the accounts of the european chemicals agency for 2010.
in writing. − i approve this report, highlighting the conclusions of the final report on the academy's five-year external evaluation which concluded that there are compelling arguments in favour of a change in the academy. i also welcome the decision of the academy's board of directors, 24/2011/gb, of 15 june 2011, to abolish the existing committees as of 1 january 2012, thus reducing the vertical overlap between different structures. i stress the need for the academy's response to its rules of procedure which have been amended to limit the number of regular meetings of the board to one per presidency and to restrict the size of national delegations, as member states are encouraged to send a maximum of two delegates to each meeting;
in writing. − police cooperation is essential if european citizens are to be provided with a high level of security within the e.l.s.j. the aim of the academy's establishment in 2001 was to support the development of a european approach to the main problems facing the fight against crossborder crime, its prevention and the maintenance of public order and security by providing training and continuous development of police services, by creating common quality standards for their methods and criteria of action, in order to ensure a minimum level of training for law enforcement services throughout the eu. both the academy and europol have become community bodies with similar areas of intervention and complementary activities, and it may be appropriate to examine the pros and cons of a possible merger between the two agencies. this discussion should take place within the commission with competence in this area - libe - on the basis of an impact assessment, so that a decision can be taken which is substantiated and which best serves the interests of our citizens. this type of decision can never be made in the course of a discharge procedure without the agreement of the parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report giving discharge to the director of the european police college for the implementation of the college's budget for the financial year 2010. the court of auditors and the sai are requested to provide assurances to parliament that the academy has made effective improvements in budgetary consumption and that the implementation of the 2011 budget has been optimised and that all programming and monitoring instruments are operational.
in writing. − in a context of globalisation of criminal activity, the attempt to strengthen cooperation between police training institutions is justified. in addition to the exchange of experience and information, this desirable more direct contact can help to create a closer relationship between the staff of each police force and thus speed up their ability to respond jointly and in a timely manner to the many challenges facing them. merging with europol could help to improve the achievement of these objectives, reduce duplication and concentrate efforts and resources on the same crime-fighting effort. i look forward to the commission's assessment of this possibility.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european police college for the financial year 2010. the european police college (cepol) brings together senior police officials from across europe and aims to promote crossborder cooperation in the fight against crime and the maintenance of public order and security. cepol's performance has been the subject of several criticisms in relation to the discharge of accounts for previous years, with one instance of a refusal to discharge the accounts for 2009. i share the view that the academy's expenses are high in relation to its activities and that it is therefore necessary to continue its restructuring. for this reason, and in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the european police college a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european police college (cepol) is appropriate.
in writing. − whereas the court of auditors, in its report on the academy's annual accounts for the financial year 2010, stated for the first time that, since the academy became an agency, it had issued an unqualified opinion on the reliability of the accounts and on the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions; whereas i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby giving discharge to cepol's 2010 accounts;
in writing. − i approve this report, considering it necessary for the agency to adopt the necessary measures with regard to the issues of access to abac by the authorising officers by delegation (aogs), late payments, the policy for the treatment of exceptions and the establishment of a central exception register. however, the agency should inform the discharge authority of the measures taken and the results obtained. it is therefore appropriate that the agency immediately adopts measures in relation to the items mentioned below and informs the discharge authority of the measures taken, in particular on the implementation of a risk management system and the introduction of regular analyses of the cst.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report approving the discharge to be given to the executive director of the community fisheries control agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. the importance of the tasks of the community fisheries control agency should be emphasized and i welcome the efficient performance of those tasks, the court of auditors is, however, requested to continue to examine the agency's recruitment and public procurement procedures.
in writing. − as a native of a country with a history closely linked to the sea and hence to fishing, i understand the need for the european union to have a community fisheries control agency which, among other responsibilities, coordinates the fight against illegal fishing, which threatens the sustainability of this activity, the employment of fishermen who comply with the rules on catching, transporting and conditioning fish and the marine ecosystems themselves. the european union needs a community fisheries control agency well equipped with resources and staff and managed in an increasingly transparent and effective manner.
in writing. the report under consideration, drawn up by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge for implementation of the budget of the community fisheries control agency (cfp) for the financial year 2010. accp, based in vigo, galicia spain, was set up in 2005 to strengthen the uniformity and enforcement of eu law. to this end, it will ensure that all member states apply the rules of the common fisheries policy in the same way. it is also responsible for training inspectors in accordance with new inspection techniques and methodologies. while the agency has control mechanisms such as the internal audit service and the internal control system, as recommended when the 2009 discharge was approved, i agree with the rapporteur that it is necessary to improve its annual work programme by including specific, easily measurable objectives. therefore, and taking into account the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on fisheries, i am voting in favour of this report to give the executive director of the community fisheries control agency a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the community fisheries control agency is appropriate.
in writing. − i stress the importance of the agency's tasks and welcome the efficient and effective performance of these tasks, which the committee on fisheries of the european parliament had the opportunity to observe during its visit to the agency in june 2010 and which it will inspect again during its next visit in 2012. in these circumstances, and on the basis of the council's recommendation and the reports of the european court of auditors, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thus discharging the 2010 accounts of the community fisheries control agency.
in writing. − i approve this report, stressing that i recognise that several very important recommendations of the internal audit service (ias), which were aimed at reducing important risks for the agency, are still pending and under review by the ias. to this end, the agency needs to take measures regarding the documentation of its risk assessments following the annual inspection programmes and inspection visits, to improve the monitoring and reporting of significant deficiencies raising safety concerns and to follow up and monitor its observations following inspection visits.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report approving the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european aviation safety agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. it is requested to continue to improve performance monitoring and information transmission. it is important that the agency defines smart targets and racer indicators as part of its programming, as it has done in the annual work programme and the aar (annual activity report) since 2008.
in writing. − 11 september 2001 challenged the security measures employed by civil aviation and made clear the extent to which it was exposed to the most radical and destructive agendas on the planet and the need to adopt effective measures to defend and protect passengers, crew and aircraft equipment. the european aviation safety agency therefore has a mission of the utmost importance, made worse by the increasing air traffic and the ever-increasing movement of people and goods. in view of the declining number of aircraft and aeronautical equipment producers, there is a justification for particular european concern with the need to guard against conflicts of interest, to preserve the impartiality of decisions taken, to ensure best certification practices and to take into account the main interests involved.
in writing. - the report under review, by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2010. the european aviation safety agency (easa), established in 2002, aims to establish and maintain a high and uniform level of safety in civil aviation throughout europe. it also has responsibilities for the certification of aeronautical products and their manufacturers. the court of auditors, in its report on the annual accounts of easa for the financial year 2010, has found them to be reliable and the underlying transactions to be legal and regular. however, i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need to improve risk assessments, monitoring and reporting of deficiencies and follow-up after inspection visits. therefore, and taking into account the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i am voting in favour of this report to give the executive director of the european aviation safety agency a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european aviation safety agency is appropriate.
in writing. − i share the concerns of the rapporteur who is of the opinion that the agency's conflict of interest policy should provide for the extent to which and under what conditions an agency employee may be involved in the certification of an aircraft on which he worked before joining the agency. in highlighting this recommendation, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby discharging the 2010 accounts of the european aviation safety agency.
in writing. - i approve this report, noting that according to the rgof, a review of the application of the internal control system has been carried out. however, i am concerned that two of the standards have not yet been implemented, namely the continuity of activities and the evaluation of activities, and that four others have only been partially implemented. i therefore consider it necessary that the centre immediately take action in this regard and inform the discharge authority of the state of implementation of those rules.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2010 discharge: european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) because i believe that this agency plays an important role in disease surveillance at european level and in the assessment and dissemination of risks to public health in europe.
in writing. − the speed and ease of movement currently enjoyed by part of the world's population brings with it an increased risk of early identification, adequate containment and effective control of communicable diseases. this undeniable fact demonstrates to the full the value that prevention and control of these can have in an area such as the european union where internal land borders have been abolished. the possibility of the spread of diseases by criminal activity is not to be ignored and reinforces the need for permanent epidemiological surveillance. the european centre for disease prevention and control has a particularly delicate and important task which requires the greatest transparency and rigor, including budgetary and human resources management.
in writing. - the report in question, by monica luisa macovei, deals with the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european centre for disease prevention and control for the financial year 2010. the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc), established in 2004, aims to contribute to strengthening europe's defence against infectious diseases such as influenza, sars and hiv/aids. its work is carried out in conjunction with the public health protection services of the member states. the court of auditors, in its report on the accounts of the edps for the financial year 2010, considered that they were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. however, i agree with the rapporteur that the edps should follow the recommendations made to him when the 2009 discharge was granted. in view of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i therefore vote in favour of this report to give the director of the eccdd discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) is appropriate.
in writing. − the centre is an important union body for the strengthening and development of disease surveillance at european level and for the assessment and dissemination of present and future risks to human health from infectious diseases, as well as for the concentration of health knowledge in europe. i support the recommendations for improving the services provided and for greater efficiency and transparency in their performance. for these reasons, and on the basis of the council's recommendation and the reports of the european court of auditors, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby discharging the ecdc's 2010 accounts.
in writing. − i welcome this report, noting that two important deadlines for reach and the classification, labelling and packaging regulation were agreed at the end of 2010. it is also worth noting that the agency has successfully managed the receipt and processing of 25 000 registration dossiers for 4 300 chemicals that are commonly used in europe or present the highest level of danger, and of more than three million notifications for 100 000 substances that are classified and whose labelling is necessary to protect the user. i also welcome the agency's initiatives to strengthen customer care and feedback procedures and particularly welcome the fact that the agency has devoted particular attention to communication activities such as stakeholder days, publications or user support.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 2010 discharge: european chemicals agency, as this agency has important functions in terms of the application of union chemicals legislation.
in writing. − the impact that the european chemicals agency's decisions can have on the lives of citizens and businesses is reason enough for the agency to be subject to close scrutiny over how it manages its budget and how it regulates and protects itself from conflicts of interest. the safety of the public and the environment require such rigour and call for particular attention.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european chemicals agency (echa) for the financial year 2010. established in 2007 and based in helsinki, echa aims to ensure the quality of life of european citizens by enforcing eu chemicals regulations, including by helping companies comply with the legislation, providing information and promoting the safe use of these products. the court of auditors, in its report on echa's accounts for the financial year 2010, considered that the accounts were reliable and the underlying transactions legal and regular. however, i agree with the rapporteur that echa should follow the recommendations made to it when the discharge was granted for 2009. in view of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i therefore vote in favour of this report to give the director of echa discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european chemicals agency is appropriate.
in writing. − i approve this report, acknowledging that in 2010 the sai carried out an audit of the planning and management system (mps) / monitoring of activities, the purpose of which was to assess and provide assurance on the adequacy of the planning and monitoring of the agency's activities. it is pertinent to note that the sai made eight recommendations, six of which were rated as important and two as desirable. the agency is thus responsible for promoting guidelines for measurable objectives and indicators in project planning and monitoring progress, for allocating costs to projects, for promoting more effective project management and for monitoring and verifying new data introduced in the mps. in addition, the agency should immediately take additional measures to address the deficiencies identified by the sai in its previous quality management and grant management audits, to develop and use the qa/qc checklist for the ghg inventory report, to plan, describe and document important quality checks, to ensure the oversight of quality controls, to anticipate business continuity issues, to carry out on-site controls and grant verification, and to monitor and follow up the implementation of grants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 2010 discharge: european environment agency, because i believe that this agency plays a key role in ensuring a high level of environmental protection in the eu.
in writing. - environmental protection is a contemporary protection which has long since ceased to be the exclusive domain of a particular ideology or political family. today this concern for nature conservation is common to most developed societies and reflects the extent to which they are confronted with the need to adapt their growth to their sustainability. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of the environment. the european environment agency is charged with advising on the best decisions to be made and is charged with being able to carry out independent assessments and not being subject to any particular demanding agenda. it is therefore necessary, in addition to budgetary restraint, to exercise particular caution in situations of conflict of interest and to reject militancy which is counterproductive.
in writing. - the report under review, by monica luisa macovei, deals with the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency, eea, for the financial year 2010. the eea, which was set up in 1993, currently has 32 members: the 27 member states of the european union plus norway, switzerland, liechtenstein, iceland and turkey. its aim is to help the eu and national governments make informed decisions on the environment. the court of auditors, in its report on the accounts of the eea, considered that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i welcome the high levels of budget implementation in terms of committed appropriations (100%) and payment appropriations (90.75%) and, while i understand the need to improve its performance, in particular in the inclusion of measurable objectives and indicators, i am voting against this report, as i believe that, as with other agencies, the executive director of the eea should also be given a discharge for the implementation of its budget for the year 2010, in accordance with the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety.
in writing. − we support the rapporteur's position to postpone the discharge to the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2010. we believe that the conflicts of interest involving senior officials of the agency, as well as the uncertainties about the real value of the reports produced by the agency, should be clarified. these conflicts arise from the accumulation of management positions in organisations with projects funded by the eea. we also support the call for greater transparency in the prevention and fight against conflicts of interest. some of the proposals made by the rapporteur are in this direction, such as the proposal to publish the declarations of interests of the eea's senior officials on its website.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are using the funds allocated correctly and are meeting the objectives set. in this particular case, the court of auditors has some doubts about the performance of the european environment agency. it is in this sense that i am voting in favour of postponing the discharge for the implementation of the agency's budget.
in writing. - i would point out the conflicts of interest identified in the european parliament's resolution and hope that the doubts raised will be cleared up. on the basis of these assumptions, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of the european environment agency.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that six very important recommendations of the sai still need to be implemented and that three of these recommendations have already been postponed for another 12 months. in particular, to stress that these delays concern the following aspects: information security management, contract renewal process and transparency of the decision-making process and classification and archiving policy; therefore, this report calls on the authority to address these shortcomings as quickly as possible and to inform the discharge authorities of the results obtained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 2010 discharge: european food safety authority, because i believe that this agency carries out vital work to strengthen food safety in the eu. it is also important to acknowledge the efforts made to address issues of potential conflict of interest.
in writing. - the report under review, by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2010. efsa was established with the aim of improving food safety across the european union by ensuring a high level of protection for consumers so that they have confidence in european food products. it therefore plays a role throughout the food chain, from the safety of food for animals intended for human consumption to plant protection and plant health. the court of auditors, in its report on the accounts of efsa, considered that it had obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. therefore, despite the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and taking into account the recommendations of the ombudsman, i am voting in favour of this report to postpone the discharge to the executive director of easa for the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. − we support the rapporteur's position to postpone the discharge to the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2010. we consider that the reporting of possible conflicts of interest and in particular a 'turn-key case' mentioned by the european ombudsman in his annual report are sufficient grounds for requesting a deferral of discharge until these cases are fully clarified. the report 'stresses that the ombudsman concludes that the authority had not carried out a full assessment of the alleged potential conflict of interest and asked the authority to improve the application of its rules and procedures in future revolving door cases; furthermore, underlines that the ombudsman also indicated that negotiations by an incumbent staff member regarding a future job that could represent revolving door situations would in itself constitute a conflict of interest and recommended that the authority strengthen its rules and procedures accordingly; requests the authority to inform the discharge authority of the concrete measures taken and the respective deadlines, in order to deal appropriately with the ombudsman's findings. for these reasons we voted in favour of the resolution.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are using the funds appropriately and are meeting the objectives set. in this particular case, the court of auditors has some doubts about the performance of the european food safety authority. it is in this sense that i am voting in favour of postponing the discharge for the implementation of the agency's budget.
in writing. − in view of the shortcomings identified in the management of information security, the contract renewal process and the transparency of the decision-making process and the classification and archiving policy, i support the request to the authority to address these shortcomings as quickly as possible and to inform the discharge authorities of the results obtained. in these terms, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of the european food safety authority.
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing the need to fill all vacancies which are indispensable for the effective functioning of the office and for the achievement of the objectives set. in my view, the delays and cancellations of a number of calls for tenders are regrettable, as a consequence, first, of the fact that the office only achieved financial and administrative independence at the end of the second quarter of 2010 and, second, of the insufficiency of qualified support for the office's operational unit. for these reasons, most of the budgetary commitments had to be carried over to the year 2011, as indicated in the institute's annual activity report. i would also remind you that the court of auditors has stressed that the institute is of the utmost importance for the promotion of gender equality in the european union. the next reports should therefore contain details of any obstacles which have prevented the office from carrying out its activities during the budgetary procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by approving the closure of the accounts of the european institute for gender equality for the financial year 2010. despite my vote in favour of granting discharge, i would like to make it clear that i do not support a possible merger of this institute with the fundamental rights agency of the european union on the grounds of cost reduction. the work carried out by the institute is recent and has enormous potential for the promotion of gender equality in the european union, and it is therefore necessary to maintain its autonomy.
in writing. − social and legal equality between the sexes, which, while different, are complementary, is essential for a balanced society. efforts to achieve this are worthwhile and should be followed up by the european union. i note that the office has not yet communicated the results of the ex ante evaluation it commissioned to the discharge authority.
in writing. − equality between men and women has shown significant progress in recent times and is considered a fundamental right. the report under examination, drawn up by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european institute for gender equality (eige) for the financial year 2010. the eig is a european agency whose objective is to support the member states and the european institutions in promoting equality between men and women. to do this, it collects and analyses data, develops methodologies and promotes the sharing of good practice. as 2010 is the first year of the eig's operation, i welcome the fact that the court of auditors, in its report on the eig's accounts, has declared all financial transactions to be legal and regular, and i hope that its performance will continue to improve despite the difficulties the eu is facing. in view of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i therefore vote in favour of this report, in order to give the director of the european institute for gender equality a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - in times of crisis, such as the one the peoples are currently experiencing, it is essential that the rights won by workers and peoples are defended. these rights must be strengthened, because the only way to overcome the predicament that the crisis of the capitalist system has brought us is through progress and social justice, by ensuring a fair distribution of wealth among those who create it. equality between women and men is an essential element and objective of this struggle. unfortunately, it's still a long way from being reached. the way forward must be to combat inequalities and to strengthen the conditions under which this struggle is carried out, on all fronts. we therefore disagree with the rapporteur's proposal to merge or abolish the european institute for gender equality. it is necessary to strengthen working conditions on this front, particularly as regards the recruitment of qualified staff, to ensure that it fully functions and continues to follow the principles for which it was created.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are using the funds allocated correctly and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that i vote in favour of the report by the european institute for gender equality.
in writing. − the european institute for gender equality acquired administrative and financial autonomy on 15 june 2010. in a time of economic crisis and austerity, it is vital that the institute is economical in its expenditure without compromising the good performance of its important mission. the first audit of the internal audit service will be carried out in 2012. in this context, and on the basis of the council's recommendation and the reports of the european court of auditors, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of the european institute for gender equality.
in writing. - in times of crisis, such as the one people are currently experiencing, it is not only essential that workers' rights are defended, but also urgent that they are strengthened: only the path of progress and social justice can put an end to the swamp situation that the capitalist system has brought us. in this context, equality between women and men is an urgent objective, but unfortunately it is still a long way off. the way forward must be to combat these inequalities and to strengthen the conditions under which this fight is carried out, on all fronts. we are therefore against the proposal to merge or dissolve the european institute for gender equality and in favour of strengthening the conditions, particularly as regards the recruitment of qualified staff, which enable it to function as it is intended to.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account, firstly, that the board of directors adopted restrictions on the former executive director's subsequent professional activities, following public protests, supported by the european parliament, against its decision of january 2011 to allow the former executive director's new professional activities without restrictions. i recall that the parliamentary committee held an exchange of views in july 2011 with the appointed executive director, during which the matter was raised again in order to avoid a repetition of the problem in the future. i regret that in its september 2010 follow-up report the internal audit service continued to consider the assessment of the independence of the experts to be inadequate and that the executive director of the agency is required to publish a list of all authorised medicinal products concerned and to provide information on how the agency intends to rectify these procedures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2010 discharge: european medicines authority, because i believe that this agency is carrying out vital work to enhance the safety and efficacy of medicines in the eu. it is also important to acknowledge the efforts made to address issues of potential conflict of interest.
in writing. − as in previous years, a number of questions have re-emerged around the normal functioning of the european medicines agency, in particular as to the existence of possible situations of conflict of interest and as to the legality and regularity of the underlying operations. i therefore welcome and support the rapporteur's decision to postpone the discharge and i reiterate that it is imperative that all the union institutions and agencies follow and respect the same principles of good administration and transparency.
in writing. - the report under review, by monica luisa macovei, focuses on the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency (ema) for the financial year 2010. the ema, which was set up in 1993 but only became operational in 1995, aims to protect and promote public and animal health by assessing and monitoring medicines for human and/or veterinary use. no medicinal product may be placed on the market without the favourable opinion of the agency. the court of auditors' report, although it made some observations on transitions, information technology contracts and payment systems, considered that the ema's accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable, legal and regular. i therefore vote against this report, taking into account the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, because i believe that, as with other agencies, the executive director of the ema should also be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. − we support the rapporteur's position to postpone the discharge to the european medicines agency (ema) for the financial year 2010. this position, as with other agencies, results from conflicts of interest within the agency. the resolution calls on the agency to strengthen its recruitment processes and ensure that its documentation is properly managed, to improve the documentation of the recruitment processes of contract staff by improving the selection process. it also urges the agency to inform the european parliament on how it ensures the full implementation of the procedures for the involvement of experts until the memoranda of understanding on the independence of scientific evaluation are signed by all competent national authorities. we voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are using the funds allocated correctly and are meeting the objectives set. in this particular case, the court of auditors has some doubts about the performance of the european medicines agency. it is in this sense that i am voting in favour of postponing the discharge for the implementation of the agency's budget.
in writing. − i would point out the conflicts of interest recorded and take note of the agency's willingness to publish the declarations of interests of the experts involved in the evaluation of medicinal products; i regret, however, that many of these experts have not yet published their declarations of interests. in this context, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of the european medicines agency.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament declares that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and terminates its budget. if, on the other hand, the institution has not complied with the existing rules, the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. the members of the european parliament, on the recommendation of the council, take decisions on the basis of the reports of the european court of auditors, and the european parliament may make recommendations to the european commission to take action in a particular direction. in this particular situation, i voted in favour of the decision to postpone the granting of discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i welcome this report, taking into account the centre's recommendation that it should strengthen its financial management, and acknowledges that drug issues should be adequately represented in the next multiannual financial framework (2014-2020). however, i welcome web-based dissemination as an efficient and cost-effective part of the observatory's overall communication strategy and information activities. the observatory should propose greater support for the european drug and drug addiction information network. given the economic difficulties europe will have to overcome, renewed flexibility, innovative organisational measures and better coordination between the union institutions, agencies and national authorities are required.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report approving the discharge to the director of the observatory for the general budget for the financial year 2010. cooperation between the centre and the european project for the study of alcohol and other substances in school environments is improving. monitoring of alcohol and tobacco use and other non-drug-related addictive behaviour should be included and prioritised in the next union drug strategy.
in writing. − the observatory has a very important role in the european context: it is responsible for providing objective, reliable and comparable information, which enables the european union and the member states to have a comprehensive view of the phenomenon of drug dependence and its consequences. the accuracy of the information justifies the same accuracy in the accounts. i repeat my hope that the observatory will not fail to carry out its task faithfully and accurately and that it will do so in accordance with the best criteria of budgetary management.
in writing. - the report in question, by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction (emcdda) for the financial year 2010. the emcdda, which is based in lisbon, aims to provide policy-makers with information to help them make the best decisions. its mission is to collect, analyse and process objective and reliable data on the phenomenon of drugs and drug addiction at european level. the court of auditors' report, although it made some observations, stated that it had obtained 'reasonable assurance' that the accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. however, the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs points to the need for the emcdda to consolidate its financial management and improve its link with the european programme for the study of alcohol and other substances in schools. in view of the report of the committee on budgetary control, i therefore vote in favour of this report to give the director of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are using the funds allocated correctly and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that i voted in favour of the report by the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction.
in writing. − with a view to ensuring that the recommendations made in previous discharge reports are complied with and in the expectation that the clarifications requested will be provided to the discharge authority, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction.
in writing. - i approve this report, noting that the agency still has to implement 15 very important recommendations made by the internal audit service. i am concerned, however, that 8 of these recommendations are being implemented 6 to 12 months late and that one recommendation has been rejected. the first 11 very important recommendations concern the legal and financial decision-making process, human resource management and internal control rules. since the rejected recommendation concerns the accountability for the performance evaluation of the accounting officer, the agency should explain to the discharge authority the reasons for this rejection and invite the agency to follow up on the outstanding recommendations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which approves the discharge to be given to the director of the european maritime safety agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. the company has a number of tasks, including ensuring a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and prevention of pollution caused by community vessels.
in writing. - this agency, based in lisbon, plays a very important role which deserves my full support. the security of the european maritime space is, and will continue to be, a responsibility of the utmost importance for the union and for the security of its citizens. i therefore congratulate and support the rapporteur on his recommendations and hope that the agency will continue to make efforts to fully comply with all the recommendations made here, as well as those of previous years.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) for the financial year 2010. emsa, established in 2002 and based in lisbon, provides technical support and advice to the european union (eu) and its member states on the development and implementation of legislation in the following areas: maritime safety, maritime security and prevention and response to pollution from ships. the court of auditors' report, although it made some observations, stated that it had obtained 'reasonable assurance' that the accounts were reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i welcome the fact that the court of auditors no longer criticises emsa's budgetary and financial management as it did in the past and i urge the agency to continue to improve its performance, financial management and control as recommended in the 2009 discharge. in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of emsa a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are using the funds allocated correctly and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that i voted in favour of the report by the european maritime safety agency.
in writing. − having regard to the court of auditors' statement that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular, and having regard to the council's recommendation, i have voted in favour of the discharge for the accounts presented by the european commission and have therefore given discharge to the accounts of the european maritime safety agency for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that in 2010 the sai carried out an audit of planning: stakeholder objectives and operations to assess and provide sufficient assurance as to the adequacy and effectiveness of the internal control system, related to stakeholder contribution and needs and the effectiveness of resource allocation in relation to priorities in operational activities. i would like to stress the importance of these very important recommendations in this respect, which relate to the development of a map of stakeholder expectations, the involvement of stakeholders in project planning and the improvement of stakeholder relationship management through an appropriate it tool.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report approving the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european network and information security agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. this undertaking aims to strengthen the capacity of the european union (eu), of eu countries and of the business sector for network and information security (enisa) in preventing, responding to and managing network and information security problems.
in writing. − with internet usage levels increasing worldwide, the role of this agency is becoming more prominent. dedicated to cybersecurity and access to trusted information for its millions of users, the agency has been playing an increasingly central role in the union and its member states. i therefore congratulate and support the rapporteur and wish the european union to continue to lead in the field of cybersecurity and privacy.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european network and information security agency (enisa) for the financial year 2010. enisa, based on the island of crete, is responsible for ensuring a high level of network and information security in the european union (eu). in a globalised world and in the digital age, security of data transmission systems is essential if people and businesses are to feel that their activities are not being compromised. the court of auditors' report states that it has obtained sufficient assurance that the accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. despite the fact that the work of implementing and consolidating internal procedures and controls is recognised, there is still much to be improved in this area. in view of the report of the committee on budgetary control, i therefore vote in favour of this report to give the director of the european network and information security agency a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this spirit that i voted in favour of the report by the european network and information security agency.
in writing. − with the note for compliance with the recommendations made in previous discharge reports and in the expectation that the clarifications requested will be provided to the discharge authority, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of the european network and information security agency.
in writing. − i approve this report, noting, on the basis of the agency's information, that the internal audit service (ias) carried out an audit of the planning and budgeting processes in 2010 in order to ensure that the agency's internal control system provides reasonable assurances with regard to the planning and budgeting processes; notes that the ias recommendations concern strategic planning, the consistency and accuracy of the revenue and expenditure forecast, the annual work programme as a financing decision and the medium-term strategy in the field of information technology; it is therefore appropriate that the agency take the necessary measures to implement the recommendations of the sai. i therefore consider that it is the responsibility of the agency to implement the recommendations of the ias relating to the audit in the field of human resources management carried out by the ias in 2009.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report approving the discharge to the executive director of the european railway agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. the report calls on the agency to create a multiannual plan, which translates long-term objectives into multiannual tasks, which would provide stakeholders with better information on objectives/activities, strategic priorities and the allocation of resources. it should also be noted that the agency is carrying out its activities at two workplaces, which implies additional costs.
in writing. the european railway sector is suffering from the incompatibility of national technical and safety rules, which is a serious handicap for its development. it is incumbent on the agency to close that gap and to set common safety objectives. this is a sector which remains extremely important in the european union, particularly in the outermost countries, and which must be exploited and improved so that it can contribute to its export role. i therefore congratulate and support the rapporteur and reiterate that it is essential that the agency follows and respects the same principles of good management and transparency as are required of all the union institutions.
in writing. - the report under consideration, drawn up by monica luisa macovei, concerns the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european railway agency (era) for the financial year 2010. era, based in lille, france, is tasked with cooperating with the railway sector to develop safety techniques and measures that harmonise european rail systems, are economically viable, increase safety and allow trains to travel between member states without stopping at borders. the court of auditors' report states that it has obtained sufficient assurances that the accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular. i welcome the fact that the criticisms of the accounts and the budget made by the court of auditors for the financial year 2009 have been rectified. we understand that in the face of the financial crisis it is very important to optimise the use of budgetary appropriations and that it is therefore necessary to set priorities for the real needs. in view of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on transport and tourism, i therefore vote in favour of this report to give the director of the era a discharge in respect of the implementation of his budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. that is why i voted in favour of the report by the european railway agency.
in writing. - i would point out that the european railway agency carries out its activities in two locations (lille and valenciennes), which exposes the agency to additional costs. this observation has been made since 2006 and to date the council has not done anything to amend decision 2004/97/ec of 13 december 2003 which requires the agency to have two seats. with this in mind, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of the european railway agency.
in writing. − i approve of this report, taking into account that the internal audit service (ias) carried out an audit in the area of planning and control in 2010, noting in particular that the ias made eight recommendations, one of which was rated as very important and addresses the need for the foundation to clearly define and describe the usefulness of its approach to annual planning. i therefore recommend that the foundation should seek to produce cost-effective reports that are relevant to the foundation's board of directors and key stakeholders, allowing them to check the foundation's performance, and that they should implement the remaining recommendations made by the sai in previous audits.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report to approve the closure of the accounts of the european training foundation for the financial year 2010, taking into account that the court of auditors states that it has obtained reasonable assurance that the accounts are reliable and that the underlying transactions are legal and regular.
in writing. the european training foundation (etf) aims to contribute to the development of vocational training systems by strengthening cooperation in the field of vocational training and ensuring the coordination of aid. the activities of the eff cover the countries applying for accession to the european union, the countries of the western balkans, the countries of eastern europe and central asia and the mediterranean partner countries. i welcome and support the rapporteur's conclusions and would remind her that the issues relating to vocational training involving third countries justify caution in the rigorous application of the funds available.
in writing. − education and training are two components of the learning process that ensure the development of a country and the well-being of its people. the report under review, by monica luisa macovei, focuses on the discharge for implementation of the budget of the european training foundation (etf) for the financial year 2010. based in turin, italy, the etf's mission is to help member states modernise their education and training systems in order to improve the qualifications of their citizens. the court of auditors' report declares the transactions underlying the etf's 2010 annual accounts to be legal and regular. however, it has not yet verified whether they accurately reflect the actual financial situation of the etf as at 31 december 2010 and whether the operations and cash flows comply with the provisions of the etf's financial regulation. however, in the light of the report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs, i am voting in favour of this report to give the director of the era a discharge in respect of the implementation of its budget for the year 2010.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds appropriately and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that i am voting in favour of the report by the european training foundation.
in writing. − the eu internal audit service (ias) carried out a planning and control audit in 2010 of the european training foundation and made eight recommendations, one of which was rated as 'very important' in that it addresses the need for the foundation to clearly define and describe the usefulness of its approach to annual planning. with this in mind and in the expectation that the recommendation will be implemented, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby discharging the 2010 accounts of the european training foundation.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the agency has taken the initiative to automatically provide the discharge authority with the annual internal audit report of the internal audit service (ias) concerning the agency, and that the agency has taken the responsibility for the ias to follow up on open recommendations from past audits, and in particular that, in relation to the follow-up of previous ias recommendations, the internal auditor has confirmed that all very important recommendations have been properly implemented and closed, except for the one concerning the validation of accounting systems, which was classified as important due to its partial implementation, and therefore considers it necessary for the agency to fully implement these two recommendations and to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by giving the director of the european agency for safety and health at work discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. i would like to emphasize the efforts made by the agency in presenting annual comparative data, which enable the discharge authority to evaluate the performance of this institution more effectively. this is good practice and should be followed by other agencies.
in writing. − the agency is responsible for providing the community bodies, the member states and interested parties with technical, scientific and economic information useful in the field of safety and health at work. this information is essential to enable us to assess the conditions of safety and health at work in the union and the best practices in this field in the european area. i congratulate and support the rapporteur on her conclusions and stress the importance of this agency in the present time we are living in.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i voted in favour of the report by the european agency for safety and health at work.
in writing. − the detailed data from the european agency for safety and health at work compare one year to the next in order to allow the discharge authority to evaluate the agency's performance more effectively, a good practice that should be followed by the other agencies. with this observation, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thus discharging the 2010 accounts of the european agency for safety and health at work.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that the court of auditors, in its report for the financial year 2010, highlighted the non-compliance of the agency's statute with article 54 of the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community, that the agency did not receive any grant to finance its activities and that the commission bore all the costs incurred by the agency in implementing its budget. i would remind you that this situation has been maintained since the agency was set up in 2008. i believe that the solution to the inconsistency is that there is no autonomous budget, which is due to the fact that the agency is integrated into the commission, which is contrary to the agency's statute.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report giving the director-general of the euratom supply agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. one of the main objectives of the euratom treaty is to ensure that all eu member states have a fair supply of nuclear ores and fuels (raw materials and special fissile materials).
in writing. − the european atomic energy community (euratom) is involved in the fields of atomic energy, including research, the development of safety standards and the peaceful uses of nuclear energy. by setting up this agency, euratom aimed to ensure a regular and equitable supply of ores, source materials and special fissile materials in the european union. i congratulate and support the rapporteur on her conclusions and i believe it is essential to maintain the activity of euratom.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that i vote in favour of the report by the euratom supply agency.
in writing. − noting the need to comply with the recommendations contained in previous discharge reports, as set out in the annex to the ep resolution containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2010, i voted in favour of the discharge presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the accounts of the euratom supply agency for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by congratulating the agency's initiative to provide the discharge authority with the annual internal audit report of the internal audit service (ias) on the agency automatically, which is an indication of transparency and a best practice to be followed by all other agencies. however, there is work to be done on the seven recommendations, none of which were rated as critical, but two were considered very important and related to the documentation of the agreement to be concluded at the level of services and the adoption and implementation of a security policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report by giving the director of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions a discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. i would, however, stress the need for the agency to provide the discharge authority with additional and detailed information on the amending budget presented at the end of 2010, which significantly increased the budget for that year.
in writing. − the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions (eurofound) is a tripartite body of the union, set up in 1975 to contribute to the planning and establishment of better living and working conditions in europe. more specifically, it assesses and analyses living and working conditions, gives authoritative opinions and advice to social policy makers and key players, contributes to improving the quality of life and reports on developments and trends, especially those that bring about change.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds allocated correctly and meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that i voted in favour of the report by the european agency for the improvement of living and working conditions.
in writing. − noting the need to comply with the recommendations contained in previous discharge reports, as set out in the annex to the ep resolution containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2010, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby giving discharge to the accounts for 2010 of the foundation.
in writing. − i approve of this report, regretting, firstly, that the evaluation committee did not apply the considerations published in the tender specifications, although it is positive that the agency has reported that measures have been taken including the submission to the administrative director of complete documentation on the substantive and commercial evaluation for each procedure before contracts are awarded. it should also be noted that progress has been made in the agency's vacancy rate, which was reduced to 13% by the end of 2010, compared to 24% at the end of 2009.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report approving the closure of eurojust's accounts for the financial year 2010. i congratulate the agency's budget, finance and contracting unit, which has introduced an improved method of training and financial analysis at unit level. the heads of unit now receive all information on expenditure and commitments by budget heading, which will be published monthly and quarterly, with comparisons with the budget for the current and previous year, on a monthly and cumulative basis. the implementation of this methodology will lead to better budgetary and financial management.
in writing. − eurojust is a european union body designed to collaborate with investigators and prosecutors across the eu and to work together in the fight against crossborder crime. it plays a central role in the exchange of information and extradition proceedings. i congratulate and support the rapporteur on her conclusions and stress the importance and sensitivity of the matters dealt with by eurojust, which justify the fact that it should be provided with the means to pursue them effectively.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. that is why i voted in favour of the eurojust report.
in writing. − noting that 12 very important recommendations of the eu internal audit service remain unfulfilled, two of which the agency says have been implemented, i call on the internal audit service to clarify the current state of implementation of the recommendations by the agency. with this observation, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to eurojust's 2010 accounts.
in writing. − i approve this report, noting that the internal audit service (ias) has conducted an audit of the implementation of the internal control standards to assess the state of implementation, in particular with regard to the areas of mission and values, human resources, risk planning and management process, operations and control activities, financial and information reporting, evaluation and audit, and recommending the implementation of the necessary measures mentioned in the ias recommendations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report approving the closure of the accounts of the european police office for the financial year 2010. i welcome the fact that the annual work programme of the office is in line with its strategy for 2010-2014 and contains the key performance indicators, risks and critical resources allocated to each annual objective.
in writing. - the european police office (europol) plays a very important role, not only in the union but in the world. there has been a recent increase in charges due to the transfer of headquarters, which will be duly taken into account for the year 2012. i congratulate and support the rapporteur on her conclusions and stress the importance of providing europol with the means to achieve its aims.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the europol report is appropriate.
in writing. − considering the complementarities between the european police college and the european police service, as well as the potential synergies, i support the call on the commission to prepare an overall impact assessment on a potential merger of these two agencies, presenting the costs and benefits by march 2013. in this context, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thus discharging the 2010 accounts of europol.
in writing. − i approve this report, acknowledging that the internal audit service (ias) has conducted an audit of the implementation of the internal control standards to assess the state of implementation, in particular with regard to the areas of mission and values, human resources, risk planning and management process, operations and control activities, financial and information reporting, evaluation and audit. in accordance with this audit, i stress the need to implement the important recommendations relating to the separation of functions, ex post control, exceptions to procedures, business continuity and operational continuity plans, in order to promote greater transparency in all bodies of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report approving the discharge to the director of the european union agency for fundamental rights in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. the development of project management software is to be commended as an effective it tool and as an example of good practice according to the ias audit. i welcome the agency's initiative to link the matrix programme to the abac, the budgetary system, to make available information on the implementation of commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. − the purpose of the agency is to provide the institutions of the european union and the member states with assistance and expertise in the field of fundamental rights and to support them in taking measures and defining appropriate actions. notes from the aar that the agency has adopted a code of administrative conduct which, together with the staff regulations, aims to ensure good ethical conduct, avoid conflicts of interest, prevent fraudulent acts and encourage reporting of irregularities; the commission also notes the adoption of specific measures to raise awareness and prevent conflicts of interest (statements) during recruitment procedures and before the selection boards of the contract awards. i therefore note with satisfaction that, in order to further strengthen this internal control, the agency should improve the application of the rules on whistleblowing and the protection of whistleblowers and that this improvement should be achieved in 2012.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the european union agency for fundamental rights is appropriate.
in writing. − stressing that the agency has adopted a code of administrative conduct which, together with the staff regulations, aims to ensure good ethical conduct, avoid conflicts of interest, prevent fraudulent acts and encourage reporting of irregularities, i voted in favour of the discharge of the accounts presented by the european commission and thus gave a discharge to the accounts of the european union agency for fundamental rights for 2010.
in writing. − i approve this report, stressing that the sai has followed up the implementation of the recommendations it made in 2010, noting in particular that all these recommendations are still being implemented. i would, however, draw attention to its recommendations contained in previous discharge reports, as set out in the annex to this resolution, and stress the importance of the resolution of the discharge decision being horizontal in nature for its 2012 resolution on the performance, financial management and control of the agencies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report approving the discharge for the general budget to the executive director of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the union. the agency should continue to introduce coherence in the strategic and annual planning of its operations, as the objectives of the annual work programme (awp) for 2010 are not clearly articulated with those of the multiannual programme 2010-2013 for 2010.
in writing. − the frontex agency is responsible for coordinating operational cooperation between member states in the field of external border management, supporting the training of national border guards, including the definition of common training standards. it is noted that although the agency's budget increased in 2010, the net value allocated to operational activities decreased, but the number of operational working hours increased by 27%. the agency's efforts to improve the monitoring of the operational budget are also noted. the increasing migratory pressure on the union's borders and the need for coordination between member states justify to a large extent that the agency should be equipped with the appropriate means to fulfil the tasks entrusted to it.
in writing. - the fight for another europe, one of peace, cooperation and solidarity among peoples, a space of progress, social justice and well-being, is also a fight for the defence of human dignity. everyone, including immigrants. the pcp has been, is and will always be at the forefront of the fight against the repressive and criminalising view of immigration in the eu, which frontex is an expression of. as a major expression of this vision is the so-called "return directive" or "shame", as it has also become known, because it criminalizes immigrants and their families. it is urgent to denounce and condemn frontex, one of the central pillars of this security and exploitative vision of eu immigration policy. it is urgent to demand ratification of the un international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families. we have voted against this report in protest.
in writing. − all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and by all bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds allocated correctly and meeting the objectives set. the report by the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) is therefore to be voted in favour.
in writing. - reiterating the call on the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union (frontex) to continue to introduce coherence in the strategic and annual planning of its operations, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the accounts for 2010 of the european agency for the management of operational cooperation at the external borders of the member states of the european union.
in writing. - the fight for another europe, one of peace, cooperation and solidarity among peoples, is also a fight for the defence of the human dignity of immigrants. the pcp has been, is and will always be at the forefront of the fight against the repressive, imperialist and federalist vision of the european union, particularly in this area, especially after the return or shame directive, which criminalizes immigrants and their families. it is urgent to denounce and condemn frontex, one of the central pillars of the eu's criminalising, security and exploitative immigration policy, and to demand ratification of the un international convention on the protection of the rights of all migrant workers and members of their families.
in writing. − i approve of this report, but stress that the agency needs to ensure that all the objectives of the multiannual programme are transposed appropriately and clearly into the pta. i further emphasise that the sai continues to need to review the agency's implementation of seven very important recommendations from the sai's previous audits; notes in particular that these recommendations cover the 2009 audit on the management of grants, the 2008 follow-up audit on internal control systems and in particular the staffing appropriate to achieve its objectives and the 2007 audit on internal control systems and in particular the review of the registration process and the appropriate full function description and communication to staff.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report approving the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european gnss agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. the agency was set up to ensure accreditation security, operate the galileo security centre and contribute to the preparation of the systems for commercialisation and has already taken the measures required by parliament throughout 2011 to ensure transparency, equal treatment and effectiveness in the selection processes.
in writing. − the european global navigation satellite system (gnss) agency aims to ensure the management of the public interest in european satellite radio navigation programmes and to act as the regulator of these programmes. the list of responsibilities reinforces the requirement that the commission should relate its activities and expenditure to the budget allocated to it and follow it in accordance with the rules for its implementation.
in writing. − all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and by all bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, the institutions in question are using the funds allocated correctly and meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that i voted in favour of the report by the european gnss agency.
in writing. − noting the need to comply with the recommendations contained in previous discharge reports, as set out in the annex to the ep resolution containing the observations which form an integral part of the decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european gnss agency for the financial year 2010, i voted in favour of the discharge presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the agency's accounts for 2010.
in writing. - i approve this report, recalling that joint ventures are public-private partnerships and that public and private interests are therefore interlinked. i therefore believe that in such circumstances the likelihood of conflicts of interest should not be ignored but rather addressed appropriately. joint undertakings should therefore be required to inform the discharge authority of the verification mechanisms in place within their structures to allow for the proper management and prevention of conflicts of interest. the court of auditors should be asked to submit to parliament, within a reasonable time, a special report on the added value of the establishment of joint undertakings for the efficient implementation of union research, technological development and demonstration programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report approving the discharge to be given to the executive director of the artemis joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. this company was set up for efficient research performance, entitled 'research agenda', for the development of key technologies in the field of computer systems in different application areas, in order to strengthen europe's competitiveness and sustainability and enable the emergence of new markets.
in writing. − the artemis joint undertaking is implementing the joint technology initiative (jti) in the field of embedded computing systems. this public-private partnership is mainly intended to support the co-financing of research initiatives at european level and to improve cooperation between the different players in the sector. i support the rapporteur's request to the commission to provide the discharge authority annually with consolidated information on the total annual funding from the general budget of the union for each joint undertaking in order to ensure transparency and clarity as regards the use of union funds and to restore the confidence of european taxpayers.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions and as assessed by the known audits, it can be said that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the proposed objectives. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by mr artemis - embedded computing systems is appropriate.
in writing. − i support the request to the court of auditors to forward to the discharge authority the follow-up to the observations made in respect of each of the joint ventures, including artemis. in this context, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby discharging the 2010 accounts of artemis: embedded computing systems.
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing that the european commission has so far set up seven joint ventures under article 187 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i note that the six joint undertakings (imi, artemis, eniac, clean sky, fch and iter-f4e) are in the research area, under the responsibility of the commission's dg rtd and dg infso, and that the other, which is responsible for the development of the new air traffic management system (sesar), in the field of transport, is supervised by dg move. the total union contribution deemed necessary for the joint undertakings during their lifetime amounts to eur 11 489 000 000. it is important that the court of auditors informs the discharge authority about the follow-up of the comments on each of the joint undertakings included in their reports on the annual accounts for the financial year 2011.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report approving the discharge to be given to the executive director of the clean sky joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. clean sky was established to accelerate the development, evaluation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the union. however, there are some shortcomings, in particular the accumulation of significant delays compared to the initial plans, as well as the lack of preparation both at administrative and technical level.
in writing. − the clean sky joint undertaking was set up in response to the perceived need to promote the development, validation and demonstration of clean air transport technologies in the european union with a view to putting them into practice as soon as possible. i therefore welcome the fact that the joint undertaking has adopted a comprehensive and strategic internal audit plan for the period 2010-2012.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions and as assessed by the known audits, it can be said that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the proposed objectives. that is why i am voting in favour of the clean sky report - aeronautics and the environment.
in writing. - having called on clean sky - aeronautics and environment to implement the necessary measures to complete its internal controls and financial reporting system, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thus discharging clean sky's 2010 accounts.
in writing. - i approve this report, recalling once again in this plenary that joint undertakings are public-private partnerships and that, consequently, public and private interests are interlinked. i am of the opinion that in these circumstances the likelihood of conflicts of interest should not be ruled out but rather addressed appropriately. the joint undertakings should therefore inform the discharge authority of the existing verification mechanisms in their respective structures, in order to allow for proper management and the prevention of conflicts of interest. in this regard, the court of auditors shall provide the discharge authority with follow-up information on the observations it has made to each of the joint undertakings in its respective annual accounts for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report approving the discharge to be given to the executive director of the eniac joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. this company was set up with the aim of defining and implementing a research agenda for the development of core competencies in the field of nanoelectronics across the different application areas.
in writing. − the eniac joint undertaking was set up on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a research agenda for the development of core competences in nanoelectronics across different application areas. this company became financially independent in july 2010. eniac received a qualified opinion from the court of auditors on the reliability of the accounts, on the grounds that the joint undertaking has not included in the accounts as required by accounting rule 16 of the ec, presentation of budgetary information in annual accounts the budget implementation result statement and its reconciliation with the economic result statement. the two entities consider different dates for the start of the autonomous operation of the joint undertaking, which should be reconciled.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this spirit that the vote in favour of the eniac joint undertaking report is taken.
in writing. − the eniac joint undertaking was set up on 20 december 2007 for a period of 10 years with the objective of defining and implementing a research agenda for the development of core competences in nanoelectronics across different application areas. i support the european parliament's request to the court of auditors to submit, within a reasonable time, a special report on the added value of the establishment of joint ventures for the efficient implementation of research programmes. in these terms, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby discharging the accounts of the eniac joint undertaking for 2010.
in writing. - i approve this report, recalling once again in this plenary that joint undertakings are public-private partnerships and that, consequently, public and private interests are interlinked. i am of the opinion that in these circumstances the likelihood of conflicts of interest should not be ruled out but rather addressed appropriately. the joint undertakings should therefore inform the discharge authority of the existing verification mechanisms in their respective structures, in order to allow for proper management and the prevention of conflicts of interest. in this regard, the court of auditors shall provide the discharge authority with follow-up information on the observations it has made to each of the joint undertakings in its respective annual accounts for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report which gives the executive director of the fch joint undertaking discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. this company (phc) was set up to develop market applications and thus facilitate complementary industrial efforts towards rapid development of fuel cell and hydrogen technologies.
in writing. − according to the court of auditors' opinion, the joint undertaking has an appropriate level of governance and it practice for its size and functions. however, the formalisation of policies and procedures within the strategic it planning cycle, the classification of data according to confidentiality and integrity requirements, the business continuity plan and the disaster recovery plan are lagging behind. i therefore support the request to the joint undertaking to remedy the situation and to submit an updated report to the discharge authority on this matter.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking is appropriate.
in writing. − the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch) has only been financially autonomous since november 2010, and there are still many shortcomings in its organisation and transparency that have been identified and need to be addressed. with this warning, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission and thereby discharging the 2010 accounts of the fuel cells and hydrogen joint undertaking (fch).
in writing. - i approve this report, recalling once again in this plenary that joint undertakings are public-private partnerships and that, consequently, public and private interests are interlinked. i am of the opinion that in these circumstances the likelihood of conflicts of interest should not be ruled out but rather addressed appropriately. the joint undertakings should therefore inform the discharge authority of the existing verification mechanisms in their respective structures, in order to allow for proper management and the prevention of conflicts of interest. in this regard, the court of auditors is responsible for providing the discharge authority with follow-up information on the observations it has made to each of the joint undertakings in its respective annual accounts for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report approving the discharge to the executive director of the joint undertaking for the implementation of the joint technology initiative on innovative medicines for the implementation of the joint undertaking's budget for the financial year 2010. this company was set up to implement a joint technology initiative on innovative medicines with the aim of significantly improving the effectiveness and efficiency of the drug development process so that the pharmaceutical industry produces, in the long term, more effective and safer innovative medicines.
in writing. − the joint undertaking aims to improve the effectiveness and efficiency of the drug development process so that the pharmaceutical sector produces innovative medicines that are more effective and safer. the joint undertaking thus aims to contribute to the implementation of the seventh framework programme and to support pharmaceutical research and development in the member states and countries associated to the seventh framework programme. the company encourages the participation of small and medium-sized enterprises in its activities and cooperation between the private sector and the academic world.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are using the funds allocated correctly and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report by the innovative medicines initiative (imi) is appropriate.
in writing. − with a call for the innovative medicines initiative (imi) to inform the discharge authority of the measures taken and the respective implementation deadlines and to take into account the recommendations of the mid-term evaluation and keep the authority informed of the progress made, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of this joint undertaking.
in writing. - i approve this report, recalling once again in this plenary that joint undertakings are public-private partnerships and that, consequently, public and private interests are interlinked. i am of the opinion that in these circumstances the likelihood of conflicts of interest should not be ruled out but rather addressed appropriately. the joint undertakings should therefore inform the discharge authority of the existing verification mechanisms in their respective structures, in order to allow for proper management and the prevention of conflicts of interest. in this regard, the court of auditors shall provide the discharge authority with follow-up information on the observations it has made to each of the joint undertakings in its respective reports on the annual accounts for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − this joint undertaking contributes to the work of euratom, the international fusion energy organisation iter, with a view to the rapid realisation of fusion energy, and to the development and coordination of a programme of activities in preparation for the construction of a demonstration fusion reactor (demo) and associated facilities, notably the international fusion materials irradiation facility (ifmif). i agree with the rapporteur that of the nine contract award procedures audited, three received only one proposal. the seizure concerns in particular grants, where the average number of tenders received was only one per tender. i therefore welcome the fact that the joint undertaking has been asked to draw up an action plan with concrete measures and deadlines to optimise competition and to respect the principle of the most economically advantageous tender in the preparation, publication, evaluation and management of contracts relating to calls for tenders.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are using the funds allocated correctly and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the report on the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy is appropriate.
in writing. − noting that the joint undertaking's internal control systems have not yet been fully developed and implemented as required by its financial regulation, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of the joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy.
in writing. - i approve this report, recalling once again in this plenary that the joint undertakings are public-private partnerships and that, consequently, public and private interests are interlinked. i am of the opinion that in these circumstances the likelihood of conflicts of interest should not be ruled out but rather addressed appropriately. the joint undertakings should therefore inform the discharge authority of the existing verification mechanisms in their respective structures, in order to allow for proper management and the prevention of conflicts of interest. in this regard, the court of auditors shall provide the discharge authority with follow-up information on the observations it has made to each of the joint undertakings in its respective annual accounts for the financial year 2011.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report approving the discharge to be given to the executive director of the sesar joint undertaking in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010. this joint undertaking was set up in february 2007 to manage the activities of the single european sky air traffic management research (sesar) project, a research programme on air traffic management in the single european sky.
in writing. the aim of this joint venture is to modernise the european air traffic management system and to pool the community's research and development efforts under the sesar (european new generation air traffic management system) project. the safety of citizens who increasingly use the services of airlines and of their employees justifies a particular effort to find the best solutions for managing this type of traffic, as well as the monitoring and comparison of the methodologies already applied in the various member states, with a view to the joint adoption of best practices and safe, cost-effective and innovative solutions. i therefore recognise the importance of the european commission and the member states improving the effectiveness of the application of the single european sky regulations in order to increase the effectiveness of investments in the sesar project.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as can be seen from the audits that have been carried out, the institutions concerned are using the funds allocated correctly and are meeting the objectives set. it is in this sense that the vote in favour of the sesar joint undertaking report is appropriate.
in writing. − calling for the management system of the joint undertaking's operational programme to be integrated into financial reporting systems for better transparency and monitoring of activity, i voted in favour of approving the accounts presented by the european commission, thus giving discharge to the 2010 accounts of the sesar joint undertaking, the company set up to manage the research programme on air traffic management in the single european sky.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament declares that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and terminates its budget. if, on the other hand, the implementation has not complied with the existing rules, the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. the members of the european parliament, on the recommendation of the council, decide on the basis of the reports of the european court of auditors, and the european parliament may make recommendations to the european commission to take action on certain matters. as regards the discharge for 2010, i am voting in favour of the discharge presented by the european commission.
in writing. − when giving a discharge to an institution or agency, the european parliament declares that it has complied with european rules on the implementation of the budget and terminates its budget. if, on the other hand, the institution has not complied with the existing rules, the european parliament may refuse or postpone discharge. the members of the european parliament, on the recommendation of the council, take decisions on the basis of the reports of the european court of auditors, and the european parliament may make recommendations to the european commission to take action in a particular direction. in this particular situation, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i support this report, stressing the need for the commission to inform parliament of other indicators, sources or methods - other than whistleblowers or informants - that it can use to determine in which areas of eu funds or revenue. the commission shall assess whether the cases of fraud investigated, resulting from reports or information, correspond to the areas where the possibility of a high level of fraud is estimated on the basis of independent criteria or indicators. if not, i ask the commission to look at other methods of opening investigations in areas where the suspicion of fraud is hidden under the criminal silence laws, which prevent the leak of information through whistleblowers and informers. i believe that member states are failing to provide data in a timely manner or that the data they provide are not accurate or comparable, making it impossible to objectively assess the true scale of fraud in the member states. the european parliament, the commission and olaf cannot carry out their duties in relation to the assessment of the situation and the submission of other proposals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2010 annual report on the protection of the eu's financial interests fight against fraud, as it alerts the commission to irregularities and cases of suspected fraud. the report calls on the commission to exercise its right of legislative initiative by requiring member states to provide all information on the level of irregularities, so that the scale of fraud in the different countries can be reliably determined.
in writing. − fraud is voluntary irregular behaviour which constitutes a criminal offence, and an irregularity means a breach of a rule. it should therefore be severely penalized in order to limit its occurrence as much as possible. i find it serious that in 2010 irregularity reports increased in all sectors except for pre-accession funds and traditional own resources. the report says that in 2010 the financial impact of irregularities in the area of expenditure increased to €1.8 billion. this means that there are still funds that are being misused and mismanaged, and therefore measures must be taken to hold member states more accountable for irregularities and to improve the mechanisms for preventing and detecting irregularities. these are worrying data that lack urgent and effective corrective and punitive measures, such as immediate suspension of payments in cases of fraud and effective sanctions in cases of misuse of funds.
in writing. - the report in question, by zigmantas balčytis, deals with the protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud - annual report 2010, more specifically the topic of the risk of double funding in cohesion policy, as previously agreed between the commission and the member states (ms). according to the report, during 2010 irregularity reports increased in all sectors except for pre-accession funds and traditional own resources. despite the implementation of an irregularity management system (ims) managed by the european anti-fraud office (olaf), some member states do not update their data, which reduces the effectiveness of this system. it is therefore necessary for the commission to adopt the necessary measures, if necessary a legislative initiative, in order to be able to know in good time the level of irregularities and fraud in the member states. because the commission's annual reports cannot be based on inaccurate data, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the report notes that in 2010, the overall financial impact of irregularities detected by control systems amounted to eur 2193 million, an increase on 2009. according to the ect, control systems are only partially effective in ensuring the regularity of payment. the ecj considers that in most cases the member state authorities had sufficient information to have detected and corrected at least some of the errors before the payments were made. so there is room for improvement. the main criticism of the rapporteur is the lack of reliable statistical data on the extent of fraud and corruption, as well as on tax and customs evasion and the misuse of community funds by organised crime (data which the european parliament has repeatedly requested from the commission). this means that the commission is unable to assess the real extent of irregularities and fraud in the eu, and confuses the two. despite the positive aspects of the report, some issues are not sufficiently addressed and some of the proposed solutions lack greater context and some caution. we did not support the proposals concerning the suspension of payments and the application of sanctions to the member states.
in writing. − this report on the protection of the european union's financial interests - fight against fraud - annual report 2010 contains the latest information on irregularities and suspected cases of fraud reported by the member states. the report analyses a specific topic, agreed in advance between the commission and the member states, namely the risk of double funding in cohesion policy. it is very important that the data provided by the member states are reliable and that they ensure that the fight against fraud in the use of community funds is increasingly effective, as it is a matter of safeguarding the money of all european citizens.
in writing. − the fight against fraud is essential to ensure the proper management and use of all community funds and the integrity of the community budget. there is work done, but there is still a long way to go. i voted in favour of this report on the protection of the eu's financial interests - fight against fraud - annual report 2010 because it points to new ways of combating fraud and calls on the european commission to step up the fight against fraud.
in writing. − this report contains the latest information on irregularities and suspected fraud reported by the member states. there was an increase in the number of irregularity reports in 2010 in all sectors except for pre-accession funds and traditional own resources. the fact that the irregularities management system (ims) is not being used by all member states has led the european parliament to urge the commission to take all necessary measures to ensure that member states comply with their reporting obligations and to provide reliable and comparable data on the level of irregularities and fraud in the member states. i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is essential that all the necessary data should be made available in good time so that the true scale of fraud in the member states can be determined.
in writing. - having regard to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission, which concluded that the proposal does not contain substantive amendments other than those identified as such and that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts together with the amendments introduced, the proposal is limited to the mere codification of existing acts without any substantive changes, i approve this report, taking into account the recommendations made by the consultative working party.
in writing. - although the roaming market continues to grow at a good pace, there is still very little competition. the excessive cost of roaming charges does not benefit consumers or the european economy. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it sets out structural measures to solve this problem and introduces for the first time a ceiling on retail prices for mobile data services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which proposes to reduce the roaming charges for mobile networks in the union. the aim of the legislation is to create a single market for communications without price differences between domestic and roaming.
in writing. - the mobile phone has become a fundamental and irreplaceable means of communication for millions of citizens. today, in addition to calling and texting, mobile phones are also a preferred means of accessing the internet and data services. however, despite the geographical mobility and the free movement of persons and workers guaranteed by the treaties, most citizens continue to switch off their mobile phones when abroad in order not to have to pay roaming costs. the excessive cost of roaming and the consequent reduced use of mobile phones outside the home country do not benefit european consumers or the european economy. that is why it is urgent that measures be taken to bring down roaming charges. i therefore vote in favour of this report and congratulate the rapporteur on her work.
in writing. - information technologies have taken over our everyday lives. just look at the passers-by on a busy street in any european capital or watch students entering and/or leaving schools. young and old alike can't live without their mobile phones, their ipads, their smartphones, pens, tablets, etc. data transfers are a constant and the market is constantly evolving. it is essential that european citizens, whether at home or when travelling, can access these services quickly and at competitive prices. the cost of data transmission, especially when moving from one member state to another, is now almost prohibitive. we are in a europe without frontiers, building a single market. it is essential that this market also applies to new information technologies. we all have to win: consumers and businesses. i welcome the creation of a roaming regulation which will limit the tariffs of operators outside their member states, making it possible to hire foreign operators, with significant savings in the cost of roaming. i voted in favour of this report by mrs angelika niebler because i believe that the recommendations will promote mobility in the european area, benefit consumers and make businesses more competitive.
in writing. - we certainly appreciate the intention to reduce the price of mobile communications for roaming services, whose cost is now very high and unjustified. there are, however, other aspects of this proposal for a regulation which cannot be dismissed lightly in the face of this wish. the liberalization proposed for the sector, with the completion of the internal market in this field, will inevitably lead to the concentration of supply in a few large transnational operators. the consequences of this monopolistic concentration are known in other sectors and, here too, foreseeable: price concertation and even price increases at later stages of the process; pressure on the working conditions of workers in the sector. we also express some concern about the evolution of the use of the radio spectrum, a public good of great importance, limited, whose increasing occupation (and domination by private interests) lacks a multi-level impact assessment, which has been neglected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, as a supporter of the end of roaming within the european union, i.e. the elimination of the difference between domestic and roaming charges for mobile communications, in the interests of consumers who have been the victims of speculative and technically unjustified tariff policies, i cannot but support any step towards reducing those differences by reducing the prices charged to customers who use their communication equipment when travelling outside the country where they have established their contract for the provision of services. the widespread use of mobile communications equipment, including internet access, is a positive sign of our times and should not be hindered by the commercial exploitation of these services by providers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which sets out measures to tackle the excessive cost of roaming charges and introduces for the first time a ceiling on retail prices for mobile data services. in fact, although the roaming market continues to grow at a good pace, it still shows very little competition and the excessive cost of roaming charges does not benefit either consumers or the european economy.
in writing. − this report on roaming on public mobile communications networks in the union contains measures that meet the legitimate wishes of our citizens. the central issue in this proposal for a regulation is the imposition of limits on mobile phone charges charged to european consumers when roaming. this is the first step in a process which ultimately aims to end roaming in the european union by 2016. another essential aspect has to do with the quality of the information provided to consumers. as of the summer, operators are obliged to inform consumers of the prices charged when they travel outside the european union. in addition, the consumer may, if he so wishes, have two contracts: one for services in the national territory and the other for services abroad, keeping the same mobile number and having only one invoice. finally, it is advocated that operators should be able to enter the market more easily, which means increased competition which in turn will stimulate better services and better prices for the consumer. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation on the introduction of a single european market in telecommunications services, - while it may have an initial positive impact through the regulated lowering of prices for roaming services, the completion of the eu internal market in this area will generate the concentration of supply in some transnational monopolies in the sector, leading to unemployment of many workers and to price increases, as evidenced by the completion of the internal market in other areas; - i know . spectrum space, which is committed or reserved for commercial purposes, is increasingly monopolized, with only a few exceptions; public space is dead, a shrinking number of private companies dominate this public good and natural resource of shared sovereignty between countries; - i know . the spectrum is being filled but the environmental and public health impact of this occupation is not properly assessed nor are rules imposed, despite the warnings made by many studies; the urgent need to increase the number of technical applications and their rapid commercialisation by the sector's monopolies overrides the need to safeguard public health, which could have disastrous consequences for people and for life on the planet.
in writing. - having regard to the conclusion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the european parliament, the council and the commission in its opinion that the proposal does not contain substantive amendments other than those identified as such and that, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts together with the amendments introduced, the proposal is limited to the mere codification of existing acts without substantive changes, i approve this report taking into account the recommendations made by this group.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the eu should continue to be a leader in environmental legislation and i agree that derogations from the icp procedure should be limited, as it is the eu's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals it exports do not cause unnecessary harm to humans or the environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on exports and imports of dangerous chemicals because i believe that the agreement reached with the council introduces important provisions for the protection of human health and the environment by applying the prior information and consent procedure provided for in the rotterdam convention.
in writing. the commission has proposed a recast of the regulation implementing the rotterdam convention on the exchange of information on chemicals placed on the market (the pic regulation). the main aim is to allow chemicals produced in the european union, which meet all eu environmental and health legislation standards, to be allowed to enter world markets, and to be replaced by chemicals with lower quality standards. in doing so, the european union ensures not only the export of its chemicals, protecting the european chemical industry, but also a high degree of environmental protection.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 689/2008 (the pic regulation) applies the rotterdam convention in the european union, but goes beyond it in that it covers a wider range of chemicals. in addition, the regulation applies the pic procedure to all countries importing listed chemicals from the eu and not only to countries that are party to the convention. i support the involvement of the european chemicals agency (echa) in the application of the regulation in order to take the greatest responsibility for its implementation. the chemicals listed in parts 2 and 3 of annex i to the pic regulation are banned or severely restricted in the eu because they often pose risks to the environment and/or human health. it is important to take special care when exporting these chemicals to third countries to ensure that we do not do so against their will. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that the derogations should be limited to the pic procedure, as it is the eu's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals we export do not cause unnecessary harm to humans or the environment.
in writing. - the report seems to us to be generally positive and we have therefore supported it. the pic regulation applies the rotterdam convention in the eu, promotes the exchange of information on chemicals placed on the market and applies the prior information and consent procedure when chemicals covered by the convention are exported. the mechanism thus ensures that chemical exporting countries formally obtain the consent of importing countries before exporting. the commission proposal, supported by parliament, clarifies some definitions and involves the european chemicals agency in their application. therefore, care should be taken that manufacturers of chemicals banned or restricted in the eu, who normally choose to export, in particular to countries with more permeable legislation, can only do so by formally certifying that, when exporting these products, the third countries receiving them are not against their reception, given that certain chemicals entail a risk to public health and the environment, which is the central issue of this regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i think that, compared with the commission's proposal, it contains better provisions to protect public health, the environment and the economy itself. i believe that we should not facilitate the export of chemicals which are banned or heavily restricted in the european union to third countries. i could not therefore agree to the extension of the possibility of derogations in this area. the failure to respond to an export request for these products may be due to a number of factors, including inefficient administration, economic weakness or the belief that the general law covers the case. the absence of a reply cannot therefore be considered as acceptance of the import of those chemicals. the eu's role should not be to facilitate the export of chemicals banned in europe to countries whose legislation or administration is more permeable. the eu must be committed to safeguarding public health and the environment, not the profits of european manufacturers of chemicals banned in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the regulation of trade in dangerous chemicals, because it is concerned with ensuring the safety of citizens and the protection of the environment. this report introduces changes, such as requiring prior consent from importing countries to trade in these dangerous products, even when these countries are not part of the european union. the adoption of this regulation safeguards the international obligations assumed by the european parliament under the rotterdam convention.
in writing. − it is the eu's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals it exports do not cause unnecessary harm to humans or the environment. for this reason, and because i believe that the eu should continue to be a leader in environmental legislation, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution.
in writing. − this report concerns the recasting of regulation (ec) no 689/2008 (the pic regulation) concerning the export and import of dangerous chemicals. although this regulation was created as a result of the rotterdam convention, it is true that its scope goes beyond that, covering a wider range of chemicals. the commission has now proposed a recast of this regulation, in particular to clarify certain definitions, bring the regulation into line with recently adopted legislation on chemicals, involve the european chemicals agency (echa) more closely in the application of the regulation and amend the rules of the prior information and consent procedure to make it easier for exporters to export chemicals covered by the pic regulation in cases where no response is received. it should be stressed that we must remain cautious about the possibility of applying derogations from the pic procedure with regard to exports of chemicals considered harmful or dangerous to third countries, as it is the eu's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals we export do not cause harm to humans or the environment. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, with its amendments, considering that, in view of the provisions of the treaty of lisbon which give greater democracy to european institutional processes by strengthening the institutional role of the european parliament, the only european institution subject to direct universal suffrage, it is necessary that, as regards the delegated acts of the european commission, these should be subject to scrutiny by the european parliament in order to introduce greater democratic transparency into the institutional system of the european union.
in writing. - the present report by carlo casini concerns the proposal to amend rules 87a (delegated acts) and 88 (implementing acts) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, which were created with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, which profoundly changed the comitology procedure. article 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) provides for the adoption of measures to control the executive powers of the commission by the member states. the amendments to the rules of procedure and the request by the president of the ep to clarify the procedures for the rapid adoption of a delegated or implementing act make it urgent to speed up the codecision procedures. i am voting in favour of the amendments to rule 87a and rule 88 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, in particular the amendment to make the procedure for these acts that of a committee responsible without associated or jointly responsible committees.
in writing. − the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon brought a change in the comitology procedure, transforming it into a new system for the adoption of delegated and implementing acts (articles 290 and 291 tfeu). the implementation of article 290 was the subject of a non-binding agreement between the eu institutions. the common understanding on article 291 tfeu provides for the adoption of a regulation 'establishing in advance the general rules and principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers'. the report suggests changes to the comitology rule. the new article 87, in combination with the revised article 88, establishes the standard procedure to be followed. the rapporteur proposes the creation of a procedure that more clearly defines the rules for cases requiring rapid adoption of a delegated act or its implementation - which is a positive thing. another positive element of this proposal is the possibility for a political group or 40 members to challenge the decision of the committee responsible on the substance. it is important that there should be increased control of the commission's implementing powers. it would therefore be essential that the same could also be exercised by the national parliaments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending rules 87a and 88 of parliament's rules of procedure, which provide for a procedure which clarifies the procedures for adopting a delegated act or an implementing act, making the procedure more efficient and speedier.
in writing. − the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has profoundly changed the comitology process into a new system providing for the adoption of delegated and implementing acts. i voted in favour of this amendment to rules 87a and 88 of parliament's rules of procedure, which adapt the rules of procedure to this new reality. i would like to draw attention to the new article 87a which fills the existing gap by creating specific provisions for the procedures of associated committees or joint meetings.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to adapt the rules of procedure to the new system introduced by the treaty of lisbon for the exercise of implementing powers, which is now based, in accordance with articles 290 and 291 tfeu, on the adoption of delegated and implementing acts. more specifically, this concerned the need, already identified by the president of the european parliament, to provide for a procedure to clarify the modalities for the rapid adoption of a delegated act or an implementing act (whether for cases where there is only one competent committee, whether in the framework of procedures of associated committees or joint meetings of committees), adapting further, in the latter case, the rules of procedure to the provisions of the recent regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon brought a change in the comitology procedure, transforming it into a new system for the adoption of delegated and implementing acts (articles 290 and 291 tfeu). the implementation of article 290 was the subject of a non-binding agreement between the eu institutions. the common understanding on article 291 tfeu provides for the adoption of a regulation laying down in advance the general rules and principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. the casini report suggests changes to the comitology rule. the new article 87, in combination with the revised article 88, establishes the standard procedure to be followed. the rapporteur proposes the creation of a procedure that more clearly defines the rules for cases requiring rapid adoption of a delegated act or its implementation. the most positive element of this proposal is that a group (or 40 members) can challenge the decision of the committee responsible on the substance. what is contradictory in this process is that the ep gains this power at the expense of the european council and the national parliaments which have the power to control the action of governments.
in writing. − i approve this report, whereas it is also believed that in order to promote the public good of reducing litigation, promoting access to justice, ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market and ensuring an appropriate balance between freedom of expression and the right to privacy, the commission should carry out extensive consultations with interested parties, including journalists, the media and specialist lawyers and judges, with a view to proposing the establishment of a centre for the voluntary resolution of cross-border disputes arising from violations of privacy and personality rights, including defamation, through alternative dispute resolution (adr). i think this would be a much more progressive and 21st century approach to resolving such disputes and would facilitate the evolution to a more modern and pro-mediation justice culture.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which contains recommendations to the commission on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 864/2007 on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii), because i agree with the recitals in the preamble to the proposal and because they are consensual.
in writing. − if a person considers that his rights have been infringed by content posted on a website, he should be given the possibility to bring a civil liability action in order to be able to be compensated for the damage caused. however, the rome ii regulation does not contain provisions on the determination of the law applicable to violations of privacy and personality rights. this gap has contributed to the emergence of controversies in the context of defamation tourism, where the complainant chooses a jurisdiction that allows him a more favorable outcome - forum shopping. i therefore support this initiative which calls on the commission to put forward the necessary proposals to remedy this situation. i also consider the proposal for the creation of a centre for the voluntary settlement of crossborder disputes arising from violations of privacy and personality rights, including defamation, to be important. this should be another step towards the pursuit of a genuine european area of justice, which should always take into account the promotion of access to justice, ensure the proper functioning of the internal market and ensure an appropriate balance between freedom of expression and the right to privacy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendations made to the commission on non-contractual obligations (rome ii). the report calls on the commission to add a provision to the rome ii regulation governing the law applicable to a non-contractual obligation arising from the violation of privacy and personality rights, including defamation.
in writing. − considering that the rome ii regulation does not contain a provision on the determination of the law applicable to breaches of privacy and personality rights, it is important that it be amended to add a provision governing the law applicable to a non-contractual obligation arising from breaches of privacy and personality rights, including defamation. that is why i am accompanying the rapporteur.
in writing. − in recent years, the mobility of european citizens has increased exponentially, both because of their longevity and because of the enlargement of the european union to the east. along with this increased mobility, the data of each of us also knows fewer and fewer borders. the internet, particularly through social networks, puts our personal, professional and social data at the click of a mouse. if this situation makes it easy for the media, which can invade the privacy of many people without leaving their workplace, it makes citizens much more vulnerable. in fact, there is an increasing number of cases of international defamation and it is imperative to specify the legislation to be applied. the report under review contains recommendations to the commission on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 864/2007 on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii). while i understand that these amendments may have a negative impact on freedom of expression, i voted in favour of them because there must be a balance between the right to privacy and the right to information. i also welcome the proposal to create an alternative system for the settlement of disputes by mutual agreement.
in writing. - this report proposes an amendment to the regulation on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii), which basically seeks to clarify what legislation applies in cases of infringement of personality rights through content placed online or in print, if a person who considers that his rights have been infringed chooses to bring a civil liability action. the issue alleged for this need is the ease today for the complainant to choose to bring a defamation action in the jurisdiction which is considered most likely to produce a favourable outcome, the so-called defamation tourism. this appendix sets out clearer rules such as that the applicable law is the law of the country where the most significant element of the damage occurred, the law of the country where (in the case of a printed publication) the publication is mainly issued. the inalienable and non-transferable right of every individual to control the use of his or her body, name, image, privacy, etc., must be protected and guaranteed. it is noted that the addendum also contains a recital stating that this regulation does not prevent member states from applying their constitutional rules on freedom of the press... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report containing recommendations to the commission on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 864/2007 on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii), in particular in the context of the introduction of fundamental rights such as freedom of expression in the media, the right to privacy and other personality rights. without a clear adoption of these fundamental principles, the pillars of a democratic society cease to exist. in a democratic society, legal remedies and legal remedies should be available where these freedoms are abused, and each member state should ensure that such remedies exist and are effective in the event of a breach.
in writing. − the recommendations made in this report to the european commission are consensual. in agreeing also with the recitals on which those recommendations are based, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which contains recommendations to the commission on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 864/2007 on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii).
in writing. − this report contains some recommendations to the commission on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 864/2007 on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii). infringements of personality rights through content posted on a website are particularly concerned. in this way, a person who considers that his rights have been infringed has the option of bringing an action for civil liability for all the damage caused, either before the courts of the member state in which the publisher of that content is established or before the courts of the member state in which the centre of his interests is located. the aim is to add to the rome ii regulation a provision which defines the law applicable to a non-contractual obligation arising from violations of privacy and personality rights, including defamation.
in writing. − this report proposes an amendment to regulation no 864/2007 seeking to clarify the applicable legislation in cases of infringement of personality rights (the inalienable and non-transferable right of every individual to control the use of his or her body, name, image, privacy, among others) through content placed online or in print, should the person who considers that his or her rights have been infringed choose to bring a civil liability action. this need is justified by the ease with which the complainant can choose to bring a defamation action in the jurisdiction which is considered to be most likely to produce a favourable outcome, the so-called 'defamation tourism'. this addendum sets clearer rules, such as that the law applicable in the event of a legal complaint is the law of the country where the most significant element of the damage occurred, the law of the country where (in the case of a printed publication) the publication is issued in the largest number of copies and where it will have the greatest impact. the content of the report can help to clarify judicial procedures in these cases, while safeguarding the laws specific to each member state.
in writing. - i support this report, convinced that the commission's trade initiatives need to be supported by a stronger presence of eu trade authorities on the ground, and at the same time, i regret that the eu delegation has only one trade officer in tunisia and no presence in jordan, despite the aclga scoping exercises with these countries. the eu needs to fully coordinate its trade, investment and financing support activities in the region to ensure maximum positive impact, and it is of concern that the significant number of actors, both internally and within the eu, as well as in the partner countries themselves, and other external actors, could lead to waste or duplication of efforts due to lack of coordination. i would conclude by saying that without closer coordination between the european neighbourhood policy (enp) financing instruments, such as the enp investment facility, and the different eu and international and regional financial institutions in the region, including the eib, the ebrd and the world bank, we will not be able to ensure maximum effectiveness and coherence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that the arab spring - the biggest political transformation in europe's neighbourhood since the fall of the berlin wall - is an opportunity for the european union to align its foreign policy and trade interests with its core values of human rights, democracy and a free society, and that this resolution meets this wish.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates a new eu trade and investment strategy for the southern mediterranean, taking into account the socioeconomic changes brought about by the arab spring revolutions. trade and investment policy is an exclusive competence of the eu which must provide innovative instruments to achieve the goals of democracy, prosperity, stability and peace in the region.
in writing. the so-called arab spring was a breath of fresh air that swept through most of the countries on the southern shore of the mediterranean. civil society, imbued with a yearning for freedom and social justice, carried forward a revolution that overthrew various totalitarian regimes. however, in some countries we are beginning to see the floodgates of religious intolerance being opened by the muslim majority in defiance of the rights, freedoms and guarantees enshrined in the un declaration of human rights. it is intolerable that we should see negative discrimination against christians by the muslim majority when they used to live side by side. this report focuses on the eu's trade and investment strategy for the southern mediterranean following the arab spring revolutions. although the negotiations with morocco have not progressed as far as would be desirable, the fact is that an acp memorandum was approved last december with the countries of the southern mediterranean, with the aim of integrating them into the single market. the eu should continue to support these countries, in particular with regard to the implementation of the democratic process, the promotion of entrepreneurship and student mobility. but it must also demand absolute respect for human rights.
in writing. − the report aims to address the challenges for eu trade and investment policies in the wake of the democratic movements in the middle east and north africa. the rapporteur characterises the movements as an unparalleled historical event and as an opportunity to open up the economies of the region and create a true market economy, whether or not this is the choice of the peoples concerned. the report makes a slight criticism of the role of the eu and its member states in maintaining relations with the dictatorships of the regions for decades (dictatorships, yes, but market economies too, according to the criteria in force). the report points to the fragility (social, economic as well as democratic) of the situation in the different countries, but at the same time explains that the eu is the largest consumer market in the world, to which access should only be granted if the partner countries are seriously committed to bilateral market opening. the idea is that the global and deep free trade agreements are the right way forward for the social and economic development of these regions. the whole report is inspired by the neoliberal vision of free trade. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − the arab spring is the biggest political transformation in the european neighbourhood since the fall of the berlin wall and provides the eu with the opportunity to align its foreign policy and trade interests with its core values of human rights, democracy and a free society. the arab spring is a unique opportunity for the eu to make a serious commitment and show political leadership. it only obliges us to continue to make a more determined effort to liberalize trade and to create investment opportunities. this strategy should be fully aligned with policies in other policy areas, in order to create training opportunities for entrepreneurs, promote participation in eu programmes and facilitate access to visas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the arab spring to be an unparalleled historical event, prompted by the aspirations of the peoples for freedom, democratic rights and improved living conditions. i welcome the fair and transparent elections that have taken place in several north african countries, accompanied by economic, legal and social reforms that make it possible to envisage the unity of these countries through the building of democratic and pluralist institutions, thus creating the basis for greater stability and development. however, i could not help but reflect in my vote the rejection of paragraph 15 of the report, because i believe that the margin for negotiations on agriculture between the eu and this group of countries must be properly weighed up, otherwise there will be too much political enthusiasm on the part of the eu which will unduly penalize european agricultural producers.
in writing. − the arab spring is the biggest political transformation in the european neighbourhood since the fall of the berlin wall and has provided the eu with the opportunity to align its foreign policy and trade interests. in this way, the results achieved in terms of democratic reforms and individual freedoms should be reflected in a similar process of economic liberalisation. this is where the eu will have an important role to play, provided that the appropriate political, social and environmental commitments are made and implemented by the countries of the southern mediterranean (sme). some of the proposals in this report concern both the eib and the ebrd. the first is essential in helping smes by providing micro-credit. the second must draw on the experience gained in eastern europe to make its contribution. the creation of the euromed free trade area and the facilitation of knowledge and direct contacts through the exchange of both students and european business communities and smes are also part of the set of objectives to be achieved. as this is a unique opportunity for the eu to show its political leadership, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to play a more effective role in the fight against terrorism. but it is worth remembering that the nature of the previous regimes has not bothered the eu so far, nor have its governments, which have established such deep relations with them. it should be remembered that ben ali's party was, until it was overthrown by the struggle of the tunisian people, a member of the socialist international. the european commission says the report advocates the concept of 'more for more', i.e. that democratic reforms and individual freedoms should be reflected in a process of 'liberation' in the economic and trade spheres, through the consolidation of the euro-mediterranean free trade area. it therefore advocates the use of the infamous free trade agreements, which have proved to this day that they only mean the loss of the sovereignty of peoples, the appropriation by multinationals of natural resources and biodiversity, the increase in external dependence on third countries and the disaster in productive sectors in some member states, particularly those like portugal which have a more fragile economic situation.
in writing. − i welcome this report, starting with the recognition of the important role played by the eip in supporting innovation, competitiveness and economic growth in europe and that patents favour the dissemination of valuable technical information and are an important instrument for technology transfer. however, the commission, in coordination with the member states, should address in its next report the issue of the potential repercussions of the granting of patents on plant breeding methods and the consequent impact on the plant breeding sector, agriculture, the food industry and food safety.
in writing. − intellectual property rights are essential to stimulate the development of new plant varieties and plant-related innovations and are a necessary precondition for boosting growth and innovation, as well as helping european businesses, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), to cope with the economic crisis and global competition.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution, tabled following a statement by the commission pursuant to rule 110 (2), deals with the grant of patents relating to essential biological processes. each year some 800 patent applications are filed, which in a few years amounts to thousands. although there are provisions for the registration of patents, we need greater legal clarity in this area. patents should obviously be protected, since such registration protects the inventor, encourages research and stimulates the economy. however, not everything about genetic manipulation should be allowed. natural products such as plants and animals should not be patentable and only crossbreeding by traditional methods should be allowed. it's the future of the planet at stake. we need a climate of honesty, because life cannot be patented. i voted in favour of this report because i am in favour of greater transparency in the process - companies cannot falsify data or use tricks - and only something that is new and relevant to humanity should be allowed to be registered.
in writing. - we do not fully follow some of the considerations made in the resolution concerning intellectual property rights, as well as the reference to the eip and its framework in the field of competitiveness. but overall this resolution is positive, and indeed contains important clarifications. it aims to prevent abuses of the rules on patenting living things and processes involving the improvement of living things or parts of living things. the defence of the non-patentability of agricultural processes such as the breeding of species and of newly created varieties is of great importance, seeking to ensure that farmers can continue to use age-old breeding processes and have access to their products without being dependent on multinationals. it is necessary to ensure the free flow of scientific information and to prevent the obtaining of disproportionate profits from biological processes or from their manipulation. the exclusion of the possibility of patenting essentially biological processes and the results of such processes is also positive, calling for reflection on the consequences of patenting. the resolution recalls the commission's lack of responsibility for reporting on the evolution and implications of patent rights in the field of biotechnology and genetic engineering, the frequency of which is defined in directive 98/44/ec as annual... (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - i believe that essential biological processes are natural heritage, the heritage of mankind, and therefore can never be patented or declared to be the property of private individuals. the resolution is mainly aimed at excluding from patentability several of these processes, namely essentially biological processes for obtaining plants (or animals) as well as products derived from conventional breeding and all conventional methods of breeding, including breeding using advanced reproductive technologies and markers (smart or precision breeding), as well as genetic material used for conventional breeding. that is why i voted in favour. i should add, however, that i consider patents to be often a hindrance to the transfer of technology.
in writing. - considering that intellectual property rights are essential to stimulate growth and innovation and that patent protection which is too broad is likely to constitute an obstacle to innovation and progress, i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament resolution on the granting of patents relating to essential biological processes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that intellectual property rights are essential to stimulate the development of new plant varieties and plant-related innovations. indeed, such recognition is a necessary precondition for boosting growth and innovation.
in writing. the resolution is concerned with the granting of patents on essential biological processes. intellectual property rights are essential to stimulate the development of new plant varieties and associated innovations. they are also a necessary precondition for boosting growth and innovation and helping european businesses to cope with the economic crisis and global competition. however, patent protection that is too broad is likely to constitute an obstacle to innovation and progress and to harm small and medium-sized livestock breeders by blocking access to animal and plant genetic resources. in order to treat differently what is different, i believe that patents can be granted in the field of genetic engineering, but that the prohibition of patents relating to plant varieties and animal breeds must be safeguarded, considering that the production of plants is essential to the security of food supply and, to some extent, to the supply of energy. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. the resolution aims to prevent abuses of the rules on patenting living organisms and processes involving the improvement of living organisms or parts of them. the defence of the non-patentability of agricultural processes such as the breeding of species and of newly created varieties is of great importance, seeking to ensure that farmers can continue to use age-old breeding processes and have access to their products without being dependent on multinationals. it is essential to ensure the free flow of scientific information and to prevent the obtaining of disproportionate profits from biological processes or from their manipulation.
in writing. - i welcome this report, stressing the importance of close cooperation with the imo on naval capacity building with the work being done towards the conclusion of an eu-imo strategic partnership to combat piracy throughout the horn of africa. i also believe that the use of private armed guards is a measure which cannot replace the necessary global solution to the multifaceted threat posed by piracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution for urging the eu high representative to make more efforts to secure the release of the more than 200 hostages currently held in captivity, victims of piracy off the coast of somalia and in the western indian ocean. the union should actively contribute to the establishment of an international tribunal specialised in combating maritime piracy.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) and (4) of the rules of procedure, replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the following groups: alde, ecr, s&d and ppe, on maritime piracy. the transport of goods by sea remains the most widely used mode of transport worldwide. however, in recent years we have witnessed a phenomenon that takes us back to the 16th and 17th centuries, to the time of the discoveries: piracy. piracy has been a major risk at sea for centuries and continues to pose a danger and insecurity to many ships sailing the oceans. we all remember the recent phenomenon of piracy off the coast of somalia. the european union has taken measures and is taking part in actions to prevent this phenomenon, which we can call maritime terrorism. i voted in favour of this report because, in addition to recommending that the member states protect their fleets, it seeks to tackle the problem at its source, that is, in the ports from which pirates depart, by promoting the economic development of these regions, since these are very poor communities with a high rate of emigration.
in writing. - the majority of this parliament reiterates its unacceptable militarist and openly meddling positions in this resolution. the resolution supports the extension and strengthening of the eu operation eunavfor atalanta and 'enhanced coordination' with the nato operation to combat piracy. but it does not explain the real causes of this phenomenon. it ignores the responsibilities of several european countries, the usa and nato for the serious problems facing the people of somalia and other countries in the region, which are at the origin of the so-called piracy. we know the interest that the region arouses. it is rich in natural resources, particularly in fisheries, and is important for international trade, the horn of africa and the gulf of aden connect the suez canal to the indian ocean, making it the fastest route between asia and europe. the solution to the problems of the region lies in respecting somalia's sovereignty over its resources and its eez. for the immediate withdrawal of the eu and nato mission. the break with the so-called structural adjustment policies of the imf and the world bank, which from the 1990s onwards led to the collapse of the country's fragile economy, putting its sovereignty and food security at risk.
in writing. − piracy is a threat to international security and regional stability and should be seen as an international organised crime, but also as an economic problem, since it threatens international commercial sea lanes and has a considerable negative impact on international trade. in this connection, i welcome the motion for a resolution in which i voted in favour, stressing the need for immediate and effective measures to crack down on and punish persons suspected of acts of piracy and for third countries and eu member states to transpose into their national law all the provisions of the united nations convention on the law of the sea and the united nations convention for the suppression of unlawful acts against the safety of maritime navigation in order to combat the impunity of pirates.
in writing. - maritime piracy is now a phenomenon that is becoming more widespread and frequent, more organised and profitable, more audacious and violent, to which no vessel seems to be immune, from fishing boats and merchant ships to yachts and cruises. the safety and freedom of persons are seriously affected, all maritime activities and the economy suffer enormous losses. in 2009, the commission systematised its action in two stages: prevention, deterrence and repression, and also tackling the causes of piracy. the commission should extend its military action beyond 2012 and step up its diplomatic action to obtain effective cooperation from third countries hosting pirates. the member states will have to make efforts in the area of criminal investigation and justice, particularly in establishing conditions for the prosecution of pirates. for all these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution and i hope that concerted action by the commission, the member states and other countries and regions of the world will restore safety at sea, which, as far as fisheries are concerned, affects both industrial fleets and small local vessels, affecting the economy of the european union.
in writing. the resolution calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's military presence in somalia is not compromised. the majority of meps reiterate militaristic and interventionist positions to promote the domination of big capital and the eu's major powers over the region's natural resources, particularly in the fisheries sector, and over one of the most important regions for international trade (the horn of africa and the gulf of aden link the suez canal to the indian ocean, which is the fastest route between asia and european countries). we stand for the sovereignty of somalia, including over its eez, and for a peaceful political solution to the internal conflict, free from any external interference. we are in favour of the immediate withdrawal of the eu and nato mission, of which portugal is also a member. we defend the right of peoples to food sovereignty and food security, rejecting the so-called trade liberalization in the framework of the wto or other instruments such as the epas, and the structural adjustment policies imposed by the imf and the world bank.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr barnier, for the work he has done in general. a fully functioning internal market ensures more jobs, more trade transactions, enables more informed consumers with access to a greater variety, quality and reliability of goods and services, and small and medium-sized enterprises more robust and better able to face globalisation. to this end, the role of the member states is crucial, not only at the legislative production stage, which must be appropriate, innovative and inventive, but also at the transposition stage into the internal legal orders. and that's where the problems come in. member states sometimes take the transposition deadline much longer than the two years stipulated, which seriously undermines the functioning of this market of 500 million citizens and makes it impossible for rules to enter into force. other member states have incorrectly or insufficiently transposed directives, which causes enormous problems of interpretation and application of the rules in the european market. the 2011 internal market governance communication brings together the governance life cycle in a single document. the holistic approach has long been advocated by parliament, particularly in the grech report, and it now allows us to have a fuller and more comprehensive view of the obstacles to the full functioning of the internal market. the resistance of the member states, the inertia and sometimes the lack of commitment to good transposition must be actively combated by the european commission, the european parliament and by active scrutiny by the national parliaments, let us not forget. solvit, which has a crucial role in the extrajudicial resolution of problems faced by citizens and businesses as a result of the malfunctioning of the internal market, must be given as soon as possible a legal basis to enable it to exploit its full potential and to respond fully to challenges, complementing the work of the european commission in the field of infringement proceedings. the annual governance report, alongside the internal market forum, which was initially suggested by my colleague mr grech and was crowned with success at its first edition in krakow in october 2011, should henceforth be a benchmark for the development of the internal market. this forum, or, as commissioner barnier has now called it, single market week, which it is desirable to organise, is of enormous importance in assessing progress and the obstacles to the development of the internal market. in addition to the data that the governance report provides us with, it brings together in the same physical space a number of actors, legislators, consumers, business people and other stakeholders who will thus be able to audit the functioning of the internal market and have a better understanding of their rights and developments in this area. finally, i would like to express my surprise at a proposal by the rapporteur, which came out on the eve of the vote in committee, after a fruitful debate lasting more than six months, which advocates the creation of an independent body from the commission which would be responsible for infringement proceedings in the internal market and would be competent to initiate infringement proceedings after approval by the college of commissioners: an internal market prosecutor. this is a very complex proposal which requires a thorough debate, which has not yet taken place, and clarification of the legal nature of this body, its powers and its modus operandi. we regret that this complex proposal has come so late, making it impossible to debate it, and that our receptivity in these circumstances is therefore limited in this respect.
madam president, this report makes some very interesting points. it says, for example, that the success of the internal market is a key driver for increasing competitiveness and growth and one of the best ways to solve the economic crisis. these considerations may be interesting but they are only interesting from the perspective of large economic and financial capital. these considerations have certainly not taken account of the economic and social development of the peripheral countries and their peoples. it is because these countries are experiencing the greatest difficulties today, in a period of crisis, as a result of their economic weakness, to which the construction of the internal market has contributed greatly, which is a surprise. the internal market, i.e. the policies of liberalization, privatisation and deregulation of the economy, have meant for the economically most vulnerable countries the destruction of their productive capacity, the decline of their exports, the increase of imports in sectors such as energy and food, which have left them in situations of extreme external dependence. what were the consequences of the internal market for countries like my own, portugal? the increasing number of enterprises closing, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, the destruction of thousands of jobs, the increase in levels of poverty, exclusion and inequalities, the loss of workers' rights and the generalization of precariousness in labour relations, the privatization of energy, transport, postal, telecommunications, banking, insurance sectors, the liberalization of essential public services. it is that in the perspective of the internal market there is no freedom for people to have social rights and a dignified life. from the perspective of the internal market, and those who defend it, there is only the free movement of goods and capital. the workers of the various european countries have been fighting courageously for their freedoms, for their social and economic rights and demanding a different direction from the current policies.
mr president, on june 17th the greek people will vote: it's your future, your life that you're going to choose. it is on this freedom that europe is built. trichet's statements at the g8 meeting are therefore unacceptable. in practice, the former president of the european central bank proposed that a people could lose the right to vote, that a democratically elected government which refuses austerity could be replaced by a constellation of commissioners from brussels. the blackmailing of the budgetary treaty is equally unacceptable. for us, europe is democracy, it is solidarity between peoples. it is not, and cannot be, the forced impoverishment of populations. that is why i ask all of you, ladies and gentlemen, whether you are prepared to accept this colonial regime. the answer from the european citizens will certainly be democracy.
mr president, in recent weeks portugal has experienced yet another social and civilizational setback. with the sponsorship of the european union and the imf and the signature of the national parties that accept, defend and implement a genuine pact of aggression against the country and its people. the amendments to the labour law strike at historic achievements of the workers and deal another severe blow to an already fragile democracy. facilitation of dismissals, reduction of compensation, reduction of additional pay and days off, reduction of holiday days and abolition of holidays, i.e. forced and unpaid work, attempt to generalize precarious contracts and to dismantle collective bargaining. it will be millions of euros more than will be extorted from portuguese workers. at the same time, more jobs are being eliminated, possibly more than 90,000, at a time when unemployment is already at historic levels. it's not too late to break from this path. now is the time to do it. the thousands of people who will again be filling the streets of lisbon next saturday will confirm this once again.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. much can be said about the importance of small and mediumsized enterprises in helping economic growth and job creation. whatever one says, what is certain is that the application of the so-called austerity measures leads daily to the strangulation, suffocation and destruction of thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises. until a break is made and the path of recessionary policies is reversed, it will be impossible to promote economic development and job creation. the declarations of intent to make austerity and growth incompatible, which today permeates the political field from the right to social democracy, are nothing more than the creation of illusions, an attempt to escape, to try to hide with beautiful but innocuous words the dramatic and objective consequences of the so-called austerity policies. the example of the measures imposed by the troika in portugal is a good example of this social drama. since the implementation of these measures a year ago, 203,500 jobs have been destroyed in portugal, which corresponds to 558 jobs destroyed every day. many of these unemployed are unemployed in smes, small and mediumsized enterprises which have closed down because of bankruptcy, but it could not be otherwise. and that's so logical that any child understands. the reduction in wages and pensions and the increase in indirect taxes, i.e. on products sold by small and mediumsized enterprises, lead to a decline in consumption and subsequent closure of small and mediumsized enterprises. but it is the european commission itself, which together with the imf and the ecb determines these measures which brutally affect the small and mediumsized portuguese economy, which is now telling us about the need to support small and mediumsized enterprises. yes, it is important to support the creation of small and mediumsized enterprises, but it would also be logical not to apply political measures which are at this very moment condemning existing small and mediumsized enterprises to bankruptcy. support for small and mediumsized enterprises must be provided by public support, which is made available by reversing the process of monopolizing the economy, which was aggravated by the creation of the single market, which benefited large capital within countries and multinationals. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial interests are protected. as regards community funds, they must be made more accessible to smes by simplifying and streamlining procedures, ensuring timely payment and positive discrimination against areas and sectors facing particular difficulties.
in writing. in the european union there are some 23 000 small and mediumsized enterprises which play a key role in the growth and development of our geographical area. according to the national institute of statistics, portugal has an unemployment rate of 14.9%, with 36.2% among young people. at the end of the european council in january 2012, the president of the ec suggested that member states should restructure €82 billion of eu funds, and portugal has already presented its strategic plan. it is therefore essential that the ec should act quickly on this so that it can enter into force quickly. recently, here in this very room in strasbourg, the european commission presented a new package of measures aimed at creating more job opportunities and supporting entrepreneurship. i believe that smes should have easier access to the new package of measures and an action plan should be drawn up with defined objectives and metrics for its implementation. finally, i would like to take up the words of the president of the european commission: europe needs a strategy for job creation to deal with unacceptable levels of unemployment. the eu has a significant potential for job creation which has yet to be exploited.
in writing. - i approve this report, reinforcing the logic that the de-bureaucratization of a more effective and efficient europe is what really matters for a europe of growth and jobs. we need a europe that responds to the common challenges of the european union and the individual member states. this proposal, by reducing the number of commemorative coins in circulation, will only facilitate the administrative procedures involved by reducing their quantity, and at the same time increase the value of each commemorative coin.
in writing. − the report specifies the rules that must be complied with by the member states for euro coins to be valid and in circulation, since the designs of the national sides of euro coins are decided by each member state. member states should be allowed to issue commemorative coins to celebrate themes of major national or european significance. the proposal in this report to reduce the number of commemorative coins in circulation will simplify administrative procedures and, because of their rarity, increase their value. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that its content is beneficial and will clarify the rules necessary for the circulation of euro coins.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the reduction in the number of commemorative coins in circulation will simplify the administrative procedures involved and lead to an increase in the value of commemorative coins.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it proposes a set of rules on the face values and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation. i welcome the reduction in the number of commemorative coins in circulation. the rarer they are, the higher their value. it will also make it possible to simplify administrative procedures.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and i fully agree with his position on the reduction in the issuance of commemorative coins, which will not only reduce administrative costs but also increase the value of the coins.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to establish common principles for the designs used on the national sides of euro coins intended for circulation, as well as for the exchange of information on such designs and their approval. the regulation provides that it is for the member state to draw up a design for use on the national side of the euro coin, which must be approved by the other member states before it is issued, taking into account that euro coins circulate in all participating member states, although the final approval is given by the commission. standards are also laid down for commemorative coins issued collectively by all participating member states. it is unacceptable that the portuguese version of this report has not been made available until the vote in plenary. this is yet another intolerable disregard for the principle of multilingualism, which we are denouncing here. unfortunately, these abuses have been happening more frequently since budget cuts were made in translation expenditure. we warned of its potential effects at the time. as a form of protest, we abstained from the final vote.
in writing. - it is up to the member states to define the designs they wish to put on their coins intended for circulation. i agree with the new technical specifications which lead to a reduction in the bureaucracy involved in completing the procedures and promote the reduction of the number of commemorative coins issued in order to increase their value.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which aims to reduce the number of commemorative coins in circulation, as this should allow the simplification of the administrative procedures involved and, given their future scarcity, increase the value of each of the commemorative coins.
in writing. − this report specifies the rules that must be complied with by the member states for euro coins to be valid and in circulation, since the designs of the national sides of euro coins are decided by each member state. member states should be allowed to issue commemorative coins to celebrate themes of major national or european significance. the proposal in this report to reduce the number of commemorative coins in circulation will simplify administrative procedures and, because of their rarity, increase their value. i voted in favour of the proposed measures.
in writing. the european commission has presented a proposal to amend regulation no 975/98 of 3 may 1998 on the denominations and technical specifications of euro coins intended for circulation. since euro coins circulate throughout the euro area, the design features of the national sides are a matter of common interest. i support this report, which aims to reduce the number of commemorative coins, thereby simplifying administrative procedures and increasing the value of the acts commemorated. i also believe that the european commission should inform the member states and the european central bank of its conclusions.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to establish common principles for the designs used on the national sides of euro coins intended for circulation, as well as for the exchange of information on such designs and their approval. the regulation provides that it is for the member state to draw up a design for use on the national side of the euro coin, which must be approved by the other member states before it is issued, taking into account that euro coins circulate in all participating member states, although the final approval is given by the commission. it also lays down rules for commemorative coins issued collectively by all participating member states, which should be reserved for topics of high relevance at european level, with the euro 2 coin being recommended as the most appropriate for this purpose.
in writing. - i approve this report, reinforcing the framework of the european union's common security strategy following the treaty of lisbon, which requires our system to evolve from a purely intergovernmental policy to a union policy with a strong parliamentary dimension, both by the european parliament and by national parliaments, so as to define jointly the priorities for internal security and their strategies, and the strengthening of the role of the democratic dimension should be a matter of pride for the european union, as fundamental rights should be at the heart of an internal security strategy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the internal security strategy of the european union, as it favours strengthening the link between internal security and external security in general and in cyberspace in particular.
in writing. − the new crime landscape is characterised by the existence of highly mobile and flexible criminal networks operating in various criminal jurisdictions and sectors, aided by new technological trends and the widespread use of the internet. the eu must be prepared to respond appropriately as security threats emerge and evolve, with the involvement of the ep in defining policy guidelines and in implementing and evaluating results, and with the need for cooperation between member states to deal effectively with these challenges greater than ever. five priorities have been identified for the next five years: the fight against organised crime, terrorism, cybercrime, strengthening border management and the eu's resilience to crises and disasters. it is important not only to strengthen the instruments at the eu's disposal to combat crime, but also to implement and apply those already in place, e.g. member states still do not fully implement the instruments for the exchange of information; the various instruments of police and judicial cooperation have not yet been ratified and applied by all member states; the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of personal data.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it clarifies the importance of a comprehensive approach to the eu security strategy, based on a holistic concept of human security anchored in human rights, freedom, democracy, the rule of law, good governance and peace. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the internal security strategy should include a parliamentary dimension and not be limited to an intergovernmental policy issue, as both european and national parliaments have an active role in setting priorities and evaluating eu policies.
in writing. − we live in a complex world with diverse and varied threats, such as terrorism, serious international crime, the mafia, cybercrime, economic crime, money laundering and corruption, and natural disasters themselves, and failures in existing infrastructure. all these threats, although very different, call into question the security of european citizens and that is why the institutions must have a clear strategy to ensure that the eu remains an area of freedom and justice, but also of security. as the report says, the charter of fundamental rights must be the basis of a sound internal security strategy, in accordance with the principles enshrined in the treaty, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. - this report is based on the guidelines of the stockholm programme and the path opened up by the lisbon treaty in this field. it is considered that eu security policy must be anchored in a specific eu legal order, subject to supervision at european level. this is the starting point for developing an eu internal security strategy, which protects the eu from terrorism and other threats. in the present context, many of the possible implications of this view are evident. this is all the more so when we consider that any security policy must include a preventive element, which is particularly indispensable at a time when economic and social inequalities are worsening. . . . but it goes on to suggest that eu security measures ... [should] focus on enforcing specific legislation and on intelligence-based activities with proven capacity to reduce crime rates and prevent terrorist attacks. despite some statements on human rights and the principle of subsidiarity, the whole report is geared towards a security and repressive approach which does not help to tackle the causes of terrorism effectively. the gue/ngl has long been opposed to this view. we voted against it.
in writing. − the internal security strategy (iss) for 2010-14 identified five priority areas where the eu can add value, namely in the fight against and prevention of serious and organised crime, terrorism and cybercrime, in strengthening external border management and in building resilience to natural and man-made disasters. in any case, i believe that freedom, security and justice are objectives which must be pursued in parallel, and that the implementation of the eu charter must therefore form the basis of any sound internal security strategy. to succeed and achieve freedom and justice, security must always be guaranteed in accordance with the principles enshrined in the treaty, the rule of law and the union's obligations in respect of fundamental rights. it is the pursuit of these objectives that will make the european union's internal security strategy a success.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's proposals on the internal security strategy of the european union, stressing the need to recognise parliament as a full-fledged institutional actor in security policy matters and therefore entitled to participate actively in defining the characteristics and priorities of the internal security strategy and the eu security model and in evaluating these instruments, in particular through regular monitoring exercises on the implementation of the internal security strategy, carried out jointly by the ep, national parliaments and the council.
in writing. − any security policy must integrate a preventive dimension and in a period of increasing economic and social inequalities this preventive aspect is particularly important. despite the financial constraints in the context of the crisis we are living in, i stress that it is essential to include in the multiannual framework 2014-2020 adequate financial resources for the implementation of this strategy through the respective fund.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal lists the most urgent challenges to the internal security of the european union which should be integrated into a strategy for the coming years. this strategy is based on five main objectives to combat large-scale crime, organised crime, cybercrime, natural disasters and border security. in this context, the fight against terrorism also remains a high priority for the eu's internal security. it also sets out specific actions for the period 2011-2014 in addition to those already under way, which it is hoped will also contribute to strengthening cooperation and the link between the internal and external dimensions of european security. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report takes account of the provisions of the stockholm programme and the treaty of lisbon, in particular the considerations that eu security policy must be anchored in a specific eu legal order, subject to what they call democratic oversight at not only national but also mainly european level. it thus establishes an eu internal security strategy that is said to protect the eu from terrorism and other threats. although the document is tempered with some statements that human rights and the principle of subsidiarity must be respected, the report in general is aimed at creating a security and repressive strategy, with little emphasis on prevention, focusing on strengthening the conditions of punishment, which often means, in the eu, the criminalization of all social movements and forces that do not allow themselves to be guided by the dictates of the eu, and also a control of the lives of citizens, undermining their fundamental freedoms and guarantees. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that criminal law is different from many other areas, which by definition restricts certain human and fundamental rights of the accused. this report sets out principles and parameters to be taken into account in the development of criminal law, with interinstitutional mechanisms to make it more efficient and with respect for the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the united nations, and in my view the european union can and should be the bulwark of the defence of human and fundamental rights in the world.
in writing. - the coordination between the council, the commission and parliament in matters relating to criminal law is essential. in the future these institutions will certainly establish a common framework which may include a set of principles which will serve as a basis for any criminal law instrument. this framework may contain precise guidelines for the internal procedures adopted in each of the institutions with a view to ensuring a coherent approach. i voted in favour of this report because it is in line with what i said earlier.
in writing. − criminal law is a sensitive area where differences between national systems remain substantial. however, given the cross-border nature of many offences, it is essential that criminal law measures are adopted at eu level to prevent criminals from hiding behind borders or taking advantage of differences in national legal systems. the existence of minimum rules also contributes to the strengthening of mutual trust between member states which is essential not only for good cooperation between their authorities but also for the effective functioning of the principle of mutual recognition. we must take advantage of the new possibilities offered by the lisbon treaty to develop a uniform, coherent and transparent eu criminal law that brings real added value to our citizens, by strengthening their confidence in exercising their right to free movement and to acquire goods or services from other member states. i therefore support this report, which contributes to the debate on the development of a genuine common eu legal culture in the fight against crime, which, without replacing national legal traditions, can complement them and strengthen mutual trust.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the question of criminal law in the eu context. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, criminal law becomes part of the eu's competences. unfortunately, parliament does not have a coordinating role and is not competent to deal with all legislative proposals containing criminal law provisions, since these have to be transposed into national law. i welcome the principles and parameters set out in this report to be taken into account in the drafting of criminal law: the creation of mechanisms to facilitate interinstitutional cooperation, full respect for the eu charter as well as other international human rights instruments, and the creation of checks for human rights solidarity campaigns.
in writing. - for many years criminal law was considered to be the exclusive competence of the member states, which was only changed by the maastricht treaty in 1992. since then, the eu has been creating a set of criminal rules which do not always fit together in the way that would be most appropriate. at present, eu criminal law includes a wide range of rules that are not just jha policy instruments, but that range from the financial sector to fraud, counterfeiting, serious breaches of eu data protection rules, customs offences, environmental offences and certain aspects of internal market policies. these are, as you can see, very diverse policy areas and it is nevertheless essential to ensure consistency and quality for effective application of eu criminal law.
in writing. - there is a lot of ground to cover in the field of judicial cooperation, criminal investigation and the fight against crime in general. some steps have been taken in this area, but others could and should still be taken. the increase in the movement of people and capital, as well as the various forms of cross-border crime, including economic crime, makes this necessary. cooperation between member states should also be extended to the area of policies to prevent high economic crime, an area where the political will to do more and better has been lacking. but the report goes beyond this approach, proposing a harmonization in criminal matters, which we find unacceptable. this is an area in which the member states should retain their sovereignty. we do not accept the harmonization of criminal policies or the establishment of common criminal codes. that is why we voted against this report.
in writing. − the entry into force of the lisbon treaty has brought new challenges to the development and integration of criminal law into eu law. in the case of criminal law, a field of law which may restrict the rights, freedoms and guarantees of the accused and/or the convicted person, we must always take account of the procedure for verifying the necessity. the eu will therefore have to act with great caution in developing additional provisions or revising existing criminal provisions to ensure that certain human rights and fundamental freedoms are never affected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the de jong report on 'a european perspective on criminal law' because it provides a good analysis of the stage of construction of a european criminal law, to which the treaty of lisbon has given renewed importance. indeed, the growing european integration not only in the economic field but also in the field of 'freedom, security and justice' cannot do without a dimension of integration of criminal law and criminal procedural law. the charter of fundamental rights of the union, which protects european citizens against the union itself, may also need criminal instruments of protection. the progressive establishment of a 'federal' criminal law is also an essential pillar in the construction of a genuine european 'political community', the basis for the constitutionalisation of the european union.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur's concern that there is a risk that the adoption of new legislation will not lead to better control, undermining the credibility and efficiency of substantive eu criminal law. the eu will therefore have to act with great caution in developing additional provisions or revising existing criminal provisions. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, a basis has been created for the development and integration of criminal law into eu law. this is a very sensitive area and it is essential that the eu institutions improve their internal structures and agree working principles and methods in order to ensure the quality and consistency of the eu's approach to criminal law. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the financial interests of the european communities and the european investment bank is based on the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. − the eu has not developed a distinct area for criminal law provisions, and these do not only integrate instruments in the area of justice and home affairs, but also many other policy areas of the union. with the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, the pillar structure disappeared and a basis was established for the development of criminal law as an integral part of eu law. it is therefore important to know how to ensure consistency and quality in a legal area which seems to integrate such diverse policy areas. to ensure the high quality and consistency of the eu's approach to criminal law, not only would the internal structures in each of the three eu institutions need to be improved, but the relevant working principles and methods would also need to be agreed between them.
in writing. − this report lists a number of general principles governing criminal law and stresses that harmonisation measures should be proposed to support the application of the principle of mutual recognition, supporting the creation of a common legal culture in the eu in the fight against crime. in our view, criminal matters are an area which is exclusively a matter for the sovereign action and policies of the various states. we therefore do not advocate the harmonization of criminal policies and the establishment of common criminal codes. in this respect, there are other avenues to be explored in the fight against crime, such as judicial cooperation, cooperation in the investigation and fight against crime. on the other hand, the promotion of policies that lead to the reduction of social inequalities and the promotion of important social, economic and labour rights would be fundamental to the prevention of crime. this has definitely not been the way forward in the european union.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that a new consumer protection agenda, which emphasises the protection of vulnerable consumers in the european union, is urgently needed. in taking into account the different needs, skills and circumstances of consumers, in fact, in my view, it is imperative to consider consumer vulnerability as a key task of this new agenda, and more consumer information and awareness campaigns should be provided.
in writing. − the european union's consumer policy should be ambitious and provide a high level of protection, with particular attention to vulnerable consumers. this report, which has my full support, calls on the european commission and the member states to introduce specific measures in their legislation to ensure adequate protection for vulnerable consumers. in addition to the authorities, companies and suppliers should be involved in order to make contractual balancing more transparent and less opaque. the report also draws attention to the vulnerability of older consumers in the context of the digitalisation of services. the establishment of a strategy to strengthen the rights of the most vulnerable consumers will contribute to their social inclusion and to progress towards a fairer and more tolerant society, as well as to ensuring a more dynamic, secure and competitive internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the creation of a strategy to strengthen the rights of the most vulnerable consumers, enabling them to participate in the single market, contributing not only to their social inclusion and to progress towards a fairer and more tolerant society, but also to ensuring a more dynamic, secure and competitive internal market.
in writing. - there are 500 million consumers in europe, where consumer spending represents 56% of eu gdp. consumers in full use of their rights, properly protected and able to benefit from the single market can make a significant contribution to stimulating innovation and growth in the context of a more dynamic, efficient and fair internal market. it is essential that eu consumer policy can pay particular attention to the specific needs of the most vulnerable consumers, through a specific strategy to strengthen their capacity to make effective and autonomous decisions. it should be borne in mind that all consumers are liable to become vulnerable consumers throughout their lives, and this may result from temporary or permanent causes inherent in their physical or psychological situation, or from external causes such as lack of knowledge of the language, use of new technologies, etc. in this way, the issue of consumer vulnerability should be subject to a horizontal approach and take into account their different needs, capacities and circumstances. specific measures should be adopted to ensure adequate protection, going beyond mere information, especially in certain areas such as telecommunications, access to justice, food, financial services, etc.
in writing. − consumer rights and their protection in community law is one of the main pillars of the functioning of the internal market. i believe that adequate consumer protection and safety is fundamental to the proper functioning of markets and trade, which is essential for competitiveness and growth. however, some consumers, out of all consumers, deserve particular protection, since they are considered to be the most vulnerable for various reasons (children, adolescents, the elderly, people with disabilities, etc.). while i recognize this need, i also believe that strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers is essentially about strengthening the obligations to provide correct information to the market, taking into account the special needs of each group.
in writing. − this report follows on from a previous report by a gue/ngl rapporteur on consumer protection, focusing on the specific case of vulnerable consumers a complex concept, which it defines broadly and comprehensively. the rapporteur proposes that the european commission and the member states develop strategies to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers (in areas such as telecommunications, access to justice, energy, transport, etc.). suggestions are made, for example, for a strengthening of pre-contractual and contractual information requirements; a strengthened right of withdrawal if the seller does not transmit the information in a clear and comprehensible manner, among others. the concept of vulnerable consumers includes children, the elderly and women. special attention is proposed for specific conditions, such as those of people without access to the internet or those with disabilities. the commission also proposes tougher advertising rules, better informing on the risks and not overestimating any benefits, even referring to the particular case of financial products. we appreciate that the amendments proposed by our group have been accepted by a majority. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i believe that consumer protection is always a matter of concern to all of us, so that we can continue to build an increasingly balanced internal market. in this respect, it is imperative to create product safety standards and measures should be introduced to protect the rights and interests of consumers, especially against misleading advertising by offering the consumer an image of the product that is not compatible with reality. the most sensitive sectors are in particular the financial, food, transport and internet sectors. in addition, consumers should be given the means to enjoy the benefits of a liberalised market, allowing them to make informed choices. finally, to increase consumer confidence in the internal market, it is absolutely necessary to ensure better access to justice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of agreeing to the perspective of strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers by closely monitoring social habits and changes in social and consumer behaviour which may place certain groups and/or individuals in a vulnerable situation. this should be done in a balanced way and always in communication with all stakeholders.
in writing. − the promotion and protection of consumer rights are core values for the development of eu policies, in particular for the strengthening of the single market and the pursuit of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. within the general concept of consumers, however, there is a specific category, namely vulnerable consumers, to which special attention should be paid. the present report aims precisely to contribute to the creation of a strategy to strengthen the rights of the most vulnerable consumers, calling in this regard on the commission and the member states to adopt specific measures to ensure their adequate protection, especially in those sectors where the level of vulnerability has been shown to be highest (financial sector, food, transport, internet, access to justice, transport and energy) and specifically in the consumer agenda and the consumer programme for 2014-2020. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in november 2011, the european commission presented the proposal for a regulation on the consumer programme 2014-2020, aiming to put consumer rights at the heart of the single market. i am voting in favour of this report because it aims to stimulate consumer spending, which represents 56% of eu gdp, and thus make a decisive contribution to boosting economic growth and wealth creation. i believe that consumers should be protected from any commercial vulnerability, that the information available can be improved and that safety standards should be developed to ensure the effective functioning of the market. at a time of severe budgetary difficulties, i believe that it is necessary to protect the consumer from the financial markets, and that more economic regulation should be put in place and more information made available that leads to effective financial education.
in writing. - i approve this report on the issue of euro coins, agreeing with the proposal in this report, since the european central bank and the european commission may consider issuing 1 and 2 euro banknotes in the future, which would reduce the issue of current 1 and 2 euro coins and increase the currency's handling and acceptance, and lastly and most importantly, i reiterate, as in the report on the issue of commemorative coins, that europe must be more agile and efficient and, if this provides for administrative simplification, it must be implemented.
in writing. − this report addresses the issue of euro coins, with the main concern being the introduction of binding rules and an integrated framework for the issuance of euro coins in all member states, as well as greater transparency and security in this process. the future weighting of the issue of 1 and 2 euro banknotes is suggested in this theme, taking into account the advantages that these would bring, in particular in increasing the handling and acceptance of the currency. on the other hand, the reduction in commemorative coins in circulation will also be an asset, as their value will increase due to their rarity. the report also includes a proposal for the commission to carry out an impact assessment on the continued issuance of euro 1 and 2 cent coins. in view of the timeliness and advantages of these proposals, i am in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that reducing the number of commemorative coins in circulation will simplify the administrative procedures involved and lead to an increase in the value of commemorative coins.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it contains proposals aimed at optimising the euro. i think that the issue of 1 and 2 euro notes will be a positive thing: on the one hand it enhances the value of collector euro coins and on the other hand it promotes the handling and acceptance of the currency, which could have a positive influence on european tourism.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and i fully agree with his position on the need to optimise the euro and reduce administrative costs.
in writing. − this report mentions that the lack of binding provisions for the issue of euro coins may lead to divergent practices in the member states and does not allow for the creation of a sufficiently integrated framework for the single currency. it therefore argues that, in the interests of transparency and legal certainty, it is necessary to introduce binding rules for the issuance of euro coins. it proposes, inter alia, to differentiate between current coins, which are intended for circulation, and collector coins, which by definition are not issued with a view to circulation, although they may be put into circulation at face value or higher. it is proposed that collector coins should be legal tender in all member states and not just in those where they are issued. although some of the provisions in the report are relevant, others raise doubts, such as the proposal which could call into question the continued issue of 1 and 2 cent coins.
in writing. - after almost 13 years since the introduction of the euro, we can begin to reassess the various nuances of issuing the currency. we must make studies and make choices that can lead to a reduction in the cost of issuing money. in that case, the issuing of 1 and 2 euro notes and the disappearance of 1 and 2 cent coins may help.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which aims to optimise the euro, in particular by referring to the impact assessment on the continuation of the issuance of euro 1 and 2 cent coins.
in writing. - the present report, which i voted in favour of, deals with the issue of euro coins, with the main concern being the introduction of binding rules and an integrated framework for the issue of euro coins in all member states, as well as greater transparency and security in this process. the future weighting of the issue of 1 and 2 euro banknotes is suggested in this theme, taking into account the advantages that would result, in particular in terms of currency handling and acceptance. it is also proposed to reduce the number of commemorative coins in circulation, which will create added value if their value increases due to their rarity. the report also includes a proposal for the commission to carry out an impact assessment on the continued issuance of euro 1 and 2 cent coins.
in writing. − according to article 128 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european central bank has the exclusive right to authorise the issue of euro banknotes within the union. the european central bank and the national central banks may issue these notes. i agree with this report because i believe that there should be general binding provisions for the issue of euro coins which aim to create a sufficiently integrated framework for the single currency. i also believe that it is good to study all the ways in which the single currency can be enhanced, and that the interests of the member states and citizens must be safeguarded, especially with regard to the costs associated with possible inflation resulting from the elimination of the 1 and 2 cent coins.
in writing. − this report mentions that the lack of binding provisions for the issue of euro coins may lead to divergent practices in the member states and does not allow for the creation of a sufficiently integrated framework for the single currency. it therefore argues that, in the interests of transparency and legal certainty, it is necessary to introduce binding rules for the issuance of euro coins. it proposes, inter alia, a distinction between current coins, which are intended for circulation, and collector coins, which by definition are not issued with a view to circulation, although they may be put into circulation at their face value or higher. it is also proposed that the commission should assess the continuation of the issuance of 1 and 2 cent coins. this proposal raises some concerns and doubts, particularly as regards the possibility of an increase in product prices as a result of the so-called rounding-offs, which, if confirmed, would have a more negative impact on countries such as portugal. in addition, an impact assessment of the issue of 1 and 2 euro banknotes was initially proposed as a way of increasing the value of collector and commemorative coins but this amendment was not incorporated into the final document.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe that the common market can bring much more opportunities to all citizens, regardless of the regions or member states they come from. we have made a lot of progress, but we must make more progress and to do that, member states need to be aware of the importance of transposing internal market legislation into national law in a fast and effective way and do a good job of implementing it. national parliaments must strengthen their position in relation to the internal market by defining, communicating and assisting citizens with their rights. only then will the european union and its internal market reach its full potential.
in writing. − the publication of the internal market assessment panel has contributed to improving the transposition of the relevant legislation. despite considerable progress since its first publication in 1997, there is still a gap in the transposition of community legislation at member state level. some member states continue to fail to fully comply with their obligations as regards the correct and timely transposition of community legislation. the current average deficit of 1.2% is once again above the 1% target agreed by the heads of state and government in 2007. this report, which i have supported, advocates a coordinated and cooperative approach to improve the functioning of the single market by better transposing european legislation. it advocates the creation of support mechanisms for member states and urges member states to ensure adequate human resources in solvit centres and to strengthen the one-stop-shop systems with the aim of providing citizens with clear and practical information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the internal market cannot function properly without the correct transposition, application and enforcement of community directives and that it is essential that member states transpose internal market legislation into national law correctly and in a timely manner and that they make every effort to avoid non-compliance, as this is detrimental to the economic interests not only of that member state but of the union as a whole.
in writing. the internal market, established 20 years ago, is without doubt one of the greatest successes of european integration, but it still has shortcomings which need to be addressed in order to develop its full potential. especially in this time of economic crisis, it is a key driver for increased competitiveness, growth and economic prosperity. the evaluation panel allows the monitoring and identification of transposition and implementation gaps in the member states and contributes to their improvement. the internal market cannot function properly without the correct and timely transposition, application and enforcement of the directives that contribute to its functioning. the positive trends in the reduction of the transposition deficit that had been previously recorded disappeared in the latest assessment panel and it is regrettable that the target of 1% for 2007 has been exceeded. malta stands out as the most compliant member state and belgium as the worst. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. − the report on the internal market review panel was the subject of a broad consensus within the internal market committee, thus demonstrating support for strengthening the internal market. however, i voted against amendment no 1 tabled by mr busutill in the plenary, which calls on the commission to consider the possibility of creating an independent body within the commission, with the task of legally acting against infringements relating to the internal market and of instituting infringement procedures, after obtaining the approval of the college of commissioners, because i consider that this is a proposal which requires a serious and thorough debate on its content and powers which has not been possible in a parliamentary committee, and also because it proposes another institution in a context already densely populated with bodies. the implementation of this body is complex and raises doubts, as commissioner barnier pointed out in his speech yesterday. to deal with a subject of this complexity with a last-minute amendment and without debate does not seem to be the most appropriate position to defend and promote the internal market.
in writing. - the only way to talk about a true european union is to complete the single market. it seems obvious to me and that is why i voted in favour of this report! 2012 marks the 20th anniversary of the single market. the rapporteur therefore stresses that it is essential to join forces and try to overcome the obstacles which are still preventing the full realisation of our internal market, bearing in mind that citizens and businesses are the main beneficiaries of a fully operational and fully functioning single market. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to provide a more effective and more effective response to the crisis. the exploitation of synergies, better coordination, monitoring and evaluation of existing instruments, for example in the transposition of community directives or in the access of citizens (as a group or individually) to quick and efficient problem-solving mechanisms, ensure that citizens are properly informed of all the advantages of the single market or how to overcome obstacles.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report as it recognises the role of the internal market assessment panel (ims) monitoring. the single market was described in the krakow declaration in 2011 as the most powerful tool to put europe back on the path to sustainable growth and job creation. in this sense, the correct and timely transposition and application of legislation is essential for the success of the internal market. for this reason, i consider the ims to be an important tool to monitor and identify problems in the transposition and application of eu legislation, encouraging member states to improve the quality and timeliness of the transposition of internal market directives, particularly in a context of economic crisis.
in writing. − in 2012, the single market is 20 years old and over the past 20 years many steps have been taken towards its realisation, with the development of various tools and instruments. at this time of severe economic and financial crisis, the internal market is the best tool we have to restore growth to the eu economies and it must be used correctly, effectively and decisively. putting the internal market at the service of citizens and businesses is essential to boosting the european economy, creating jobs and improving competitiveness.
in writing. − this evaluation panel is part of the strategic approach to deepening the eu's internal market through greater liberalisation of economies in the european area. this is an instrument which assesses the transposition of eu directives within the internal market on the basis of purely quantitative criteria, without taking into account the disparities between the eu economies, nor the negative consequences felt in countries such as portugal, resulting from the deepening of the internal market, in the ways in which it has been conducted. consequences that have repercussions on the difficulties of many companies, particularly smes, on the destruction of jobs, on the loss of workers' rights. in the face of these problems, instead of rethinking current policies, they insist on accelerating the policies of liberalization, privatization and deregulation under way, proposing more sanctions and more speed in their application to recalcitrant member states. the rhetorical ruse that the deepening of the internal market will be the miracle solution to the economic and social crisis in the eu is being repeated. the deepening of the internal market, the application of monetary and fiscal policies based on austerity, the lack of investment in increasing national production and in the growth of real wages and pensions are causes of the crisis. not the solutions.
in writing. - a prosperous internal market remains the best instrument for leveraging the crisis and minimising its adverse effects. a number of tools have been developed to encourage the completion of the single market and to gauge the contributions of each member state to this common objective. the internal market assessment panel is a tool designed to encourage member states to improve the quality and timeliness of the transposition of internal market directives. only with an effective and functioning internal market can europe find a quick way out of the crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the regulatory framework for the internal market, which is intended to be not only more demanding but also more realistic, particularly as regards its transposition and application. the latest findings of the single market assessment panel have revealed the increasing failure of member states to comply, which is now being addressed through the mechanisms presented in this report.
in writing. − at a time when the eu is facing its worst crisis since its inception, it is important that every effort is made to realise the full potential of the internal market. in this context, the internal market assessment panel and the solvit network are seen as important tools to monitor and identify problems in the transposition and application of eu legislation, but also to identify gaps and bottlenecks in the single market in order to foster actions to improve the functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − the internal market is one of the strategic tools available to the european union to restore growth to the economies of the member states. over the past few years, a number of instruments have been developed to improve the internal market and to gauge the contributions of each member state to this common objective. i agree with this report as the internal market assessment panel is a tool to encourage member states to improve the quality and transposition of the directives in question. at a time when there is a negative trend towards improving the internal market, i consider it essential that member states make efforts to achieve and exceed ambitious targets, particularly with regard to the shortfall or delay in transposing regulations adopted by the european institutions.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing with the strong positions taken by the rapporteur responsible for the dialogue with the turkish authorities, particularly with regard to the condemnation of the fact that some 39% of turkish women have been the victims of violence, with some cases having fatal consequences. however, i would stress the progress made, particularly with regard to the establishment of a public prosecutor's office and the efforts of the authorities to ensure that women are in school and in the labour market, contributing to the gradual development of women's rights and the right to equality between men and women. i leave it at this point that turkey still has a long way to go in terms of fundamental rights and women's rights, and in this respect the european union should fully commit itself to an agenda for fundamental rights in this country.
in writing. - the situation of women in turkey has developed positively in recent years. however, there are still serious gaps that need to be filled. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which stresses that turkey, as a candidate country for membership of the european union, must also promote reforms to ensure gender equality. the main positive developments are reflected in the establishment of a legislative framework on women's rights. however, the implementation of this legislation has not yet reached satisfactory levels and there is also a need to strengthen cooperation between the government of turkey and civil society, which should be facilitated through the newly established ministry of family and social policies. violence against women is one of turkey's most pressing problems. therefore, a zero tolerance policy should be applied. the current law should be amended to implement more effective and immediate measures and to ensure its uniform application by all competent authorities. finally, i would stress the indispensable role of the media in changing mentalities in order to transform turkish society into a structure based on gender equality, it is also essential to eliminate the gender gap in secondary education, and to continue to increase the participation of women in the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that turkey, as a candidate country for eu membership, should be invited to support the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and to allow women to participate more actively in the labour market, and should be urged to step up its efforts to implement comprehensive reforms to meet the copenhagen criteria, in favour of its own modernisation, and to create an environment of mutual understanding and respect among the 27 eu member states, thus enabling an exchange of good practices on gender equality among all, for the benefit of women in turkey.
in writing. - as is already the case in other eu policies (e.g. neighbourhood policy or trade policy), it seems to me absolutely essential to condition our relations with third countries (even those that are candidates for accession) on strict observance of our fundamental values as a community of citizens and states. this report, which focuses on women's rights in turkey, is an important tool for framing and understanding the cultural, religious and historical reality of this candidate country, highlighting the latest developments, which allows an objective and clear analysis of the current situation, such as the creation of the ministry of family and social policies and the parliamentary committee on equal opportunities or the progress made in the education system and the labour market. however, there is still a long way to go as acknowledged in the report, in particular in the fight against gender-based violence and especially outside the large urban centres; in the implementation of the ambitious legislative framework already adopted and in the dialogue and monitoring of civil society on the implementation of these measures. i congratulate the rapporteur on voting in favour of this excellent own-initiative report.
in writing. - according to the report, the legislative framework in turkey on women's rights is largely established with legislation aimed at preventing violence against women, educating girls, eradicating illiteracy among women and increasing women's participation in the labour market. the rapporteur stresses, however, that the practical implementation of this legislation is not yet the most effective. it is important that turkey, as a candidate country, deepen its policies for the protection of women, by establishing genuine gender equality and ensuring the safety, protection and education of women in a society that provides equal opportunities regardless of gender.
in writing. - this report analyses and takes stock of what has been done in relation to equality between men and women in turkey. it also proposes a strategy to be followed in the field of inequalities between men and women in the country, violence between men and women, problems of women's access to education, the creation of shelters for women victims of domestic violence, the strengthening of prenatal and elderly care and institutions, data on the situation of women in turkey, among others. the commitments included proposals made by our group on the situation of kurdish women, women in rural areas, unemployed women and women living in poverty - which we value. how much we appreciate the paragraph calling on turkey to fulfil all its obligations under the ec-turkey association agreement and the additional protocol, which turkey has not yet implemented for the sixth consecutive year, because of the implications for the cyprus problem. for these reasons, we supported the report.
in writing. - turkey, as a potential candidate for membership, must respect the acquis communautaire and commit itself to respect human rights, including women's rights and gender equality. the pursuit of gender equality holds great potential for achieving the europe 2020 objectives by contributing to growth and full employment. progress has been made in turkey in improving and implementing the legislative framework to ensure equal participation of women in social, economic and political life. we are confident that turkey will continue on the right track with regard to gender equality; the european union is not a party to the treaty of rome, but it is a party to the treaty of rome.
in writing. the rapporteur has carried out an in-depth research on the situation of women in turkey, interviewing a number of people from the public sphere and ngos. the rapporteur concludes that the common claim expressed in all the contributions received is that of the need for a change of mindsets to transform the patriarchal structure of society into a structure based on gender equality. the rapporteur therefore makes a number of suggestions in this document to change attitudes. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - it is essential that the government of turkey respects and reinforces the principles of equality and women's rights by adopting and amending its legislative framework. i support the text adopted, which calls on turkey to fulfil all its obligations under the association agreement with the ec and the additional protocol, which turkey has not yet implemented for the sixth consecutive year. i welcome the increase in the number of female members of the turkish parliament.
in writing. - turkey, as a candidate country, must commit itself to respecting the acquis communautaire, in particular women's rights and gender equality. despite limited progress in the equal participation of women in social, economic and political life, there is still strong discrimination against women and the need to implement legislation already adopted to combat violence against women, including domestic violence, honour killings, and the fight against forced and early marriages. this report, in addition to analysing the situation of women in turkey, presents concrete measures to improve their situation. violence against women continues to reach alarming levels, and there are legal gaps and inconsistent enforcement among the authorities involved in protecting victims. illiteracy, low participation in politics and the labour market require the implementation of effective support measures, both at institutional and social level, in particular in changing mindsets and in the active participation of civil society in the implementation of these supports. i think it is extremely important that these issues are safeguarded in the new turkish constitution, and at the same time that awareness is raised of the importance of gender mainstreaming.
in writing. − this report analyses and takes stock of the progress made in promoting equality between men and women in turkey during the negotiation process for turkey's accession to the eu. it also suggests a strategy to be followed to combat the inequalities between men and women in the country, violence against women, and problems of women's access to education. it also called for the establishment of shelters for women victims of domestic violence to strengthen prenatal and elderly care and institutions, and stressed the importance of obtaining more data on the situation of women in turkey. we consider that the amendments we proposed and which referred to the need to pay special attention to the plight of kurdish women, women in rural areas, unemployed women and women living in poverty have been generally included in the final proposal of the report.
in writing. - i support this report because if we want to promote a citizens' initiative, i.e. for a group of citizens to be able to invoke the need for a piece of legislation at european level, it is imperative to ensure maximum transparency and democracy in this process. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that hearings should be held by the committees concerned at the same time as the participation in the petition. similarly, a single desk under the responsibility of the vice-president, which in turn ensures a stable environment, to deal with citizens' initiatives, would be a step forward. a legislative act initiated by citizens is an exceptional milestone in the progress made by the european union in developing democracy and we must therefore ensure that it is implemented in the best possible way.
in writing. − on 15 december 2010, the european parliament adopted the report on the proposal for a regulation on the citizens' initiative at first reading. the citizens' initiative will be an important tool available to european citizens, and aims to give citizens the same powers of political initiative as the council of ministers and the european parliament. in particular, it is intended to provide citizens with a means of being heard by allowing them to submit certain matters of interest to the european institutions. this initiative will complement the existing direct links between citizens and institutions. the ep can help to achieve these objectives by using all the means at its disposal to support citizens' initiatives, including public hearings. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it crucial that european citizens have the means to be heard, enabling them to put their concerns to the european institutions. these may include difficulties they encounter in their daily lives and which they feel do not receive adequate attention or support. the citizens' initiative will complement the direct links between citizens and the institutions by ensuring that the eu institutions address the concrete issues of concern to citizens and promote a broader, cross-border debate within the eu.
in writing. − the european citizens' initiative should bring citizens closer to the european institutions. this new instrument of participatory democracy, provided for in the lisbon treaty, should give european citizens the opportunity to be heard and to contribute to the definition of the issues to be included in the eu's political agenda. the european parliament should contribute to the achievement of these objectives, in particular by organising public hearings, and parliament's rules of procedure will therefore have to be adapted. i support the rapporteur's proposals for the creation of a single desk to facilitate exchanges and dialogue with citizens, and for the organisation of hearings within the committees that are appointed to deal with this matter. these public hearings should take place when the citizens' initiative has collected more than one million signatures from citizens of at least seven member states, has been published in the register by the commission and sent to the ep, whose president should forward it to the committee responsible. the citizens' initiative will undoubtedly be a powerful tool to strengthen the citizens' europe by encouraging greater participation and the dynamic exercise of european citizenship.
in writing. - one of the most important changes to the treaty of lisbon on civic participation in the legislative process of our union of peoples and states is now in the european parliament's rules of procedure. i am, of course, referring to the european citizens' initiative. i was very pleased to vote in favour of this report, supporting the provisions contained in it, particularly as regards the rules for holding public hearings for the presentation of citizens' initiatives, and the creation of a single desk (referred to in the document as the 'single point of contact') in the european parliament to support these initiatives, which, by acting as a facilitator of the process and by guiding european citizens towards the european institutions (elected/voters), will certainly be an indispensable element for the proper conduct of these european initiative procedures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the rules of procedure of the european parliament on the implementation of the european citizens' initiative, as it introduces the necessary provisions for the implementation of this new instrument of participatory democracy at european level, with a view, in particular, to the organisation and holding of public hearings for the presentation of citizens' initiatives in the european parliament and the creation of a single point of contact for the support of citizens' initiatives.
in writing. - the observation that there is a gap between elected and electors, between citizens and decision-makers, in the european union, is repeated throughout europe. academics and political institutions are unanimous in their diagnosis even though there are disagreements about the best solutions to the problem. the european citizens' initiative is another attempt to bridge the gap and allow citizens to become more involved in european affairs, having been adopted by the treaty of lisbon. it is now up to us to put it into practice and to that end to amend the rules of procedure of the european parliament accordingly. without placing unreasonable hopes on this initiative in view of its actual scope and the limitations that result from it, i hope that a good use of it will enable it to achieve its intended purpose and promote participation and citizenship at european level. and while it does not replace representative democracy, it can nevertheless bring new voices and new initiatives to the political debate.
in writing. - this report deals only with the amendment of the rules of procedure of the european parliament to take account of the role assigned to parliament in the so-called citizens' initiative. while agreeing to hearings to discuss the issues covered by this figure, which the treaty of lisbon has created, it is worth recalling the contradictions and limits of the initiative itself. it is worth recalling, in particular, the demagogic way in which it was promoted: the attempt to whitewash the impoverishment of democracy by trying to make people forget that european officials prevented the people from expressing their opinion on the lisbon treaty. the procedure is now repeated in relation to the so-called budgetary treaty. it should be recalled that one million signatures from a significant number of member states are needed to simply invite the european commission to submit an appropriate proposal on matters on which these citizens consider a legal act of the union to be necessary to implement the treaties. in other words, after all the work of collecting signatures and meeting the requirements laid down in the proposal for a regulation, there is no guarantee that citizens will have their requests taken into account. the amendments to the rules of procedure are positive and they merely provide a framework for parliament's participation in this process.
in writing. − on 15 december 2010, a regulation was adopted allowing one million european citizens to ask the european commission to come forward with legislation on a given matter. the rules implementing the citizens' initiative, which was approved by the european parliament today, stipulate that signatories must come from at least seven member states. in the case of portugal, at least 16,500 signatures will be needed to support an initiative. the treaty of lisbon created a 'right of initiative for citizens' under which one million citizens can ask the commission to submit certain legislative proposals. today we are going to make the necessary amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament so that the 'right of initiative of citizens' becomes a reality.
in writing. − i have approved this report which calls for amendments to the rules of procedure to enable the european parliament to make an active contribution towards the achievement of the objectives of the citizens' initiative, in particular by making use of all the means at its disposal, including the organisation of public hearings.
in writing. − pursuant to article 11 of regulation (eu) no 211/2011 of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 2011, it is provided that, following the registration of a citizens' initiative by the commission, the organisers will have the opportunity to present their initiative at a public hearing organised in the european parliament. the main purpose of this report is precisely to introduce the necessary amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament in order to regulate the organisation and conduct of these hearings. i voted in favour of the amendments because i agree with them.
in writing. − this new instrument will enable citizens, according to certain criteria, to put issues on the european agenda through the power of political initiative. at the same time, it will allow european citizens to be heard and european issues to be discussed at a cross-border level. in accordance with regulation (eu) no 211/2011, the organisers should be given the opportunity to present their initiative in a public hearing, with the broad technical support of the european parliament and the european commission. i would like to emphasize the creation of a single point of contact for dialogue and exchange between citizens, which will facilitate the applicability of the initiatives, the possibility of speakers taking part in the public hearings, and the possibility of reimbursement of transport costs, according to certain rules. despite the importance of this initiative, it should be stressed that not all initiatives will end up in a legislative proposal from the commission, but the possibility of debate on the european project has a crucial development with this instrument.
in writing. the report also calls for the european parliament to be given the right to vote in the european parliament elections. in our view, this initiative has several limitations. it was promoted in a demagogic way to whitewash the attacks on democracy that the european union has suffered. if the intention is to listen to the citizens, why have the people been prevented from expressing their views on the lisbon treaty and are they now being prevented from expressing their views on the budgetary treaty? what this initiative means is that one million signatures collected in a significant number of member states mean that the european commission can be asked to come forward with an appropriate proposal on matters on which these citizens consider a legal act of the union to be necessary to implement the treaties. in other words, there is no guarantee that citizens' requests will be taken into account. the amendments to the rules of procedure are only intended to regulate parliament's participation in this procedure.
mr president, in february 2009 this parliament adopted a report supporting the european commission's proposal to relaunch the european economy. there were clean energy projects, transport, new technologies, innovation, and even then the role of the european investment bank and the structural funds were equalised. after more than three years, we have been able to produce the six-pack, the euro plus pact, the budget pact, the two-pack, all of them full of reinforced discipline and sanctions, but in the meantime, while unemployment, especially youth unemployment, reaches frightening levels, the european economy enters recession and more than seven of its member countries are experiencing negative growth. and yet, while greece is no more than a first stone that threatens to bring down the castle, the revival agenda seems to have been forgotten. at this point, that agenda is clear. the important thing at this point is not to give it an urgency character, but an emergency character, in a situation that threatens to explode. we must act urgently on a set of pillars. firstly, we must have a european marshall plan, with investment that promotes growth, employment and convergence. project bonds are one possible source. secondly, the interest rates at which countries finance themselves must be stabilized. let us at least prepare ourselves to coordinate sovereign debt issues and to manage the debt that has accumulated in common. thirdly, the european stability mechanism and the european central bank must be prepared to act as real fire-fighters in defence of european sovereign debt. fourthly, the credit that has been massively transferred from the european central bank to commercial banks must reach businesses. it's a trillion euros that's being held back in the banking system while thousands of viable businesses die every day from lack of funding. fifth point: investment is meaningless without demand. the weakest economies are being crushed by austerity plans. it is the strongest economies that have to unleash domestic demand. it is because almost 80% of trade today takes place within europe, and it is the commission, mr rehn, which has to make recommendations not only to the weakest economies but also to the most dynamic ones. and finally - i will finish right away, mr president - there must be a limit to the revenues imposed by the troika. we must say enough about the punitive, non-dialogue and non-accountability style with which high officials determine the fate of millions of european citizens and the democratic institutions of member countries.
mr president, commissioner, the reality confirms the disastrous consequences of such austerity. unemployment is at historic levels, as it is in portugal, and it is spreading, regardless of the rhetoric of growth and employment served to the tables of the european union's gentlemen at their informal dinners. the same dinners at which they applaud the virtuous policies of widespread impoverishment, exploitation and misery that they are imposing on this europe outside. and it's not just the millions of unemployed, it's the millions and millions who are increasingly impoverished at work. this is the crude face of a project which promised to harmonize progress but which is coldly pursuing the levelling down of living and working conditions in europe. this cannot be solved by words or by trickery, such as so-called smart austerity or additional protocols to the new budgetary treaty, aimed at legitimizing what cannot be legitimized. it is solved by a break and a profound modification of policies, in order to create wealth and not wealth, in order to promote social progress and welfare and not civilizational regression. this is the cry that is echoing in the social struggles outside europe.
mr president, mr minister, commissioners, what i wanted to say is very clear: of course the portuguese members of the epp fully support all measures that can contribute to growth, there is no possibility of getting out of this crisis without promoting growth, especially in those states that are most affected by the financial crisis, but sometimes when i listen to some colleagues here, i get the feeling that they think that there can be continued growth with excessive deficits and bad public accounts. we must continue to insist on reducing expenditure and structural reforms, we can do everything in the interests of growth, but we cannot abandon the path of restraint and reduction of public expenditure and structural reforms. more growth cannot be more relaxed, more rest, more growth and more growth policies must go hand in hand, with great rigor in public accounts and with great rigor in structural reforms. if we start talking only about growth and thinking that there are magic solutions for growth, we will end up again in an unsustainable public debt and we will continue without structural reforms. that said, i would like to draw attention to the fact that at tomorrow's summit, it will not only be about this long-term or medium-term growth issue, it will be about the urgent issue of greece and i think it is fundamental that the european states should in some way stand by greece. we are responsible for finding a solution to the greek problem and i would like to repudiate here the statement of the british member who spoke of the portugueseization of europe, perhaps the portugueseization of europe, at least in terms of values, was not a negative thing, so i reject this idea of trying, finally, to humiliate or try to reduce any people. we are all europe and we all have a place in it.
mr president, commissioner, you have come here to tell us that every euro more spent on debt is one euro less for job creation, so explain to us why you continue this obsession. you have also come here to tell us that one of the priorities of the summit is to keep greece in the euro zone and i ask you, commissioner, do we believe you or do we believe dr barroso or mr trichet who have been saying the exact opposite for i do not know how many days? you mentioned the maintenance of the euro zone, and i ask in what euro? in the euro we are living in today, in this zone we are living in today, or in the euro that was announced yesterday by deutsche bank in a study in which it referred to a g euro, a second-rate euro, if the left wins the elections in june in greece. this is a trap, commissioner, a trap of a europe held hostage by governments and a trap of a europe held hostage by financial interests. let us not let people live in fear because it is not a way of life, europe can be something else, you know it, there is no lack of money, there is a lack of shame.
mr president, i welcome the transposition into european union law of the icat recommendations which most recently amended the multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna, thereby reinforcing the measures to recover this stock. recently, there has been some recovery in bluefin tuna and further action is needed, not only because the level of recovery is still not satisfactory, but also because the financial pressure on this fishery is very strong, encouraging over-fishing and even illegal practices. good management of bluefin tuna, which can only be ensured by appropriate multiannual recovery plans, is imperative from an environmental as well as an economic and social perspective, ensuring that this valuable resource, which is a driving force behind an important fishing sector, is maintained in the future. it is therefore important to recognize that the icat proposals, which are now being transposed into european legislation by legal imperatives, can be improved and have been improved by the european union itself, whose legislation in this area is more ambitious than that of the icat. i would stress, however, that it is important to take account not only of the high interest in the conservation and protection of bluefin tuna but also of the need to ensure a level playing field for all operators in this sector and not to adopt unilateral measures of increased restrictions in a simplistic way. it is important that the european unit exercises real influence within icat in promoting and implementing sustainable and global conservation levels for all operators. in this context, the agreement between parliament, the council and the commission is an important step forward in the right direction and an impetus for further agreements in the debate on the reform of the common fisheries policy.
mr president, we support the possibility of deepening economic relations between the countries of the european union and china, we support the possibility of deepening cooperation relations, which are mutually beneficial and contribute to mutual development, but we cannot ignore the serious consequences of liberalization and deregulation of world trade. with china, as with any other country, trade relations should be guided by complementarity and mutual benefit, not by the competition that inspires free and unregulated trade. china, the second largest economy in the world, with growth rates that europe has not experienced for a long time, is now seen by the major european economic groups, firstly, as an indispensable source of scarce and rare resources on a world scale and, secondly, as an opportunity to circumvent the difficulties of making capital profitable at home by continuing the process of accumulation elsewhere, difficulties resulting from the compression of wages, the purchasing power of the general european population. this is a view and a path that we unequivocally reject.
author. − mr president, why (you may ask) this oral question and resolution form when this parliament has the task of voting to give or withhold its consent? because a trade agreement is also a political instrument and we wanted to have an opportunity to discuss politics and our foreign relations with these countries which soon will be closer to us. we think this is a good agreement for both the european union and our andean partners and we strongly support it. we trust this agreement will help our partner countries on their path to economic growth and development, contributing to fighting poverty, promoting social cohesion and sustainable development. we strongly believe this agreement will help to improve the general perception, here in europe, of colombia in particular, which has been criticised by persons who still look at it as if it was the same country it used to be in the 1990s, in the last millennium. but the one and only truth is that colombia has changed. it has dramatically changed for the better. we europeans must keep on supporting these changes by approaching our friends, not by repelling them. by supporting nations, governments, and politicians, we are sharing the same values – as we do. by being nearer to our partner countries we are helping their citizens. this is the only known way to make a better and fairer world. we also suggest that our partner countries should create a transparent and binding road map, possibly with the support of the commission, regarding human labour rights and sustainable development. we also want to see both in peru and colombia the establishment of permanent institutionalised mechanisms that guarantee the role of civil society. in an open and free society civic organisations have the right to be heard, but then it is up to the democratically elected governments to make their choices and assume their responsibilities. the role of civic forums is not to replace governments, particularly when they are democratically elected governments, as is the case in both countries. two last remarks: firstly, to express our highest admiration to both colombia and peru for a notable improvement of the general living standards of their citizens. a special word for president juan manuel santos, who is changing very rapidly a country that lived for decades with an armed conflict, violence and impunity, corruption and drug trafficking. president santos will be remembered for what he is presently doing in colombia, be it in the fields of human rights, labour activists, sustainable development or indigenous peoples’ rights. nevertheless, despite these herculean efforts, change takes time. to conclude, a final word to express my deep disappointment at the fact that apparently this parliament did not accept an invitation from the congresses of both colombia and peru to participate in two hearings with an mep delegation from all political groups. i hope that it can be more than just the two rapporteurs who will go there. it would be particularly important for colleagues to see the realities through their own eyes. some would certainly be surprised at how the reality is much better than the perception they have.
i have no doubt that the trade agreement agreement must be judged above all on its merits in terms of the prosperity and well-being of the citizens, workers and businesses of the union. but it is also true that foreign trade policy cannot be separate from the union's international human rights policy. i also believe that the union cannot conclude trade agreements only with countries that maintain standards of human rights defence and protection as high as those of the union, but i believe that when we conclude international trade agreements with countries with problematic human rights situations we must ensure that at least these agreements contribute to improving the existing situation and have a positive impact on the human rights balance of those countries. and that is why this oral question is important, to know whether this international trade agreement with colombia and peru, apart from its commercial merits, which in my view are not in question, has also contributed positively to the improvement of the human rights situation in these two countries.
mr president, mr president-in-office, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, globalisation has brought about a disproportionate growth in the financial sector, whose transactions are now, as is well known, 70 times greater than global wealth. the opacity, the over-frequency of transactions, the high remuneration, the very high risk have become not only a characteristic of the world we live in today, but also a fundamental reason for the crisis we are going through. however, this crisis has come to demand accountability and effort, much more from ordinary citizens than from the sector that caused it. so today, this moment is important. it is important, and i would personally like to see a situation where the tax is generalized in all the countries of the european union and then extended to the rest of the world through the active participation of the commission and the european union in general in the context of the g20. i would like to see it extended to all products without exception. i would like it to serve as a basis for the necessary increase in the european union's own resources. in the short term, we must accept compromises, but we must not lose sight of where we are going. and this can only be achieved with a clear identification of these objectives by this parliament, by the commission and with a great spirit of commitment also on the part of the council. that is what the citizens of europe expect from us today, and i can only thank here today not only anni podimata, who has been tireless in this process, but also all those who have succeeded in overcoming our differences and reaching a common position.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations, and that is why i am not going to vote for the report. this house and the european institutions must answer to the people and not to the financial markets. for decades the financial market lobbies have managed to rule the world without opposition and without any problem. it is obvious to us that during 2008 and 2012 the crisis of the speculative financial market was at the root of most of the problems we experienced. and yet these speculative financial markets have managed not only to do nothing, but to transfer directly from the pockets of citizens to these speculative markets. we have been fighting for this for many years, mr president, but it was only when people all over europe started to say enough that there was finally some initiative on the part of the institutions governing the european union. and so that is the answer we have to give to the citizens. it's a first signal we have to give them. the citizens of europe who have paid for everything do not deserve to be disrespected. and so this proposal is not complete, it's not perfect, it's not going to solve the whole problem of financial speculation, but it's an important signal. we've been going... we don't, european leaders have been apologizing to the financial markets. you should apologize to the people you've affected. and to quote, in conclusion, mr president, a famous politician today, it is these markets that we are talking about, these markets that govern us without ever having been elected. i sincerely hope that governments will give a signal of confidence to the people and i sincerely hope that with this approval and a positive vote by our colleagues we will begin to talk about justice and solidarity in europe. colleagues, gather your courage, we'll pass this bill.
mr president, no one doubts that it is a good thing for the european union to have more own resources. no one doubts that the effort in this time of crisis must be made by all. however, the proposal and the debate we have seen today raise a number of questions. firstly, what is the great use, at a time of crisis and of a necessary commitment to growth, of discussing a proposal which will raise so many problems in the council, in which unanimity is required? secondly, if this is not a global solution, what effect will it have on the internal market, which is itself part of a global market? will it not lead to mere distortions? thirdly, what is the purpose of this proposal? regulation is not the way to go. is it to find revenue for the community budget? that would be one way to go. how will the effects on taxpayers be limited? how come you're not going to raise the price on those who don't have to pay a tax like this? all these are doubts which at the moment exist about good intentions and good ideas and which should naturally make us reflect.
mr president, the financial transaction tax should function as a means of controlling and discouraging high-risk speculative activities in the financial sector. it aims to reduce speculation and to increase healthy competition, which is the basis of the single market, and also to generate revenue. the podimata report attempted to bring the european commission's initial proposal closer to the well-known uk stamp tax. we have thus made this proposal more attractive to reluctant member states. it is hoped that the council will also understand the message. the commission proposal applied the tax to transactions by financial institutions located in the european union, but now it is proposed that transactions in european assets, even if carried out by non-european entities, should also be taxed. this will broaden the revenue base and reduce leakage. it is expected that the revenue from the tax will be considered as a source of own resources of the union or of the states, reducing the taxes of the member states, a question which is still to be decided. i would like to conclude, mr president, by congratulating the rapporteur on her excellent work, and i hope that this symbolic text... (the president cut the speaker off)
mr president, we have been advocating a tax on financial transactions on the stock exchange since at least the late 1990s. we think it is an important instrument to combat financial speculation, but it is not enough, because other more courageous measures would be essential, namely the end of tax havens and the most speculative financial products. but this is an important step. and yet we are concerned that the proposal under discussion treats favourably derivatives and other structured products, those where speculation is precisely the most intense, with the minimum rate of the proposal: 0.01%. on the other hand, it seems to us essential that the revenue from this levy should be used to combat poverty and not to replace national contributions to the community budget, which would maintain the same insufficient amounts in the budget and not contribute to the stated objective of increasing funds for social convergence and cohesion.
in writing. in this discussion on a common system of financial transaction tax, there are at least two aspects to be considered: the tax itself its technical characteristics and political implications and the destination of the revenue to be raised from it (which, according to the european commission's forecasts, could amount to eur 57 billion). as for the tax itself, we have long defended it. whether as an instrument of (some) fiscal justice, or as an instrument to combat financial speculation necessary but insufficient in itself (other measures, such as the end of tax havens and the end of the most speculative financial products, are required). despite the general agreement, the proposal raises some reservations and disagreements, such as the relatively more favourable treatment of derivatives and other structured products (precisely where the evidence of speculation is strongest). as regards the management of tax revenues, although the subject is beyond the scope of this directive, it is inseparable from the above discussion. we are opposed to the commission's proposal to channel revenue into the community budget by making a corresponding cut in direct contributions from the member states. this will benefit the large countries in particular and will further undermine the redistributive function of the budget.
in writing. - i approve of this report, but i would point out that the european parliament has attached to this regulation a declaration stressing the possibility of implementing acts which should not be taken into account or used as precedents to regularize situations similar to this one, which obliges the european union to transpose into community law the measures adopted by the international commission for the protection and conservation of atlantic tunas. only then can we say that there is an effective transposition into future international conservation measures. i would like to conclude by stressing that the democratic process must be strengthened in all the measures relating to this matter and that the importance of the content of this regulation, which effectively protects bluefin tuna, which is essential for many coastal regions and islands in the european union, must not be overlooked.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of regulation (ec) no 302/2009 establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean, taking into account the need to transpose into eu law the amendments of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) to its multiannual recovery plan for the eastern bluefin tuna stock.
in writing. − on 3 may 2010, the writer arturo pérez-reverte wrote the following in his weekly column patente de corso: durante años me crucé en el mar (...) con barcos (...) traídos para la faena. and so, by matching the boils with european legislation, by locating the tuna with airplanes, by surrounding it with ultra-modern technology, by searching ever further afield, in sicily and the libyan coast, and by taking it in cages to the places of concentration and slaughter, cuatro linces have become made of gold, while the bluefin tuna that for centuries has been crossing the strait of gibraltar, a silver and red treasure that has sprinkled its ancestral lake in our cupboards with greek, latin and arabic words, is extinguished without remedy. the transcription i have made is more accurate than any proper word i would add and well illustrates the present state of affairs. i believe that the european union can only try to make up for lost time and adopt measures which will enable it to act effectively to save bluefin tuna. i hope you get it.
in writing. − sustainable management of fisheries resources is one of the european union's (eu) concerns, especially when it comes to endangered species. this report, by raül romeva i rueda, is based on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 302/2009 establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. since tuna is a highly sought-after species, legislation is needed to regulate its capture and not endanger the stocks of this species. in addition, illegal fishing is a serious threat to their recovery. although the international committee for the management of atlantic tuna (icat) has a recovery plan in place since july 2011, the measures have not yet been transposed into european law, undermining the eu's credibility. i understand, however, that the restrictions must apply to everyone and not just to european fishermen. i voted in favour of this report because it combines the economic consequences of the reduction in catches with the fight against illegal fishing and the need to ensure the future maintenance of the species.
in writing. − the main objective of this report is to transpose into eu law the amendments made by iccat, the multilateral organisation for the management of the tuna fisheries, to its multiannual recovery plan for the bluefin tuna stock. the rapporteur stresses the difficulty of establishing a bluefin tuna fisheries management plan. the rapporteur also believes that the difficulty in establishing a bluefin tuna management plan may be related to the lack of means (economic, administrative and technological) on the part of iccat to control the fisheries. noting that the iccat recovery plan is less ambitious than the eu internal legislation. concerns are raised about the lack of up-to-date statistical data on the bluefin tuna stock and its validity. the rapporteur approves the commission proposal, with the amendments it has made. we reaffirm the principle that decisions on the management of living marine resources should be based on scientific knowledge and that this should be supported by as sound data as possible. this report had that concern. that's why we're here. we would, however, like to stress the rapporteur's own reservations on the above points, which should be addressed in the future.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution which provides for the reduction of fishing quotas and the strengthening of controls on the catches of bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. there is evidence that illegal fishing accounts for more than half of the total catch in the european union, and new rules are urgently needed to oblige member states to ensure that their national observers monitor all active trawlers. previously, only 20% of ships were inspected. reducing fishing quotas and fleet size, extending protection periods for patrol vessels and increasing surveillance will help to deal with a species threatened by overfishing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendment to the regulation establishing a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean, considering it essential to update it in the light of the changes which have occurred in the meantime, in particular those relating to the size of the stocks of the species. recommendation 10-04 of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, which is binding on the union, provides, inter alia, for a further reduction in the total allowable catch. it is therefore very important to update a regulation that was dated 2009.
in writing. − at its 2010 annual meeting, the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) adopted a recommendation to amend the multiannual recovery plan for the eastern bluefin tuna stock. the plan aims to strengthen measures to reduce fishing capacity and measures to control catches. the proposal for a regulation aims to transpose this recommendation of iccat, to which the european union is a contracting party, into european law. the proposed plan is less ambitious than eu legislation and iccat must also anticipate the important issues within its remit. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report respects the principle (which we have always advocated) that decisions on the management of living marine resources should be based on scientific knowledge, and that this should be supported by as sound data as possible. we therefore supported this report, not only in the transposition into eu law of the amendments made by iccat to its multiannual recovery plan for the bluefin tuna stock, but also in the concerns raised by the rapporteur, both in terms of the lack of financial and logistical support from iccat and the need to improve statistical knowledge on the subject of this report.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering the new requirements imposed on the need for double hulls for ships to be important, justified for environmental reasons, but at the same time i share the rapporteur's position, in that the scope of the delegation of powers in the commission is excessively wide, and the duration of the commission's powers to adopt delegated acts should be limited, with a report which will allow parliament and the council to assess future proposals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the double-hulled construction requirements to be positive. the objective of this regulation is to reduce the risks of accidental pollution by hydrocarbons in european waters by introducing double-hulling. this double hull design protects cargo tanks against breakdown and can prevent future tragedies such as the ecological catastrophes caused by the erika and prestige shipwrecks in 1999.
in writing. - we all remember the ecological disasters caused by the breakdown of single-hull tankers, such as the famous prestige. regardless of the question of competence which has divided parliament and the commission, the european union must do everything possible to prevent similar situations from happening again and consequently promote the timely adoption of more stringent requirements by the owners and builders of these vessels. environmental safety requires it.
in writing. the report, drawn up by dominique riquet, concerns the proposal for a recast of the european parliament and council regulation on the accelerated introduction of double-hull or equivalent construction requirements for single-hull oil tankers. every day, millions of barrels of oil are transported across the oceans. in fact, the sea route remains the main 'highway' for large oil tankers. the safety of hydrocarbons transported by sea is a matter of concern to citizens in general and environmentalists in particular. we all remember the ecological catastrophes caused by the black tides following the sinking of oil tankers such as the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002. since most tankers use the single hull system, which in the event of a spill immediately causes direct spillage into the water with serious consequences for marine flora and fauna, it is understandable that the most effective solution is to equip these vessels with a double hull. i therefore voted in favour, taking into account the opinion of the committee on legal affairs, which considers that the proposal is merely a codification of the existing texts without any substantive changes.
in writing. − the introduction of double-hull construction requirements or equivalent design standards for single-hull oil tankers is a matter of great importance, particularly in view of the well-known cases of the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, which caused extremely serious ecological disasters. the objective of this regulation is therefore to reduce the risks of accidental pollution by hydrocarbons in water. in the event of damage to the chaparral as a result of collision or stranding, the contents of the cargo tanks are expected to be less likely to spill. this is a matter of obvious relevance and the steps are now relevant and necessary. that is why we supported the report. it also seeks to limit the duration of the commission's powers to adopt delegated acts to five years and to set out the conditions for the extension of those powers. a report is also requested so that parliament and the council have regular information against which to evaluate future proposals. as regards objections to delegated acts, parliament or the council will now have two months for the extension of the deadline, which will give a much more realistic total of four months to implement an objection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report which provides for double-hull or equivalent construction requirements for single-hull oil tankers. the serious accidents of oil tankers and the resulting pollution of the coasts and the resulting damage to marine fauna, flora and other marine resources justify this position and therefore more stringent and effective measures should be taken at international and union level to significantly improve maritime safety.
in writing. - the accelerated introduction of double hull construction requirements or equivalent design standards for single hull oil tankers is a matter of great importance. black tides caused by oil tanker sinkings, such as those of the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002, are extremely serious ecological disasters and tragedies for marine fauna and flora. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report which aims at the accelerated introduction of these requirements.
in writing. − the objective of this regulation is to reduce the risks of accidental pollution by hydrocarbons in european waters by accelerating the introduction of double-hulled vessels. the accelerated introduction of double-hull construction requirements or equivalent design standards for single-hull oil tankers is a matter of great importance as it helps to prevent ecological disasters such as those experienced by the erika in 1999 and the prestige in 2002. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the catastrophic oil spills caused by the sinking of the erika and prestige oil tankers, with the destruction of marine and coastal biodiversity, are imperative enough for accelerated action to be taken on the requirements for the construction of oil tankers. the aim of the european commission's recast of this regulation is to avoid as much as possible the possibility of crude oil spills by means of the accelerated introduction of double hulls on single hull oil tankers. however, i am in favour of the rapporteur's view on the delegation of powers in the commission. the adoption of delegated acts should be subject to a time limit and parliament and the council should be kept regularly informed of any future proposals. i also support the extension of the deadline for objections to delegated acts to parliament and the council for a further two months.
in writing. − the objective of this regulation is to reduce the risks of accidental pollution by hydrocarbons in waters by introducing double-hull construction requirements or equivalent design standards for single-hull oil tankers. to avoid ecological accidents such as those which have already occurred, these measures are absolutely necessary, and we have therefore supported the report.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing that both parties, the european union and mozambique, should conclude a new protocol, with the consent of the european parliament. this new protocol is a model for relations with third countries, since it imposes conditionality clauses that apply to the annual financial allocation, with particular emphasis on respect for sectoral support for the human rights support programme, which may imply its suspension.
in writing. − on 2 january 2012, a new protocol was concluded between the european union and the republic of mozambique. this protocol allows access to a total of 75 european union vessels. spain, france, portugal and the united kingdom are the member states concerned by these fishing opportunities. the agreement with mozambique is strategic in that it guarantees the continuity of the european fleet's fishing zone in the indian ocean and can be an excellent alternative, given the increase in piracy in other exclusive economic zones further north. the new protocol promotes responsible and sustainable fishing and allows the promotion of a cooperative relationship based on respect for the laws and regulations in force in the eu and mozambique in the field of fisheries. in accordance with the mandate received from the council, clauses on the conditionality of annual payments were added to the protocol, in particular as regards respect for the programming of sectoral support and human rights, and their application may be suspended in the event of non-compliance with the conditions laid down in the protocol. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that sustainable fishing practices, greater transparency in identification procedures and improved monitoring and control infrastructures for fishing activities in the exclusive economic zone of the republic of mozambique should be promoted. i believe that the joint committee should take concrete steps to increase the number of calls by eu vessels in mozambican ports and thus promote local employment. the joint committee should also ensure a fair distribution of the allocation of aid to mozambique's fisheries and maritime policy, to the development of coastal populations living off fishing and to the setting up of small businesses at local level.
in writing. - the balanced management of fisheries resources and consumer needs require the union to diversify its fisheries resources and, consequently, to conclude agreements with a variety of partners. mozambique has been among these partners since 1987. unlike other international actors who are only concerned with the prey of resources, the european union seeks to involve local fishing communities and contribute to their development. this social and community dimension must not be left out of european priorities, because only in this way can we ensure not only the renewal of fisheries resources through the adoption of good practices but also the support of the populations for european fisheries. mozambique enjoys a privileged position in the indian ocean and has very strong historical and cultural links with europe, particularly portugal, which can be important in a context where it is intended to implement a partnership that is operational, efficient and that holds all parties involved to account.
in writing. − the european union (eu) and the republic of mozambique have partnership agreements in various areas, including fisheries. in view of the mozambican territorial waters and their resources, this is a protocol of mutual interest. the eu, because its citizens can enjoy the species in those waters; mozambique, because it will benefit from the eu financial resources it badly needs to carry out the reform and development programme that the country badly needs. the recommendation under examination concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of a new protocol laying down the fishing conditions and financial compensation provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of mozambique. the new protocol, which will apply from 1 january 2012 to 31 december 2014, will allow european shipowners (43 fishing vessels and 32 longliners) to continue to benefit from fishing licences for mozambican waters, while promoting a policy of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. in addition, the republic of mozambique will receive a financial contribution of € 2 940 000.
in writing. - this report approves the conclusion of the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and mozambique. the agreement provides for a contribution of eur 980 000 per year, of which eur 520 000 relates to access for european vessels to the mozambique fishing zone and eur 460 000 to support mozambique's sectoral policy. the reference tonnage of 8 000 tonnes was also set, which was lower than the previous agreement. this allows access for a total of 75 eu vessels, of which 43 are purse seiners and 32 surface longliners. the member states concerned by these fishing opportunities are spain, france, portugal and the united kingdom. the rapporteur highlights the amendments to the protocol to reflect the latest developments in the mozambican national fisheries legislation. as regards the obligation to take on board mozambican seamen, it is further established that this includes, inter alia, freedom of association and effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining, as well as the elimination of discrimination in employment and occupation, and that the salary may not be lower than that of crews of national ships, nor than the ilo standards. we supported the conclusion of the agreement, but stressed the need to increase sectoral support and its results.
in writing. - i have tabled my vote in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the new protocol setting out the fishing opportunities and financial contribution provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community and the republic of mozambique. the agreement states that despite the reduction in the fishing quota, the financial compensation paid to mozambique has increased from eur 250 000 to eur 460 000 per year to support the fisheries sector. it provides for the licensing of fishing opportunities for 75 european union (eu) vessels from portugal, spain, france, italy and the united kingdom. the agreement also emphasises sustainable fishing and control and obliges eu vessel owners to employ local seafarers.
in writing. − this report supports the continuation of the eu-mozambique agreement to enable the eu to exploit in a sustainable way the surplus fishery resources of mozambique, thus giving expression to one of the most important aspects of the common fisheries policy, namely its external dimension. at the same time, the report echoes important general concerns that i too have expressed about sustainable fisheries agreements, in terms of the frequent decline in fishing opportunities and the increase in financial contributions, which should be taken into account by the european commission.
in writing. - i stress the importance of the commission presenting to parliament and the council, during the last year of application of the new protocol and before the opening of negotiations for its renewal, a full report on its implementation. i would particularly like to highlight the significant improvements in the technical annex to the protocol to reflect the latest developments in mozambican national fisheries legislation.
in writing. the report recognises the urgency of concluding a new protocol on fishing opportunities and financial compensation in the partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of mozambique. it is regrettable, however, that it has been delayed, even though it was involuntary. significant improvements were introduced as a financial counterpart of eur 2,94 million (with a contribution of eur 980 000 per year from the union budget) for a period of 3 years, i.e. until 31 december 2014, and a fishing opportunity for 43 purse seiners and 32 surface longliners, for a total of 75 vessels. i therefore agree with the document adopted by the european parliament today.
in writing. - the eu-mozambique fisheries partnership agreement provides for a contribution of eur 980 000 per year, of which eur 520 000 is related to access for european vessels to the mozambican fishing zone and eur 460 000 to support the sectoral policy of mozambique. the rapporteur highlights the amendments to the protocol to reflect the latest developments in the mozambican national fisheries legislation. it also provides that the salary of mozambican seamen may not be lower than that of crews of national vessels. we supported the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. - i support this ambitious proposal because i consider it to be an essential part of our way out of the crisis. the introduction of this system will make the global financial sector more stable, less time-based and more focused on financing the real economy. two important amendments introduced by us, the socialists and democrats in the european parliament, are undoubtedly those concerning the right of issue, which ensures that a non-european investor will be forced to pay this tax if he buys a financial instrument launched in the european union, and the second, concerning the right of ownership, which ensures that the instrument cannot be transferred unless the fee is paid.
in writing. − at a time when european citizens are facing significant tax increases as well as severe cuts in wages and pensions, the financial system, which is largely responsible for this crisis, remains virtually exempt from taxation of its activities and transactions. on the other hand, the serious financial difficulties faced by many member states prevent them from addressing future challenges, such as financing growth and sustainable development. we need tax alternatives that are fair and do not punish citizens any more. the european commission estimates that the financial transaction tax could generate up to €57 billion in revenue, allowing investment to shift from speculative transactions to growth-generating production. in implementing this proposal, some precautions need to be taken to prevent tax evasion and not to shift the costs onto consumers and citizens. given that this tax should be applied as widely as possible and that it benefits the eu as a whole, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the current economic and financial crisis, which is slow to disappear, has, as we all know, its origins in the financial sector. a rogue industry that has bankrupted thousands of businesses and thrown millions of people out of work. if the financial crisis was triggered by the financial economy, it is only fair that this sector should also pay a share of the crisis and not just the citizens, as is happening at the moment. the report under discussion, which was prepared by anni podimata, deals with the proposal for a council directive on a common system of financial transaction tax (ftt) and amending directive 2008/7/ec. i voted in favour of this proposal because it improves transparency and relieves the citizens by means of a fair contribution from the financial sector. i hope that the ift will be approved at the next meeting of the eu's finance ministers in july.
in writing. − we generally support the proposal to create a financial transaction tax. we've been defending him for a long time. whether as an instrument of (some) fiscal justice or as an instrument to combat financial speculation, it is necessary, but not sufficient in itself. we have reservations and disagreements about certain specific aspects of this proposal. while these reservations and disagreements have not changed our vote, they could strongly influence our position at later stages of this debate, such as on the management of tax revenue (an issue which goes beyond the scope of this directive, despite the unacceptable consideration that it was included by the majority of parliament in this regard). the principle that tax revenue should replace part of national contributions to the community budget, reducing the direct contributions of the member states, is unacceptable to us. this principle will maintain a budget of poverty, while at the same time providing relief to the richest countries with higher gni (including those with a larger transaction market), thus calling into question the redistributive function of the budget and, with it, the proclaimed (but never implemented) principle of economic and social cohesion. we also disagree with the relatively more favourable treatment given to derivatives (which are more prone to speculation).
in writing. - i am opposed in principle to the introduction of a european tax which would override those of the member states and would also place a tax burden on more people than in many countries, where austerity has increased all contributions. in addition, taxation is an important instrument for governments from an economic and financial point of view, and i was against the idea of a european tax when i campaigned for the last elections for which i was elected.
in writing. − i obviously voted in favour of the creation of a financial transaction tax (rel. podimata), which i have long advocated, even when it was politically incorrect (as happened in the 2009 election campaign). firstly, it is a means of combating financial speculation, especially in the case of high-frequency financial transactions, which is a huge asset in these times of increasing global financialization of the economy. secondly, the tff can - and should - act as the union's own financial resource, thus partly strengthening the firepower of the community budget and partly reducing national contributions, which are currently a burden on national budgets, which are under enormous pressure from budgetary consolidation programmes. in short, it is a remarkable contribution to the strengthening of the financial and budgetary integration of the european union.
in writing. − according to european commission estimates, the financial transaction tax could generate revenues of up to €57 billion, allowing investment to move from speculative transactions to growth-generating production. i voted in favour of this report which envisages this alternative taxation, which no longer penalises citizens, is for application in the eu27 benefiting the eu as a whole and therefore aims to be fairer taxation.
in writing. − at a time when european citizens are facing significant tax increases as well as severe cuts in wages and pensions, the financial system (partly responsible for this crisis) remains largely exempt from taxation of its activities and transactions. on the other hand, the serious financial difficulties faced by many member states prevent them from addressing future challenges, such as financing growth and sustainable development. we need tax alternatives that are fair and do not punish citizens any more. according to european commission estimates, the financial transaction tax could generate revenues of up to €57 billion, allowing investment to be shifted from speculative transactions to growth-generating production. in implementing this proposal, however, some caution is needed to avoid disproportionately disrupting the european financial system, preventing tax evasion and not shifting the costs onto consumers and citizens. i voted in favour of this report because i think it is justified to introduce this tax.
in writing. the global financial crisis has spread rapidly to the real economy of countries, with profound consequences for the social, economic and even political systems of some countries. state intervention in some financial institutions as a last resort has necessitated large expenditures of public funds. for this reason, and because of the implementation of serious austerity measures that affect the daily lives of european citizens, i agree that the financial sector should contribute to the costs of this crisis. the application of a financial transaction tax has as its main objectives: to make the financial sector pay the costs of this crisis, as other sectors do; to discourage highly speculative and risky activities and to reorient the sector towards long-term productive investments; to implement a complementary measure to financial market regulation, avoiding future crises; and finally to generate additional revenue for eu own resources or associated with eu public policies and goods, in particular development aid, combating climate change. however, for it to have a multiplier effect, it must be implemented in as many countries as possible. the eu must therefore take the lead in applying this rate among member states, in order to create a progressively global dynamic.
in writing. the principle of this tax, which we have long advocated, is important in combating financial speculation. however, it will certainly be ineffective if it is not accompanied by other decisive measures such as the end of tax havens and speculative financial products, in particular derivatives. we have some concerns about this report and the commission's proposal for a directive. first, derivatives and other structured products, where the greatest volume of speculation is concentrated, are those to which the lowest rate applies. secondly, we are totally opposed to the possibility of the revenue from this levy being used to replace national contributions in the community budget, since this does not strengthen the community budget, but only relieves the budgets of the countries with the highest national contributions, which are precisely those which benefit most from the internal market and the liberalisation of markets. on the other hand, we think it would be fairer if the primacy of revenue were due to the states with which the products are primarily associated, irrespective of the tax residence of the institutions concerned. we are faced with a fair measure, but one which, dissociated from the necessary change in the economic policies of the eu, will have little or no effect.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it essential to balance trade relations between two of the world's largest trading blocs: the european union and china, and the need for growth stated by the chinese authorities, based on the increase in living standards and the corresponding increase in domestic consumption, can bring great economic opportunities for europeans. however, we must not forget the main reason for this imbalance: european companies cannot invest in china today on the same terms as chinese investors invest in europe. in addition, there are still trade barriers to access to chinese markets, a lack of equality in public procurement, a lack of intellectual property protection that discourages european investors based on new technologies, and restrictions imposed by the authorities on chinese raw materials. i therefore support greater economic cooperation between the european union and china, but only if european companies have the same conditions in the chinese market as chinese investors have in europe, otherwise we will only be further aggravating the imbalances between the two economic blocs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it takes a balanced approach to china. china is currently a source of concern in the area of intellectual property rights infringement, corruption, wto subsidy rules violations and discrimination against foreign operators. for these reasons, i consider it important to look at the automatic granting of market economy status in 2016 and it will be important for the eu to carry out periodic assessments in the form of annual reports to see whether china is complying with its obligations under the wto accession protocol.
in writing. - despite the question mark in the title of the resolution, i believe that it is now clear that there is a real trade imbalance between the european union and china, which, despite the internal changes it is undertaking, is still far from being a market economy. the differences in access to their markets by external investors, as well as in workers' rights and levels of social and environmental responsibility and accountability, which have justified the relocation of formerly european-based industries, are also evident. in view of this clear disadvantage between the two, the european union should seek to ensure greater reciprocity in its trade relationship with china. it has the opportunity to give a clear signal of openness and to demonstrate the extent to which it is ready to work with the european union and other international actors to develop a freer and fairer economic order.
in writing. - for several years, we have heard that china was a sleeping giant. it turns out that this giant has woken up and is dominating the world commercially. its economic growth, and consequently its gdp, is among the highest on the planet. trade between the european union (eu) and china - although in the interest of both sides - is proving to be highly unbalanced with the balance of trade tilting towards the chinese side. although europe's export potential to china is high, the cost of factors of production, starting with labour, is unparalleled. furthermore, we cannot consider china a market economy. the rights of workers are not respected, nor are the rights of authors, and there are no concerns about the environment. therefore, china has been delaying its accession to the world trade organization (wto). while i am not in favour of closing the european market to chinese products, i believe that in the next partnership agreement we must demand reciprocity and respect for eu principles and values. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by marielle de sarnez and i hope for reciprocity in mutual market access.
in writing. - this report proposes to increase eu investment in the chinese market, which it considers to be blocked by non-compliance with the market economy criteria as defined by the wto. virtually the whole report is a critique of china's protectionist trade policies. it urges china to open its markets and allow trade liberalisation subject to wto rules. among other things, it criticises chinese export subsidies but refrains from doing the same with regard to europeans. as we said during the debate, this is a view and a path which we unequivocally reject. so, of course, we voted against this report. we cannot ignore the serious consequences of free trade. we cannot ignore the fact that the eu's common commercial policy has deprived the member states, especially those with weaker economies, of a very important instrument for defending their interests in trade. the offensive interests of the stronger economies and their economic groups have prevailed, leaving the weaker ones unable to safeguard specific, weaker interests and productive sectors. with china, or with any other country, trade relations should be oriented towards complementarity and not competition, which is the spirit of free trade.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this recommendation by the european parliament. the eu is the first destination for chinese exports, which increased by 39,5% between 2009 and 2010, with china being the eu's second largest trading partner. the increasing development of china's economy and its accession to the wto imply increased responsibilities to play a full and positive role in the world economic order. china joined the wto in 2001 and must respect wto rules by liberalizing trade and opening up its markets. however, their efforts in this direction are still not sufficient. china does not meet the market economy criteria as defined by the wto. the commission should apply the principle of reciprocity to the eu's common trade policy with developed and emerging countries, such as china, in order to restore fair competition. eu-china relations will develop on the basis of partnership and mutual benefit, not bitter competition.
in writing. − eu-china trade relations have evolved considerably over the last 30 years, as has china's growing influence on the international scene. i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the eu and china need to update the terms of their 1985 cooperation agreement. although china cannot yet be considered as a market economy, it is nevertheless appropriate to include in this agreement more stringent rules on imports and exports of products.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i consider it extremely important to strengthen economic relations between the european union and china and to correct certain imbalances. i would like to stress in particular my agreement with the concerns expressed that foreign companies face difficulties in accessing chinese public tenders and that there is no reciprocity in this respect.
in writing. − this own-initiative report sets out the causes of trade imbalances and the main obstacles to trade, stressing that reciprocity on the part of the chinese authorities is the solution to ending the problems of access to the chinese market for european companies. the problems facing european investment in china are many, including: barriers to entry and protectionism; limited access to public procurement due to complex bureaucracy, lack of transparency and competition and rules contrary to international law; violations of intellectual property rights, protectionist measures on european participation in technology companies; restrictions on the export of rare raw materials; overvaluation of the yuan which leads to increased investment in europe and the purchase of advanced technologies and european sovereign debt. for there to be a true partnership, the principle of reciprocity must be accepted and applied by both sides. the same conditions of access and the application of international standards for the reinforcement of the cooperation agreement signed in 1985. i also think it is important that there should be more coordination between the member states so that bilateral agreements do not weaken the position that the eu must take in the face of these problems.
in writing. - this report is a criticism of china's protectionist trade policies, seeking to pressure china to open up its markets and allow trade liberalisation subject to wto rules. we voted against this report because of the disastrous and harmful consequences of free trade, which leaves the countries with the weakest economies without the possibility of defending their commercial interests and their productive sectors. we are in favour of a foreign trade policy which is not competitive but complementary and cooperative.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that in order to ensure a wide range of effective remedies, natural or legal persons other than institutions or bodies of the union and the member states should have a pre-litigation remedy before the european parliament, so that they can challenge decisions taken or in force. i also stress the need to respect the separation of powers in order to avoid abuses of legislative, executive and judicial powers, which must be kept separate from each other.
in writing. - the right of inquiry is an important aspect of the european parliament's power of scrutiny. the treaty of lisbon has changed the institutional balance and strengthened the political dimension of parliament. article 14 tfeu expressly provides that parliament exercises political control functions. the report, which i have supported, therefore argues that committees of inquiry should have the means to carry out their role of examining allegations of breaches or maladministration in the application of union law, in line with the case law of the court of justice. furthermore, all conclusions of an investigation should be based only on elements of evidentiary value. a committee of inquiry should therefore be able to carry out, within the limits of its mandate, any inquiry it deems necessary for the performance of its duties. it should also be able to summon any person whose testimony or knowledge is deemed necessary to support the investigation in question. finally, it is noted that witnesses duly summoned are required to respond spontaneously, fully and honestly to questions put by members of the commission. in the same vein, failure to comply with these obligations should entail the application of appropriate sanctions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i consider that committees of inquiry should have the means to examine allegations of breach or maladministration in the application of union law; that all conclusions of an inquiry should be based solely on evidence of probative value; that committees may carry out any type of inquiry, provided that the rules are clear and established in advance; request documents, hear officials and other agents of the union or of the member states, call witnesses and request expert reports.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the methods of exercising the right of inquiry. the proposed improvements are linked to an appropriate legal framework to ensure that the political control exercised by the european parliament is serious and effective and is in line with the expectations of european citizens in terms of democratic accountability and good governance.
in writing. - the european parliament's powers have been strengthened by the treaty of lisbon. the logical consequence of this strengthening is the possibility of adopting a regulation which seeks to give operational substance to the role of committees of inquiry, to strengthen their potential scope of action and the means at their disposal so that they can operate with dignity, rigor and efficiency, in the light of what is already happening in other parliaments. i would point out that such committees must take account of the right of the respondents to contradict themselves. i would like to recall a few less encouraging incidents in the course of hearings of candidates for the post of commissioner, in which they were subjected to less than appropriate behaviour by some members who misused the statements made. i therefore hope that the desirable strengthening of the operation of these committees will be counterbalanced by a responsible use of this instrument which is both useful and fair.
in writing. - this report aims to create the conditions for strengthening the european parliament's (ep) powers of inquiry, which have been strengthened by the treaty of lisbon and the resulting removal of powers from the institutions of national sovereignty. the strengthening of the ep's powers of inquiry does not enhance its legitimacy, nor does it guarantee the political adequacy that should be associated with it. the examination of allegations of breach or maladministration in the application of eu law by the ep - an institution whose numerical composition expresses its dominance by the great powers - is from the outset doomed to serve the interests of the forces that dominate it. we cannot agree with the strengthening of the investigative powers of the ep, that is, with the interference of the ep, by forcing sovereign countries to hand over documents, calling witnesses, hearing officials and other agents of the eu and the member states; the obligation of citizens and member states to give the ep access to documents that the ep considers relevant; the application of effective sanctions to be decided by the ep and to be applied by the member states. although the report is in favour of the separation of powers (political and judicial), the confusion is evident and does not make the ep more democratic.
in writing. - with the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the institutional balance in the union has been renewed and improved. this proposal for a regulation on the procedures for exercising the right of inquiry of the european parliament and repealing decision 95/167/ec, euratom, ecsc of the european parliament, the council and the commission confirms the right of inquiry as an important element of parliamentary scrutiny by conferring specific, legitimate and clearly defined powers on the committees of inquiry of the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to revise the european parliament's powers of inquiry (david martin report) because it strengthens parliament's power of scrutiny over the government and administration of the european union. this is a timely update of this parliamentary instrument following the treaty of lisbon, which gave the representative assembly of european citizens all the powers of a genuine parliament, in particular with regard to powers of control and political scrutiny. this is an important contribution to the building of a parliamentary democracy in the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the ways in which the european parliament exercises its right of inquiry. i would stress the introduction of the rule that committees of inquiry must fully respect the rights of the persons they ask to testify, in accordance with the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms and the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. - the right of inquiry is a very important aspect of parliament's power of scrutiny. since the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the european parliament's political control functions, it is justified to strengthen its committees of inquiry by giving them the means to carry out fully their role of examining allegations of breach or maladministration in the application of eu law. the regulation proposed here is precisely concerned with the exercise of the right of inquiry by the european parliament, and it lays down a set of rules which are intended to help improve the functioning and effectiveness of future committees of inquiry. that is why i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - the right of inquiry is an important aspect of a parliament's power of scrutiny. this right is exercised in very different ways by democratic parliaments around the world. the european parliament has used this right with great caution, but the treaty of lisbon explicitly gave parliament the right of initiative. since the procedure has changed, parliament does not amend the old ones but proposes a new regulation. the committees may therefore carry out any type of inquiry, in particular on-the-spot investigations, request documents, hear officials and other servants of the union or of the member states, call witnesses and request expert reports, and have access to all documents and information likely to facilitate their work. for these reasons i voted in favour of the report in plenary.
in writing. - the european parliament's (ep) inquiry exercise is an instrument that takes away the sovereignty of the national institutions, reinforcing the power of the ep. as we know, the ep has a majority of members from the great powers, so the suitability of this instrument is in doubt. it is the interests of the great powers that will be best defended here. we are totally against the strengthening of investigative powers, which are nothing more than interference in the affairs of other countries, against the fact that citizens and member states are obliged to hand over relevant documents to the ep, and against the application of sanctions by the ep.
mr president, almost a year after south sudan's independence, as some of us had expected, the violence in the relationship between the two states has worsened, with accusations, attacks and retaliation preventing the resolution of outstanding issues, namely the sharing of oil resources, the constitutional status of abyei and the demilitarisation of the border areas. the european union, which has invested so much in the peaceful settlement of the conflict by separating the two states, now has the obligation to commit itself from the outset to the implementation of the roadmap for the cessation of hostilities adopted by the african union with the support of the united nations the security council and also to the follow-up of electoral missions in the north and the south and the handing over of president omar al-bashir to the international criminal court cannot be excluded from the objectives of the european union. the democratic development of northern sudan depends on it. the excellent work of the high representative must be duly supported by a herculean effort to train for governance in south sudan. without this there will be no peace efforts worthwhile to the peoples of the region. the european union must also give adequate support to the work of humanitarian organisations on the ground, which have encountered so many difficulties in supporting the thousands of displaced people and victims of the conflict.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i am pleased to have the opportunity today, on behalf of high representative/vice-president ashton, to discuss the situation in guinea-bissau, and i welcome the attention that the european parliament is giving to it. the current crisis in guinea-bissau clearly reveals once more an attempt by the military to get involved in civilian affairs and gain control of the political affairs of the country. the country remains one of the poorest in the world, ravaged by drug trafficking, and its problems directly affect europe through the drug trade. the way to a solution is to persuade the military to step aside and to reform the army. only then can the country be ruled by civilians legitimated by free and fair elections. the eu strongly condemned the military coup in guinea-bissau on 12 april 2012. we called for the immediate re-establishment of the legitimate government and for the completion of the presidential elections in compliance with the law. we welcome the adoption on 18 may of unsc resolution 2048/2012 on guinea-bissau, imposing individual sanctions on coup leaders and demanding the immediate restoration of the constitutional order, including a democratic electoral process, the return of the military to barracks and their withdrawal from political affairs. the un security council also underlined that those responsible for the human rights violations must be held accountable, and that any lasting solution to instability in guinea-bissau should ensure that those responsible for politically-motivated assassinations, other serious crimes and breaches of constitutional order are brought to justice. we reiterate our strong condemnation of the coup, and encourage all stakeholders to work within the framework of security council resolution 2048 with a view to agreeing on an inclusive road map with agreed benchmarks and a calendar for the return to constitutional order, the implementation of security sector reform, fighting against impunity, combating drug trafficking and the removal of any army grip on power. we stand ready to actively support mediation efforts in the current crisis towards the identification of an inclusive transitional arrangement. we renew our call for the immediate release of all illegally detained persons and for the immediate suspension of the military command’s prohibition on persons, including members of the former government, leaving the country. the eu has already adopted sanctions against six members of the military command and is ready to extend the list to other persons, military and political, who are de facto governing the country and may be responsible for human rights violations and abuses, including arbitrary detentions, ill-treatment during detention and violent repression of peaceful demonstrations, as well as looting and mismanagement of public funds. we already suspended most of our aid last year, and the primary condition for its resumption is local agreement to reform the security sector. we are also concerned about the deteriorating human situation and the constant risk of violence. moreover, we are concerned about the possibility of arrangements that would allow the current leaders of the armed forces to continue to threaten or control the civil powers. democratic stability in guinea-bissau requires the removal of the threat represented by the armed forces, and the reform of the security sector remains an urgent necessity. those responsible for anti-constitutional behaviour or crimes must be held to account; any agreement must be inclusive and democratic; the military must not be allowed, in any case, to dictate who does or does not participate in politics. we are monitoring the latest political and security-related developments in this light. the international community needs to stand united. in this regard, the high representative has encouraged ecowas and the au to bring the concerned partners of the international community together to mobilise coherent political and financial support for the roadmap for return to constitutional order and security sector reform. to this end, a contact group of the international community could usefully be launched.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr wammen, the first thing i would like to say is that it is regrettable that the vice-president of the commission and high representative, mrs ashton, is not present at a debate of this importance. in any case, we are pleased to be working once again with mr wammen, who has made a statement here in which i fully agree. i would first of all like to express my sympathy and solidarity with the people of guinea-bissau, who have been systematically massacred by democratic instability, political instability and great insecurity. it was no longer enough that the poverty of his surroundings had been systematically affected by these evils. i would also like to say that the ppe, in its presidency, has been following this matter from the beginning and that it is also regrettable that the european parliament has been unable to hold a debate on this matter for a month. this has to do with the invisibility of the guinean people and the guinean question. and this invisibility is due to the fact that, unlike other matters, which are also very serious, there are no major economic interests at stake here that motivate the european, american and world powers to discuss the situation of the guinean people. but i must say, if an external motive is needed, if poverty and political instability are not enough for us to have global humanitarian and political action, at least the situation of drug trafficking that is rampant in guinea and that directly affects the european and american peoples is a reason for us to engage in this. and that is why i am calling on the european union to be stronger. there is no doubt that resolution 2048, there is no doubt that the decisions of the european union, the community of portuguese-speaking countries, the african union, but perhaps not the community of west african states, are going in the right direction. but resolutions are not enough, we need action. we must be more firm, we must be more effective in dealing with the states which have the capacity to intervene in guinea-bissau. that is our obligation. and i believe that the european union is responding well at the moment in terms of principles, but it is not responding as it should in terms of the practical instruments of the operation on the ground, and that is what i ask the council and i ask the commission.
the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. the european union made a mistake by withdrawing aid and, above all, by withdrawing the mission to support security sector reform it had in guinea-bissau in response to the political killings of 2010. it was time to strengthen the mission in terms of its scope and mandate, as some of us have suggested, because, as minister wammen said, what is needed is to send the military back to their barracks in guinea-bissau and to place them clearly under the control of democratic civilian power. without this, guinea-bissau will not restore constitutional order or security to its citizens and the whole region, and will not strengthen the structures of its state and society to resist the exploitation by drug trafficking networks and other organised crime. to do this, the european union must apply politically, in practice, not just in rhetoric, un security council resolution 2048, which identifies the main coup plotters and imposes sanctions on them and which calls for the restoration of the legitimate authorities, namely the government headed by prime minister carlos gomes júnior, who was forced to leave the country, and the interim president raimundo pereira. to this end, the european union must first of all warn ecowas and all its members, who are acp partners of the european union and therefore bound by the democratic obligations and respect for human rights enshrined in the cotonou convention that it is not tolerable for ecowas in guinea-bissau, as in mali, to support solutions that rehabilitate the coup plotters and allow them to rehearse a farce of transition in clear violation of the democratic constitutional order. guinea-bissau, which is also our acp partner, cannot continue to be abandoned by the european union. the european union must work with the major regional actors under the aegis of the un, ecowas, the african union and the cplp to implement a rescue operation for a country which is now on the edge of the list of failed states, plagued by extreme poverty, bad governance and the waste of its human and natural resources. military support for the return of the legitimate prime minister must be provided. we need a concerted policy, first to protect the people of guinea-bissau from an impending humanitarian disaster and then to support a programme of action against the causes of the problems that are plaguing the country and the guinean society, from poverty to underdevelopment and lack of governance. the european union's own interest is at stake, because the security of guinea-bissau is our security in a region where drug trafficking is allied with the terrorism of boko haram and al-qaida in the maghreb.
on behalf of the green/efa group. mr president, a month ago our high representative, mrs ashton, was here and i regretted, i protested, that she was too quick to take a stand in defence of the oil company repsol and at the same time said nothing about guinea-bissau. she then promised me that she would take action and that she would be attentive to the case of guinea-bissau. a month later, we find that representative ashton is not here in this debate on guinea-bissau, and that is regrettable and once again confirms what my colleague paulo rangel has said so far - the invisibility of the problem of guinea-bissau, when he tells us so much about the region of the world in which it is and, above all, because we are faced with a people who do not want a failed state, who have done everything not to have a failed state and who have two forces that continually throw them into the category of failed state: the military and drug trafficking. two forces that are, in fact, interconnected. much more can be done for guinea-bissau and it is possible to solve guinea-bissau's problems. the deposed president and prime minister of guinea-bissau are now in portugal, seeking support for the military to leave power and for the democratic process to be resumed. the united nations resolutions, particularly its resolution 2048, are correct in what they say. what our external action service said here in this debate could also be fully endorsed. the problem is not with words, the problem is with actions. why is the european union not doing more, for example by calling for a high-level bilateral meeting with the community of west african states, ecowas, which has been taking an attitude of acceptance, of legitimizing a coup d'état, with the acceptance of the implementation of a transitional president and a series of measures that are simply not acceptable? the only acceptable solution is to implement the un resolution, to send a stabilisation and peace force, with the agreement of the guineans, which can allow the return to the country of the legitimate rulers, and it is, from the point of view of the european union, to go back and try to solve some of the mistakes we have made, namely by withdrawing the mission that was in guinea-bissau, precisely to help a transition, to a civilization, in the narrow sense, of the military forces in that country, without which guinea-bissau will not know the peace, stability and prosperity that it so needs and has so desired, because its people have done so much.
mr president, thank you very much, this debate we are having here today is based on what happened on 12 april, when a group of military men abused power, arrested the prime minister and the president of the republic and forced the transfer of power to a national council which has no democratic and legitimate representation. the state of guinea-bissau is a state in great danger, it is a very fragile state, it is a state which needs support in order to be able to move towards a situation of legality and legitimacy. there are protests from the international community, much of it not even heard, there are protests from the international community that are nothing to the rioters. unfortunately, this is not the first time that situations like this have happened in guinea-bissau and, if we insist on stressing the invisibility of the situation in guinea-bissau, they will certainly not be the last, and that is why we must make this issue visible and visible here in parliament too, we cannot stop at speeches, which is why i have had the opportunity, within my group, to work on a draft resolution. i know that the same has been done in other political groups, and it is time for them to be voted on and for parliament to have a very clear say on this situation, which is a very serious one. we cannot stop at speeches, this is the time for action and that is the same action that i ask the high representative, who is not here, to take on this matter and on this situation. we must be very clear about the way forward, and that way is to support the legitimate and legal authorities of guinea-bissau and to invest in security, defence and the fight against drug trafficking in the region and the country concerned. these are the ways in which we need to go, and these are the ways in which i sincerely hope to hear from the council leaders at the end of this debate, as the ways forward.
mr president, we strongly condemn the military coup in guinea-bissau. no solution to the current situation in the country will be acceptable unless the country's constitutional framework is restored and respected as a guarantee that the guinean people will freely decide on their destiny, without external interference or impositions. for this reason, it is necessary to unequivocally recognise the institutions, authorities and legitimate representatives of guinea at the time of the coup, and to resume the electoral process, which was under way for the election of the president of the republic. it is also necessary to reject unequivocally any decisions which do not respect these premises and which seek to implement and impose as a fait accompli the aims of the military coup. the immediate and unconditional release of all guinean citizens detained as a result of the military coup is also required, as is the firm denunciation of measures aimed at repressing and persecuting holders of sovereign organs, paigc leaders and activists and citizens of guinea-bissau who have demonstrated against the military coup. this coup, and the persistence of the situation it has created, are not unrelated to conflicts between interests that are alien to, and even contrary to, the interests of the guinean people. we wish to express our full solidarity with the people of guinea and call for urgent measures to meet their needs. the situation in the country has deteriorated alarmingly since the bissau coup, with urgent calls for help arriving daily, with shortages of food, medicine, medical and surgical equipment, drinking water and fuel. this situation cannot be ignored, especially by those who continue to bear responsibility for the difficult situation in the country even before the coup. the difficult economic and social situation in the country is also a reflection of the failure of imf and world bank programmes, as well as of european union policies towards the region, for example in the so-called economic partnership agreements. genuine aid and cooperation are therefore required, which take account of the problems, difficulties and needs felt in the country and which respect the right of the guinean people to decide freely and sovereignly on their own destiny.
mr president, the industrial societies are built on the consumption of enormous amounts of energy and increasingly scarce mineral resources. many of them are now strategic in nature and their management must be guided by the imperative of safeguarding the public interest, taking into account the needs of present and future populations. the reduction of consumption, reuse, recycling and the efficient use of resources are all imperative needs, but their pursuit cannot be left to the whims of the market and its expectations of profitability, as some seem to want. the sustainable and efficient use of resources requires a profound change in current production and consumption patterns. for example, we must question free trade and the unsustainable flows of energy and materials associated with it, we must focus on local production and consumption, short supply chains, public transport. what is not worthwhile is trying to paint a system green that has already revealed to society its unsustainability.
the only way to growth and jobs in europe is through a resource-efficient europe, as this increases its competitiveness and creates new sources of growth and jobs in a number of sectors of activity, many of which are not yet properly exploited in the eu. in addition, it generates greater cost savings through more efficient resource management, marketing and innovation processes in their life cycles. we must therefore support a europe which is increasingly efficient and competitive on the world stage. the eu must make better use of resources for the sake of the environment and its future economic growth. we have set ambitious plans to tackle this issue, it is now up to member states to rise to the challenge and strive for resource efficiency. this would mean economic growth, job creation and environmental protection. the member states should converge towards polluter-payer taxation, which would stimulate environmental protection and technological innovation and would allow for cuts in other taxes, such as labour taxes. inefficient use and waste of resources should be more severely penalized in order to help boost competitiveness while preserving the environment.
madam president, shockingly, there is a generation of young people, already called the lost generation, who are being forced to emigrate from my country. in addition to the human drama and social and economic problems, its absence will create a generational gap, with unforeseeable consequences for the economic recovery that portugal needs to embark on. president barroso's concerns are therefore timely, but they must extend to the regions. i know that the azores presented a programme to the portuguese government in march to use the proposed instruments to combat the terrible scourge of youth unemployment which the crisis has also brought to the region. what we are now hoping for is that the portuguese government will include in the national plan as quickly as the president of the european commission has recommended and that the answers that young europeans so badly need and that the european project cannot refuse will quickly reach portugal and the member states. i was asking the commission if it has any information on the projects for portugal.
madam president, youth unemployment is a plague on the european union. the community average for youth unemployment is 22.4%, although in reality this figure will be higher. young people, including the most qualified, are also experiencing the growing drama of precariousness, instability and uncertainty about their future. the community budget must be strengthened in general and specifically aimed at promoting employment, creating jobs, redistributing its resources to the countries where this problem is most acute. however, we are not deluded. there is no job creation possible without a decisive break with the so-called austerity policies which the majority of this parliament supports through the policies of economic governance, the stability and growth pact and the budget treaty. reducing wages and pensions, shutting down public services, privatizations, reforming deregulating labor laws only lead to a bottomless spiral of economic recession and unemployment. anyone who wants to seriously discuss the problem of youth unemployment cannot simultaneously support and be complacent and sympathetic to policies which destroy jobs every day, and thus also destroy the dreams, rights and future of today's young people.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, madam president, despite the production of national, community and international legislation and guidelines, the problem of wage discrimination persists and is worsening. in the european union, women earn 16.4% less than men and the pay gap is widening. the report in question has once again raised this issue and, in a generally positive way, although we have some considerations to make, we agree with this report. one of the labour rights that has been most attacked in labour reviews outside europe at the moment is the principle of collective bargaining, which is one of the most important ways of protecting women workers from wage discrimination, and so it should have been given a more central role in this report. on the other hand, in the context of the evolution of labour policies towards precariousness, we refuse to support measures which insist even more on the flexibility of labour ties. one of the aspects we value most in this report is the defence of sanctions for employers who do not comply with the principle of equal pay. we do not, however, have the perspective that employers discriminate against women in terms of pay because they are insensitive to equality or even because they are distracted. this policy of discrimination against women by employers is rational, intentional and deliberate. the greater the wage discrimination, the lower the wage values for women, the higher the profits for employers. thus, only the application of penalties which are less compensatory than the wage discrimination they apply will be able to deter employers from this illegal practice. finally, we should like to say that the so-called austerity policies, which by destroying jobs and withdrawing wage values, apply enormous pressures on workers and on the acceptance of low wage values, will not contribute to the realization of the right to equal pay, but only to secondaryise, minimise and destroy it.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing with the position that the democratic effectiveness of the amf should be strengthened by means of a reference which makes explicit the political and democratic measures and respect for human rights, which should be included in the memorandum of understanding, and this could be a conditionality factor, i.e. if these principles are not respected by third countries, they could be subject to sanctions or reimbursement of funds allocated by the european union. in addition, a clearer and more efficient mfa and a more democratic process are needed, with the involvement of the european parliament, which must give its consent, based on preconditions that must be agreed before the signing of the memorandum of understanding between the european union and third countries.
in writing. report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation laying down general provisions for the granting of macrofinancial assistance to third countries. the eu's macrofinancial assistance was launched in 1990 to provide assistance to third countries experiencing short-term balance of payments difficulties. to date, 55 decisions on macrofinancial assistance have been adopted for 23 countries, amounting to a total of eur 7.2 billion, in the form of grants or loans or combinations of both. since macrofinancial assistance is one of, if not the main source of external financing for many third countries, i believe it is essential to create a formal legal instrument for the granting of such aid, so that it is implemented in a harmonised and regulated manner.
in writing. - since 1990, macrofinancial assistance (mfa) has supported third countries in short-term balance of payments difficulties. this aid can take the form of grants or loans, or combinations of both, and has been given 55 times to 23 different countries. this report seeks to make the amf more effective and adopts and sets out clear rules and conditions for the payment of the amf. i agree that more effective and faster solutions should be sought for the use of this instrument, which is essential to help neighbouring countries in difficulty.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to create a formal legal instrument for the granting of macrofinancial assistance (mfa) to third countries and to create a faster, more efficient and harmonised decision-making process for each operation. this requires agreement on rules and conditions between the eu institutions, updating some of the rules on the geographical scope of the amf and harmonising decision-making with other external financial assistance instruments. parliament has today adopted a document, with my vote in favour, which states that the amf should generate added value from the eu and be granted only when the eu has the possibility of bringing something useful. for example, by decoupling the amf from the existence of an imf programme, the eu will have greater freedom to provide added value and can take a leading role in operations. therefore, in most cases, the eu contribution should not fall below a minimum percentage, ensuring such added value and facilitating countries' access to the benefits of the mfa.
in writing. − the eu's macro-financial assistance (mfa) was established in 1990 to provide resources to third countries experiencing temporary balance of payments difficulties. this assistance may be provided in the form of loans or grants or a combination of both. the eu assistance programme must always be linked to the financial assistance provided by the imf, which is about 10% of the imf programme. we voted against this report because macrofinancial assistance is linked to the imf criteria, the same criteria which condemn countries to poverty through financial discipline, structural adjustment and the economic and social conditionality required. the financial assistance is mainly intended to finance the imf's recommendations and its policy of structural adjustment, i.e. the same neoliberal policies that led to the economic and financial crisis and are aggravating it are being pursued. what is needed are policies of economic cooperation and not blackmail operations on countries in economic difficulties.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it essential that the ukrainian authorities ensure full respect for the rights of all prisoners, including mrs tymoshenko, mr lutsenko and mr ivashchenko. on the other hand, i welcome the adoption of a new criminal code, as it is a significant step in the process of reforming the country's legal and judicial system and in the process of rapprochement with the european union. i also regard the establishment of a constituent assembly and the efforts to ensure that the legislative elections in october 2012 are free and fair as extremely positive. respect for fundamental rights and freedoms in ukraine is a decisive step towards this association agreement providing a crucial modernisation tool and impetus for internal reforms and national reconciliation, which will help the country to overcome recent negative trends.
in writing. - in december last year i wrote that it was undeniable that the relationship of trust between the european union and ukraine was at its most delicate and that the timetable for the approval and ratification of the association agreement which the parties had been preparing, which would allow for an even closer rapprochement between the two, could be called into question. unfortunately, the deadlock is still there. ukraine must give a clear signal that it wants to converge effectively with the european union and that it places democracy, human rights and the rule of law at the top of its reform agenda.
in writing. - the violation of human rights in ukraine has been the subject of discussion in this parliament on several occasions. although ukraine has expressed its desire to join the european union (eu), the negotiation process has not progressed as quickly as it should because the ukrainian authorities have not provided sufficient evidence of their willingness to pursue a set of reforms that are holding up the process, particularly with regard to the democratisation of institutions and fundamental freedoms. a good example of the lack of respect for fundamental freedoms and guarantees is the case of yulia tymoshenko, the former prime minister who is detained for political reasons and is very weak in terms of health. i welcome the adoption of this joint motion for a resolution tabled under rule 110 of the rules of procedure, replacing the simple motions for resolutions tabled by the following political groups: s&d, alde, verts/ale, ppe and ecr, for which i voted in favour. a country which advocates a european perspective must move forward with the implementation of democracy. politically motivated persecution and disregard for the rule of law are not acceptable. any agreement between the eu and ukraine must make this very clear: absolute respect for the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated. it resumes its usual policy of interference and manipulation of facts, seeking to conform them to the view of reality that best serves the interests of the major powers of the eu. yulia tymoshenko was at the forefront of the colour revolutions in ukraine, driven by the support of the eu, the us and nato. the current, recalcitrant power refuses to fulfill the role that the great powers of the eu/usa/nato had reserved for the country's authorities. it is recalled that ukraine is a pivotal point for the geostrategic interests of some eu powers, particularly in the energy field. the process of liberalization and privatization has led to the unbridled enrichment of a few, in the shadow of the local oligarchy, while the vast majority of the ukrainian people have been left with the prospect of social regression. not a word about that in this resolution... the majority of the ep does not reserve a word.
in writing. − we are all aware that ukraine is a country of strategic importance to the eu, because of its size, its resources, its population and its geographical location, ukraine occupies a unique position in europe, which makes this country a regional actor of the greatest importance, with a significant influence on the security, stability and prosperity of the entire continent, and therefore it must assume its share of political responsibility. we cannot forget that ukraine's record on human rights, its respect for civil and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, with the incorporation of fair, impartial and independent judicial processes, and the emphasis on internal reforms are fundamental requirements for the development of relations between the european union and ukraine. we must therefore condemn the position of the ukrainian authorities in the resolution of the yulia tymoshenko case, although there is at present a slight openness on the part of the ukrainian authorities.
in writing. - ukraine is a country of strategic importance to the european union. in the context of its foreign and neighbourhood policy, the european union intends to develop its relations with ukraine at various levels: political, economic and cultural. parliament deplored the conviction of yulia tymoshenko and stressed that strengthening the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary and an effective fight against corruption were necessary not only for relations between the european union and ukraine but also for the consolidation of democracy in ukraine. i therefore voted in favour of this joint resolution of the european parliament.
in writing. the resolution also calls on the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's external relations are not compromised by the threat of a nuclear war. the majority of the ep behaves as usual, promotes interference, manipulates facts, creates or exacerbates others, praises former or current allies. so too is yulia tymoshenko, a woman who was at the forefront of ukraine's color revolutions, propelled by eu, us and nato support, and who increased her wealth considerably during her time in power. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it should also be remembered that ukraine has a pivotal role for the interests of the us/main eu powers, notably in the energy field and in the geostrategic field for nato in its encirclement of russia.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking particular account of the findings of the european agency for fundamental rights in its report on homophobia, transphobia and discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity. these results demonstrate the need for the european commission to take appropriate action, in line with the proposal for an annual report on the implementation of the charter of fundamental rights. discrimination on the grounds of sex or gender must be combated, as the european union must defend the fundamental freedoms of its citizens and ensure their protection, guaranteed full respect by all citizens.
in writing. − the right to liberty and the principle of equality are concepts which have shaped western civilization and the rule of law. that is why these states guarantee in their universal declarations and constitutions that no one can be discriminated against on the basis of his or her sexual orientation. this was a fundamental advance in the fight against discrimination and against homophobia. but unfortunately we know that there are still many states which do not accept these principles and which practice true barbarism against men and women on the basis of their sexual orientation alone. that is why this parliament condemns and will always condemn acts of discrimination.
in writing. − the international covenant on civil and political rights prohibits any discriminatory legislation or practice related to sexual orientation. however, even in countries that have signed up to the pact, we have seen violations of the principle of non-discrimination, as recently happened in st petersburg, russia, with the violent attack on a bus carrying lesbian, gay, bisexual and transgender (lgbt) activists, and in kiev, ukraine, with the beating of two leaders of the gay pride movement. the joint motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) and (4) of the rules of procedure, replacing the simple motions for resolutions tabled by the following political groups: epp, greens/efa, s&d, gue/ngl and alde - which i voted in favour of - deals with the fight against homophobia in europe. homophobia, like racism and xenophobia, undermines society and is contrary to the provisions adopted by this parliament, in particular the anti-discrimination and gender equality directives. no one may be discriminated against on the grounds of sexual orientation, either in the workplace or in any other place or member state. this is a fundamental right which must be respected as such, both inside and outside the european union.
in writing. − we believe that, in pursuing the objective of an effective equality policy, it is important to fight, create and strengthen measures and guidelines which, among other things, combat all types of discrimination, in particular on the basis of sexual orientation. this is a very important fight to eradicate homophobia and all acts or defence of acts of hate speech and incitement to discrimination, ridicule, verbal, psychological and physical violence, among others, which deserve our deep condemnation.
in writing. - i abstained from voting on this resolution because i do not agree with many of the points in it. at a time when europe is experiencing serious economic difficulties, i do not think it is appropriate to deal with this very fractious subject now.
in writing. − respect for human dignity is one of the fundamental pillars of society, so homophobia must be eliminated, since the right to difference and freedom of sexual orientation should also be unquestionable rights. i therefore criticise any and all discrimination and violation based on personal choices. i think it is extremely important that these premises be incorporated at the legislative level and, above all, at the institutional level, through education and raising people's awareness. no one should be humiliated, mistreated or discriminated against because of their sexual orientation.
in writing. − the fight for equality and non-discrimination on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity is a fight of the utmost importance. the facts mentioned in the report deserve the most serious criticism and are part of a very worrying situation which requires reflection and action. we are fighting for another europe, of the workers and peoples, of sovereign nations, equal in rights and duties, where clearly homophobia cannot have a place.
in writing. - i support this proposal, considering that the only way to growth and jobs in europe is based on a resource-efficient europe, as this increases its competitiveness and creates new sources of growth and jobs in a number of sectors of activity, many of which are not yet properly exploited in the european union. in addition, it generates greater cost savings through more efficient resource management, marketing and innovation processes in their life cycles. we must therefore support a europe which is increasingly efficient and competitive on the world stage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal because i believe it is the european parliament's responsibility to encourage the commission, the member states and industry to move towards a more ambitious agenda which does not simply follow the roadmap but initially defines its priorities and criteria for a new growth agenda. it also considered that at international level the eu should play a role of model by encouraging a new agenda for future growth at the rio+20 conference. the eu must use its political and economic strength to put other parts of the world on the same path towards a green economy. to ensure our well-being and that of future generations, we must respect the limits of our planet and decouple our economic growth from our use of resources.
in writing. − energy efficiency is one of the european union's flagships, the main lines of which have been detailed in the european commission's roadmap for a resource efficient europe. it is also one of the pillars of the 2020 strategy for growth and jobs. i therefore support all measures that can put europe on the path to optimising its energy resources, and even more so to contributing to the creation of jobs and the subsequent well-being of europeans in this sector of economic activity which is really expanding. i believe, however, that it is necessary to take full advantage of the legislative processes under way in this area before moving forward with new measures which may overlap and even destroy the effect of the currents.
in writing. - although some european countries are experiencing a population decline, the reality is that the world population is continuing to grow. in addition, gregarious societies continue to shrink and the number of people with more resources increases, so that the number of people belonging to the middle class is expected to double by the year 2050. this phenomenon entails an increased need for raw materials, which is estimated to increase by 150%. against this background, the need for an innovative approach is evident, which, while promoting european competitiveness and economic growth, provides for a reduction of environmental impacts and implements a green economy where natural resources are managed in a sustainable way. this requires close cooperation between the public and private sectors and better coordination with academic centres of excellence developing projects in the areas of food and energy efficiency. i voted in favour of this report on a resource-efficient europe because it is urgent and undeniable that we should work towards the creation of a green economy. the eu cannot lose its leadership but must instead seize this opportunity to create new jobs (green jobs) and increase its exports.
in writing. − we agree on the urgent need to increase resource efficiency. the report contains some recommendations and comments, which are undoubtedly positive. but unfortunately, like others, this report is a paradigm of a markedly commercial approach to environmental problems. the stated objective is positive. we are concerned about the paths chosen to reach it. and we disagree quite strongly with some of the positions taken throughout the report. for example, the creation of a common and solid agenda between the public and private sectors, which is aimed at opening the door to processes of liberalization of the waste market, with the privatization of waste management and collection. we also reject several of the proposals made in the tax field, as they are presented in this report. the logic of making citizens responsible is emphasised at various levels, both by internalizing the external environmental costs, in accordance with the polluter-pays principle, and by choosing products that are more sustainable, reducing waste and its impacts, stressing that what is really needed is to change the current production and consumption models and the economic system underlying them - capitalism - which is intrinsically unsustainable and predatory on the environment and its resources.
in writing. − europe faces challenges but also great opportunities in terms of resource use, as the eu has the opportunity to reap the benefits of the sudden increase in global demand for pm by enhancing the supply and efficiency of pm, while meeting the needs of european industry and the pm sector. the commission's leadership in 2008 on resource efficiency policy was therefore of the utmost importance, but the commission and the member states still need to move towards its swift implementation. i believe that resource policy and resource diplomacy are of great importance to the eu not only in terms of industrial policy and international trade but also as a cross-cutting issue for different areas of internal policy as well as foreign and security policy. the commission must therefore pay attention to this question, as well as to the energy question. i see here a working area for the european external action service (eeas).
in writing. − the european commission has published two proposals on resource efficiency, namely the roadmap to a resource efficient europe and the 'resource efficient europe - europe 2020 flagship initiative'. in view of the increase in the world population and the evolution of the consumption of goods by the newly developed countries, i believe that it is necessary to draw up an agenda for economic growth aimed at an efficient use of existing resources. i am voting in favour of this report which aims to achieve a resource-efficient europe, and where greater coordination is needed at local, regional and national level. increased sharing of good practice within networks of local and regional authorities related to the management of the structural funds should be encouraged. finally, i believe it is essential that work is carried out to improve the quality of life of the population and to ensure intergenerational solidarity, so that young people have a more prosperous future and a better chance of employment.
in writing. − while the stated objective of this report is positive, it approaches environmental problems in a mercantilist way. we do not agree with the creation of a common and solid agenda between the public and private sectors, which is aimed at nothing more than opening the door to processes of liberalization of the waste market, with the privatization of waste management and collection. the prevailing logic is that of making citizens responsible for the choice of their products. what really needs to be taken into account and changed are the modes of production and consumption inherent in the capitalist system, which exploits the environment and its resources for the benefit of a few.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it imperative to work on strategies, economic and labour market policies to create more and better jobs for the youngest so as to combat precariousness. i would like to highlight some important proposals to combat unemployment in a strategy articulated at european level, analysing the national past of each member state in terms of labour market, education and training policies, the creation of a youth guarantee to guarantee the right of all young people to a job, apprenticeship or training complementary to work after a period of unemployment of up to four months, national campaigns to combat school leaving, improving the link between education systems and the labour market, adjusting supply to demand for young people or european recognition in terms of formal and informal learning. history has shown us europeans that austerity measures only worsen our economic and social situation, and at this moment the european union must be concerned about economic growth and employment, otherwise we are doomed to fail and to lose a generation of qualified young people.
in writing. - youth unemployment is one of the most terrible aspects of the crisis we are going through. the focus on education and training to improve the skills of young europeans is therefore a key objective and an essential tool for combating unemployment and encouraging entrepreneurship. the youth opportunities initiative is therefore to be welcomed, particularly in its support and encouragement of job creation for young people through specific programmes, and the european youth guarantee initiative which will allocate eur 4 million to the member states to assist them in setting up youth guarantee programmes. if europe is to successfully meet the ambitious goals of the eu 2020 strategy - with a strong focus on innovation, research and training - it will have to invest in better qualifying its young people, opting for education models that are more geared to future integration into the labour market.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution, tabled following the question with request for an oral answer on the youth opportunities initiative, deals with the need to increase the employment rate at european union level, especially as regards youth employment. the economic and financial crisis that has led to the bankruptcy of thousands and thousands of businesses has thrown millions of people out of work and has raised unemployment rates to unprecedented levels: the average rate in the eu is over 10%, with over 22% among young people. these rates vary from one member state to another, and are almost 50% in the countries most affected by the crisis, such as greece and spain. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu must act quickly. the european union has a duty to help the poorest of the poorest, and to help the poorest of the poorest. in addition, there is a need to strengthen support for smes, especially in terms of bank credit and reducing red tape, as smes may be the biggest contributors to solving this problem.
in writing. - youth unemployment in the european union is taking on shocking proportions. on average, it is 22.4%, although in some countries, such as portugal, it is much higher. this resolution - which contains positive aspects which we value - follows on from the letter from the president of the commission to the eight member states with unemployment rates well above the eu average, which includes portugal, and the dispatch of action teams with the aim of developing youth employment plans in those member states. it's shocking, too, this hypocrisy. youth unemployment in the eu is not due to any fatality. he's a political decision. a policy decision by those, like barroso, who impose policies that sow unemployment and poverty. there will be no job creation unless there is a decisive break with the so-called austerity policies which the majority of this parliament has been supporting.
in writing. - i voted in the belief that the alarming rise in youth unemployment is a threat to the economic and social future of many young people in the european union and is forcing them to pay a very high price for the crisis. i believe that the fight against youth unemployment requires greater investment in education and training in the eu and i see as a priority the development of a more coordinated strategy between national education and training plans and labour market needs.
in writing. − according to eurostat, in march 2012 the european union had more than 5.5 million young unemployed, with an unemployment rate of 22.6%. the most severe cases occur in greece (51.2% in january 2012) and spain (51.1%), with portugal having a youth unemployment rate of 36.2%. i would like to congratulate the ec on the initiatives of the leonardo da vinci programme, erasmus for the first job and erasmus for all. however, new measures are urgently needed to stimulate youth employment so that europe's young people have the opportunity to demonstrate their academic qualifications and professional skills. the €82 billion of community funds announced by the ec must be restructured to stimulate employment, boost financing for the economy and strengthen the single market. it is also important to adopt the new package of measures announced last month by the ec to create more job opportunities for young people and support entrepreneurship. in the next programming period (2014-2020), it is important to allocate a considerable part of the european union's financial resources to supporting the training and qualification of young europeans, as well as to stimulate the development of programmes that facilitate their entry into the labour market.
in writing. - this resolution follows president barroso's letter to the eight member states with unemployment rates well above the eu average (22.4%), including portugal, and the deployment of action teams to develop youth employment plans in these member states. we are not opposed to the proposals to combat youth unemployment the european youth guarantee, the reallocation of part of the unspent budget of the 2007-2013 structural funds to youth programmes and aid to smes, the increase in co-financing for these eight member states, the implementation of the maternity leave directive . however, on the other hand, the resolution also advocates the deepening of the single market as a potential for job creation, the inclusion of youth unemployment in the european semester, coordination between national education and training plans and the needs of the labour market, investment in labour mobility: measures which are profoundly contrary to the creation of jobs with rights, which we reject outright. there is no job creation unless there is a decisive break with the so-called austerity policies which the majority of this parliament supports through the economic governance policies of the stability and growth pact, the budget treaty.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account the latest studies which show that women earn about 16.4% less than men in the same jobs. although we think that the evolution of history has taken care of equality, we are mistaken, the truth is that inequality has actually been increasing in some member states. i agree with the need for the european commission to strengthen existing legislation by introducing sanctions in order to effectively implement a process of equality between men and women and, once again, the european union must set an example for the rest of the world.
in writing. - the principle of equal pay for men and women, enshrined in the 1957 treaty of rome, is still not fully respected in the european union. the latest available data indicate that on average european women receive about 17% less than men. the causes of wage disparities are complex and multifaceted: direct and indirect discrimination, as well as social and economic factors, the devaluation of women's work, inequality in work-life balance, as well as traditions and stereotypes. i therefore voted in favour of this report which stresses the need for the european commission to review directive 2006/54/ec in order to improve the effectiveness of european legislation, by making the concepts related to equal pay clearer and more detailed, by raising awareness among employers, by improving the availability of accurate statistical data, and finally by introducing the classification of jobs in order to identify possible wage discrimination.
in writing. - as a strong supporter of the principle of equality, i could not question initiatives aimed at protecting women's rights in the workplace, such as this report which advocates the legitimate principle that equal work should have equal pay. in addition to equity requiring equal rights for men and women, the law must also take into account gender-specific needs, which in the case of women is evident in areas such as maternity protection and reconciling work and family life. that is why, in addition to the just demand for equal pay, it is essential that women are not systematically penalized in the workplace solely on the basis of their gender and the fact that they are mothers.
in writing. - the present report, by edit bauer, focuses on a set of recommendations to the commission on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women for work of equal value. the treaty of rome established the principle of equal pay for men and women. despite more than 40 years of legislation to this end, reality shows that much remains to be done. the wage gap is a reality which becomes more pronounced as people age, especially after the birth of their first child. this situation means that women at the end of their working lives receive pensions that are lower than those of men, thus increasing the risk of poverty among women. in an ageing europe with no measures to stimulate births, maternity and parental leave must not be taken to the detriment of women. the principle of equal pay for equal work must therefore be respected. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, and i hope that the member states, following the recommendations of the court of justice, will comply with and enforce the legislation in order to reduce this wage gap, which according to the oecd stands at 17.1%!
in writing. the report deals with a problem which is unfortunately recurrent, which is not dealt with quickly enough and which, on the contrary, is becoming more serious in many member states. it provides evidence of the gender pay gap in eu countries and proposes measures to tackle it, both in eu policies and in national programmes. we regret that several of the amendments we proposed to this report have not been accepted. they would substantially improve the document, which is thus incomplete in some areas. for example, this report acknowledges that individual hiring widenes wage disparities, but does not advocate collective hiring as the alternative. worse, it contains a paragraph proposing that we study how flexicurity can help to combat wage inequalities when it is well known that it deepens them. the report contains a number of proposals with which we agree: increases in women's wages, financial support for specific programmes to combat wage inequality, and so on. that's why we supported him.
in writing. - i consider that the application of the principle of equal pay for equal work and work of equal value is crucial to achieving gender equality, which is why i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european parliament has asked the commission to review directive 2006/54/ec by 15 february 2013 at the latest in line with the recommendations set out in the annex to this resolution, with regard to aspects of the gender pay gap such as: definitions, situation analysis and transparency of results, job evaluation and job classification, equality bodies and redress mechanisms, social dialogue, prevention of discrimination, gender mainstreaming, sanctions and simplification of eu regulation and policy. given that, despite the significant body of legislation in place for almost 40 years and the actions taken and resources spent to try to reduce the gender pay gap, progress has been extremely slow and in some member states the gaps have even widened, action by the european union is urgently needed. i voted for the document.
in writing. − this report contains a number of data demonstrating the existing gender pay gap in eu countries and proposals for measures to tackle it, both in eu policies and in national programmes. in this sense, and in view of the large wage gap in the eu 16.4% , it is clear that this report is relevant and necessary. we have proposed a number of amendments to the report, but several of them have not been accepted. the report has several shortcomings that have not been addressed acknowledges that individual recruitment widenes wage disparities, but does not advocate collective recruitment as the alternative; the commission is also proposing to study how flexicurity can help to combat wage inequalities, when no equality can be built by deepening precarious employment links. finally, it should be said that, despite the many reports on the subject, the so-called austerity policies supported by the majority of parliament are putting enormous pressure on wages to fall, which will only help to maintain and deepen wage inequalities.
in writing. - i approve of this report, agreeing with the position that the commission should indicate what actions have been taken with regard to the accompanying measures which have made it difficult for smes in the european union to provide services in switzerland and convince the swiss authorities to revoke the decision requiring foreign service providers to be required to demonstrate financial fitness. these obstacles to european companies by switzerland must be reviewed and corrected if not only the european union but also switzerland are to benefit mutually from the european union's internal market.
in writing. - the swiss decision is contrary to the convergence movement between switzerland and the european union and entails discrimination against nationals of member states in a way that does not appear to be appropriate or proportionate. it is for switzerland to clarify this situation fully and for the union to demand its elimination as soon as possible. the european parliament was right to speak out clearly against this measure. switzerland and the union have everything to gain by strengthening relations and coordinating policies and positions, and much to lose by opting for sterile differences.
in writing. - the restrictions imposed by switzerland on the entry of workers from eight eu member states (poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary) are not only highly questionable but also negative for eu-swiss relations. the agreement on the free movement of persons and goods is the cornerstone of the functioning of the european internal market and has been very beneficial for the swiss economy, helping the country to overcome the economic and financial crisis very quickly. with the measures taken, switzerland is in breach of european non-discrimination legislation and is preventing the family reunification of many european citizens. despite almost two years of negotiations, the results are very meagre, and the visit of the swiss president and the minister for foreign affairs to brussels has not accelerated the resolution of the problem, since the announced proposals have not yet been submitted. i voted in favour of this proposal because i do not agree with the discriminatory attitude of the swiss authorities and i urge the government to put an end to this behaviour which calls into question the concept of european citizenship as we approach the year 2013 declared the year of european citizenship.
in writing. - we cannot fail to follow the criticisms made in the report of the recent measures announced by switzerland. but we should point out that the report takes advantage of this denunciation to go on to defend the single market, showing that the concern is less about the democratic aspects and more about the deepening of the process of european integration.
in writing. − the resolution on swiss quotas on the number of residence permits to be granted to nationals of poland, lithuania, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary condemns the decision of the swiss authorities to establish quantitative limits on long-term residence permits to be granted to eu citizens from eight member states that joined the eu in 2004, limiting the free movement of persons as provided for in the 1999 eu agreement. since i consider that the decision is not based on a reasonable legal basis, i have voted in favour of the text of this resolution.
in writing. - the imposition of unilateral quotas on the number of residence permits imposed by switzerland on 18 april on eight eu member states is contrary to the principles of the schengen acquis, as it differentiates between citizens of different nationalities, particularly those from central and eastern europe. the free movement of persons is one of the main achievements of the european area and should not be jeopardised by purely political considerations. in parallel, the safeguard clause of the free movement agreement, article 10, which offers the possibility of unilaterally reintroducing quotas by 2014, should be for all 27 member states. the same clause, on the other hand, applies only to employed and selfemployed persons and can only be applied if, during a year, the number of residence permits granted exceeds the average of the last three years by at least 10%. for these reasons, the swiss authorities cannot claim the application of the safeguard clause, as the above criteria have not been fully met. i think it is important that switzerland should review its position and eliminate all discriminatory aspects of its migration policy.
in writing. − the reality of migration differs between the countries of the european union, and the decision on this policy must respect the sovereignty of each member state, which obviously does not prevent the necessary cooperation in this field at eu level. however, despite the defence of the sovereignty of each member state, we cannot help but follow the criticisms made in the report of the recent measures announced by switzerland. what we cannot but criticise, however, is that the report takes advantage of this denunciation to make the case for the single market, showing that the concern is less about democracy and more about deepening the conditions for the process of european integration.
a writer. mr president, first of all we want to raise a matter of principle. the fact that we are here today to discuss this subject is in itself unacceptable and unbelievable. unbelievable because the european parliament institution the institution has agreed to schedule a discussion that serves no more than to interfere, manipulate and influence the electoral process that will take place this year in venezuela, the presidential elections of october 2012. the fact that the european parliament has scheduled this meeting is an act of interference in the electoral process that is about to take place and means that this institution is being used to achieve very obvious political objectives: to influence public opinion towards the government of the bolivarian republic of venezuela at a time of pre-electoral campaign. this agenda does nothing to dignify the european parliament as an institution and is even very discredited. in relation to the issue that gives rise to this debate - or let's call it an act of electoral propaganda by the right - it is important to clarify some questions. today venezuela is a member of the commission and of the inter-american court of human rights. the decision whether or not to withdraw from these bodies is a matter for the sovereign and democratic institutions and authorities of venezuela alone, and it is not for this parliament to intervene in this matter. of the 34 countries that are members of the organization of american states, only 24 have, as has already been said, ratified the inter-american commission on human rights, and this has never been a matter of concern to this parliament. the united states and canada are not members of that committee and have never intended to be, but that has never troubled the right wing in this parliament either. the decision of venezuela to withdraw from this body is entirely up to its government and its people, and in any case it would be strange if venezuela did not question it. the fact is that when the criminal and undemocratic coup d'état of 11 april 2002 was perpetrated by the most reactionary forces against the will of the venezuelan people, the inter-american commission on human rights recognized the illegitimate government of carmona and the whole undemocratic situation that was created, trying to legitimize a coup d'état that tried to depose an elected president. to the great sadness of several governments in america and europe, democracy has been restored, with the broad support of the venezuelan people. that situation is still a thorn in the right's side, and this debate is proof of that. that is why they have been promoting so-called urgent debates on venezuela in this parliament, but all of them, coincidentally, always held in years when electoral processes were also taking place in venezuela. if those who support this unacceptable interference are really concerned about human rights, they will know that the bolivarian republic of venezuela is actively participating in the united nations human rights council and that it is actively engaged in building human rights bodies within the framework of onasur and celac. if those who support this unacceptable interference are genuinely concerned about human rights, why do they not propose a debate on the social progress made in venezuela, particularly in the area of social rights? why don't they talk about the decline in poverty and extreme poverty, which in just 10 years has gone down from 17.1 percent to 7.9 percent? why do they not hear the praise of the fao and un officials for the enormous progress made in the area of food rights and the millennium development goals? this debate could be useful in helping us to understand that there are different paths to follow from those advocated by the majority and governments of the european union, where social, economic and labour rights - and therefore human rights - are increasingly under attack and are being called into question, and where poverty is increasing alarmingly.
mr president, president chavez is unquestionably a leader with popular support thanks to the social advances that his presidency has been able to bring to the overwhelming majority of the venezuelan population. that said, he is also a demagogic and populist leader, which i personally do not like. and there are human rights violations in venezuela. perhaps not as severe as in other countries, but they do exist. i have great respect for the inter-american commission on human rights and the inter-american court of human rights. but i do not think that this resolution is justified, because the decision to leave the eu eventually is a sovereign decision, which is to be criticised, but for that it must be implemented and it has not yet been implemented and i hope it will not be implemented.
mr president, it is regrettable that president barroso has gone to baku and remained silent on the human rights situation in azerbaijan, which has progressively deteriorated despite promises of reform and commitments to the eu. these human rights violations, threats, attacks, arrests of journalists, violent repression of peaceful demonstrations, arbitrary expropriations, are taking place right now under the spotlight of the eurovision festival. the european union, in negotiating the association agreement with azerbaijan, should include clauses and concrete objectives with a view to democratic reforms to be achieved during the term of the agreement, in particular with regard to freedom of the press, expression and demonstration. the agreement should include an effective mechanism for monitoring reforms, including sanctions for non-compliance.
mr president, the repatriation of refugees is contrary to international law and is an unacceptable practice on the part of a great power like china, which has special responsibilities as a permanent member of the un security council in respecting and enforcing international law. chinese authorities are aware of this, so much so that they have already promised not to continue to repatriate north koreans seeking refuge in their country. but it is widely documented that repatriation continues on the sino-korean border and that this means handing over men, women, old people and children to torture, starvation, imprisonment and death in north korean concentration camps. the european union, which is committed to a multi-faceted relationship with china, cannot renounce its principles, values and enduring interests and must honestly and frankly tell china that it expects china to respect its obligations under the geneva convention. he hopes it will stop the handing over of refugees to north korea. the high representative and the commission, in addition to continuing to support organisations that support north korean refugees, should include this issue in all political dialogues with china.
parliament is called upon to debate and vote on this commission legislative initiative, on the basis of an agreement already reached with the council and the commission. as president of inta, i would have preferred the opposite, that is to say, to negotiate with the other institutions only after the debate and the vote in plenary. but in any case, the agreement which parliament is debating today and which will be voted on next wednesday is a balanced and positive agreement. in line with the commission's objectives, it improves some less positive aspects such as the special safeguard clause for textiles. it happens with all commitments like this, they're never 100% satisfactory for everyone. in my case, i still object to the extension of the gsp plus access criterion, which will allow large economies such as pakistan and the philippines, which are very competitive in some sectors, to have access to this very advantageous scheme at the expense of the poorer economies and also at the expense of the most vulnerable countries in the european union itself. finally, let me congratulate our rapporteur, christofer fjellner, as president of inta, on the excellent work he has done, the danish presidency, through ambassador kelstrup, and the european commission, represented by peter thomson, on their negotiating skills in securing this compromise which is in the interests of the european union's objectives in this area.
the profound change to the system of generalized tariff preferences now proposed must be seen in the context of the fundamentalist defence of free trade which guides the european union's trade policy. the new criteria reduce the gsp beneficiary countries to less than half, excluding from the system countries whose development indices are not yet fully in line with recent developments in their gdp per capita. in many cases, the withdrawal of benefits is accompanied by unacceptable pressure and blackmail to force acceptance of free trade agreements, which we strongly reject. at the same time, the benefits granted to other countries are being extended in a way that is likely to have negative impacts in countries such as portugal, with a significant weight in sensitive sectors such as textiles and clothing. a final note to deplore the way in which the whole process of discussing this dossier has unfolded. i regret that, even before the debate and vote here in the house, everything is agreed and coordinated beforehand between the major political groups, the commission and the council. do i have to ask, what are we doing here?
the almost daily attacks on the principle of multilingualism by the european institutions are unacceptable. the examples are numerous, starting with the conditions under which parliamentary work itself takes place and including the information and opportunities for participation granted to citizens of the different member states in different processes. the situation has worsened considerably with the budget cuts in the areas of translation and we welcome with concern both the words which the commissioner has brought to us here today and the proposals under discussion for future and more drastic cuts. this is all the more serious when the right of citizens to participate is restricted, multilingualism is undermined, the sovereignty of the member states is infringed, the representative structures closest to the citizens are emptied of power and the union's areas of competence and intervention are enlarged. it is undoubtedly democracy itself that is at stake.
madam president, we have had another request this weekend to save private banking. they keep making the same argument, which is to avoid contagion from the euro zone, and what i ask is whether we have learned nothing, greece, portugal, ireland and now spain and yet the contagion continues. what kind of containment system is this that's destroying us? this policy does not work, we should have known this already, it is the same governments that say that there is no money for culture, education, health, public goods that, when the banks ask for it or the markets, make it appear immediately, almost by miracle. this economic policy is not a cure, it is a deadly poison for growth, for employment, for the european economy, for social europe. markets dictate and governments obey and blackmail the poor and that's what governments are doing to greece right now, in an election period. i sincerely hope, for the sake of all of us, that the greek people will not allow themselves to be blackmailed on sunday and will teach us a lesson because this recipe, madam president, is a recipe for disaster.
madam president, it is in latin america that some of the most interesting and exciting processes of social transformation are taking place in the world today. breaking with the neoliberalism that has reigned for decades in the region, with the structural adjustment receipts of the imf and its dramatic consequences, steps are being taken in several countries towards progress and social justice. the economic growth rates are reasonable, even in the face of the world crisis, social inequalities are decreasing, progress is being made in the field of social rights, a reverse of what is happening here, but there are still, of course, deficiencies and factors of backwardness that cannot be ignored. this situation poses new demands and challenges in the field of development cooperation. as several countries have been pointing out, it is time for a reorientation of the european union's cooperation policies, moving from a more existentialist vision of some paternalism and, sometimes, interference, imposition of political and economic models, to greater support and cooperation in areas such as education, science and technology, respecting the legitimate choices and sovereignty of the peoples.
in writing. volunteering directly contributes to key eu policy objectives such as social inclusion, employment, education, capacity building, citizenship, social justice and solidarity. in order to achieve this recognition, it is necessary to encourage the european commission to continue to support volunteering activities through its programmes and through cohesion programmes, and to recognise that the non-formal learning that volunteering enables must be valued at national and european level. as such, the creation of national strategies and a clear legal framework at european union level is necessary. i remember that in 2011 we celebrated the european year of volunteering, an initiative that allowed us to understand more deeply all the added value of these activities. at that time, it was reported that europe already had more than 100 million volunteers, with decisive impacts on social cohesion and the economy. the set of actions of social and community interest, whether on their own initiative or in the framework of projects or programmes carried out by volunteers, must therefore be properly framed and valued, also in the context of the cross-border mobility that the eu promotes.
mr president, the fortification of critical infrastructure information systems against cyberattacks and other types of cybercrime is certainly a very important issue. information systems containing sensitive data must be protected from those who want to sow terror and wreak havoc, but they must also be protected from careless states, which have been increasingly developing certain types of cyberattacks, sometimes for opportunistic reasons, and which, by sowing winds now, may reap storms in the future. this is an area where all care is lacking and the precautionary principle applies. we must never forget that the protection of personal privacy is equally important, we can never sacrifice the privacy of our citizens when we make efforts to strengthen cyber security and we cannot allow our fundamental rights to be overlooked and forgotten, that is, we cannot give the european union, the commission, powers that may be disproportionate at this point. some recent experiences, such as those of the pnr, invite us to be cautious in this area, it is not only cybercriminals who can cause serious problems, institutions and states, if they are not cautious, can sometimes cause even worse problems.
we recognize, mr president, the importance of ensuring that people have the necessary security and protection when using the internet and the infrastructure that supports it. however, we strongly disagree that this statement is part of a set of strategies and policies of a security nature and deeply damaging in terms of employment and freedom of expression for these same populations. these measures are clearly closely linked to the work of the european external action service, which is seeking to include internet security issues in its external relations on a permanent basis, particularly when it awards its various funding instruments, aligning policy guidance and legislative action with its us counterparts. coordinated positions are being taken in international forums involving nato, the un, the world bank, and others. cybersecurity cannot be used to legitimise interventionist and interference purposes that have nothing to do with the freedom of citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate mrs herczog on her excellent work and the constructive collaboration she has established with the shadow rapporteurs, particularly with the ppe. i fully support the priorities for external energy policy expressed in the report. these are strengthening the external dimension of the internal energy market, strengthening partnerships for secure, sustainable and competitive energy, improving access to sustainable energy for developing countries and promoting eu policies beyond its borders. it is also with joy that i see the strengthening of the balance between the various external borders, east, south, west and on their atlantic and south atlantic sides.
europe's external dependence on energy supply will continue to grow over the next few years, despite the progressive integration of renewable energy sources and expected gains in energy efficiency. a fragmented approach to external energy policy only makes each member state more vulnerable to an uncertain geopolitical context, weakening europe. it is necessary to accelerate cooperation with third countries in the development of new technologies. the liquefied gas market, for example, may be radically altered by the expansion of the panama canal and by north american shale gas production, diversifying supply partners to europe.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the danish presidency started well with a pragmatic approach by minister bødskov, but it ended badly because of the council's intransigence. the council shows that it does not trust this parliament, but above all it gives a very bad sign of a pre-lisbon mentality. i accuse the council of not wanting to strengthen freedom of movement, i accuse the council of being obsessed with multiplying, extending and increasing the reintroduction of internal border controls. i accuse the council of not wanting a real assessment of schengen, which identifies the problems, helps to solve them and strengthens the security of our citizens. i accuse the council of wanting to maintain the existing system in which, as cecilia malmström has said, member states hide and ignore each other's mistakes and shortcomings. i accuse the council of rejecting a european mechanism and of retreating to an outdated and outdated intergovernmental model. mr president, in conclusion, i accuse the council of a dangerous vertigo which has been underlined by several speakers throughout this debate: the european union is not a party to the schengen agreement.
the six-pack was officially published in the official journal on 23 november 2011, the same day the commission published the two-pack. the two pack is another initiative to strengthen budgetary discipline in the euro area member states. now, after the six pack, the budgetary pact, conditions are being created for increased surveillance of countries even before they ask for aid, the budgetary targets they have to meet are being strengthened, the timetables for the budgetary process are being coordinated. budgetary discipline has been the alpha and omega of the commission's legislative initiative and work, workers and wages the adjustment variable. the basic fact is ignored that if all economies, including those with surpluses, are forced into austerity in a single market, the market will eventually and inexorably contract. all countries try to export to markets that meanwhile close, competing on the basis of crushing wages, the only variable chosen to do so. local demand disappears and unemployment spreads. the growing unemployment and the loss of tax revenue make it impossible to achieve the desired rebalancing of public finances, and the debt of the states is entirely at the mercy of financial operators. the two pack legislative initiative is being developed in this context, precisely when the fourth european economy has just shown its fragility, the representatives of the citizens cannot continue to co-legislate on initiatives that only target this aspect of discipline and austerity, it must be compensated, it must be rebalanced. it is therefore essential that the improvements introduced in the legislative text are now strongly endorsed and strongly supported, they ensure a balance between the short-term objectives and the medium-term needs for correcting imbalances. there is a greater respect for national democracy in the construction of the national budget and the recognition of the need for coordination between member countries, but also an additional respect for social concertation practices at national level. but it is also essential that the commission produces, in the very short term, the road map for the only possible breakthrough in sustaining sovereign debt, which is to manage the debt burden above 60% jointly through a medium- and long-term fund, some coordination in the short-term management of such debt issues and a road map leading to the actual and definitive creation of eurobonds. it is also essential to overcome the bottleneck in domestic demand and the lack of european countercyclical instruments, and an instrument of 1% of gdp for 10 years is therefore proposed to fill this gap precisely. thirdly, it is essential that strategic investment that enables countries to overcome their structural weaknesses is protected when assessing deficit and debt levels and imposing the rules that lead to budgetary rebalancing. we have been working, as is the task of our econ committee and this house, working hard to seek consensus and that consensus requires sacrifices and compromises, both within each political group and between the different political groups, but we are confident that tomorrow's vote will strongly strengthen the position of this parliament which represents the citizens and which will enable it to take a constructive position in overcoming the crisis we are experiencing.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately the proposals we are discussing here today confirm the prohibition of anti-crisis policies in the euro area and also give concrete expression to the logic of the budgetary treaty. there are some statements of intent but they are very timid, i am referring, for example, to the road map for one day if we can start thinking about ways of defining possible legislation for the hypothetical introduction of eurobonds. the problem is that that day is only when all these problems of the euro zone are solved and it is long, and it is very long, to come. we support some aspects of this proposal, but at this rate it will all be too little too late. putting a country under legal protection means maintaining rates and amounts and giving priority to new loans, i.e. requiring member states to honour their debt but withdrawing from them all the instruments that would enable them to grow and find the resources to do so. let's be honest with each other: the only legal protection that exists in these proposals and that is provided for is for the creditors, but neither will that be resolved, because it is not effective for them either. as we have seen in greece, ireland, portugal and now spain, this means condemning countries to recession, unemployment and insolvency, and i conclude, mr president, by saying that the worsening of these situations and their spread to other economies is bringing us closer to a point of no return. in the face of the failure of complete austerity, the european commission or the german government propose the same policy but in an overdose regime, it is the neoliberal fanaticism that is killing the euro.
mr president, i would first like to point out that the european parliament has been discussing this two-pack for about six months. we are now entering a phase of trilogues, and i would ask that the work be expedited. i know that the most committed members of the european people's party have tried this in succession, but the answers are urgent for the challenges we face today. i would also like to congratulate the rapporteurs, jean-paul gauzès and elisa ferreira, on the work they have done in this two-pack which, together with the six-pack, could form an eight-pack of solutions that the european parliament has helped to create for this crisis, a solution which is based on the following premise: there can be only sustainable growth with disciplined public finances, this is the starting point, the starting point for the challenges we have for the future, the challenge of growth, growth naturally needs political stability, social stability and european solutions. some are very urgent, some are still facing difficulties, to have a system of eurobonds we have to amend the treaties, to have a rescue fund we have to have the will of the states, because they have to appear as soon as possible. once again, everything is a matter of time and a european solution. we have just been advocating a european solution for schengen, and we must also advocate a european solution on this matter and support the great efforts made by the european commission in this direction.
mr president, first of all it should be said that this initiative suffers from a serious legal problem, it is assumed that it is trying to incorporate the content of the budgetary treaty into secondary law of the european union. the small problem we have is that the budgetary treaty has not even been ratified and is not even enshrined in the fundamental law of the european union because it is an intergovernmental treaty. it is clear that the objectives of the european commission, supported by the majority of this parliament, are being imposed on the people in every way, even though they lack legal legitimacy. is this the european citizenship you say you want to promote? secondly, it should be stressed that, however much one may try to decorate the text with words about growth and employment, the measures to strengthen economic and budgetary surveillance are nothing more than the deepening of the stability and growth pact and the perpetual institutionalisation of the so-called austerity measures, the limitation of the budgetary and economic sovereignty of the countries. those here called macroeconomic adjustment programmes will not distance themselves from the so-called austerity measures, i.e. they will implement the revenue cut in public social services, social security systems, reduction of unit labour costs through reduction of wages and workers' rights.
the rapporteur. - mr president, given the extremely limited time we have, i would just like to say to the commission that it can count, as it has always done, on this parliament working effectively for the strength of the euro area and europe, but that this can only be achieved when, in addition to initiatives focusing on discipline, we are able to add the conditions for a balanced sharing of gains and sacrifices between the different member states and between the different citizens, and a hope, a hope that we will emerge from the crisis we are going through. for that hope to exist, other initiatives are needed and these are what this parliament is trying to fulfil, an initiative aimed at investment, growth and the control of sovereign debt which has been the obvious achilles heel, reflecting the fragility of the economic systems of some of the member countries. we can count on you, mr commissioner, we can count on you, council, we can count on you, madam president, but the agenda must be a comprehensive agenda, it cannot be an agenda which makes discipline the condition for everything else to follow, nor which makes discipline the alpha and omega of our european proposals. our citizens expect this from us, they can count on parliament, and i want to thank once again the rapporteurs, mr gauzés, who is another rapporteur, and all the rapporteurs who, as shadow rapporteurs or merely active elements in the construction of this project, have been able to contribute to a more balanced, more solid parliament project, which i hope will deserve the respect, the capacity for dialogue and the spirit of construction and commitment that has been so far.
in writing. - i vote in favour, since the application fulfils all the conditions for eligibility. as such, spain is entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation. i note that the footwear sector accounted for 26% of total employment in the comunidad valenciana region, thus contributing enormously to the local economic fabric, which is mainly made up of small and medium-sized enterprises in traditional sectors such as textiles, footwear and ceramics.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 1 631 565 from the egf for spain to support the 876 workers made redundant by 146 leather and leather products companies in the region of the valencian community.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree to the mobilisation of the egf in the present situation, since the conditions laid down in article 2 (b) of the egf regulation are fulfilled and spain is therefore entitled to a financial contribution under that regulation.
in writing. − while regretting the events that have given rise to this request for support in the region of the valencian community in spain, i stress the importance of the union having the appropriate legal and budgetary instruments to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market, including support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the second application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1.6 million from the egf for spain (876 cases of redundancies in the region of the valencian community), which i hope will be mobilised quickly. i am pleased that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the measures are implemented in a timely manner and that the commission is able to take action in the short term.
in writing. - a region as dependent on the footwear industry as the valencian community is cannot but feel the effects of international competition which, at low cost and low final price, floods the european market. other regions feel the same competitive pressure and unfortunately suffer from the scourge of unemployment. in the valencian case, 146 fired 876 employees. since the european globalisation adjustment fund is intended to mitigate the negative impacts of this phenomenon, i agree that it should be mobilised to help workers in the valencian footwear industry to cope better with this difficult period in their lives and, if necessary, to help them to return to the labour market.
in writing. - this report deals with the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and falls within point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. the egf was set up in 2006 to support workers who have been made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns brought about by globalisation. on 28 december 2011, spain submitted an application to the egf egf/2011/020 es/comunidad valenciana footwear, spain following the redundancies of 876 workers in the leather and leather products industry (nace revision 2 division) in 146 enterprises in the region of the valencian community (es52) at nuts ii level, which was approved by the commission on 4 may 2012. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'.
in writing. - for the second time this year, the european parliament approves the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant in the valencian community in spain. this time the application concerns 876 cases of redundancies in 146 companies in the leather and leather products industry. the call for funds was for eur 1 631 565. this case is part of the dozens of mobilizations called for in december 2011, before the end of the crisis derogation. once again, we cannot but regret the council's decision not to extend beyond december 2011 the crisis derogation, which increased the eu co-financing rate to 65%. this means that the countries with the greatest economic and social difficulties, those with the highest number of business closures and the highest unemployment, are the ones that will be least able to use this fund. we continue to advocate an increase in egf co-financing, especially for countries with weak financial conditions, such as portugal, in order to ensure that the national share does not exceed 5% of the overall financing provided. but at the same time and above all, we will continue to advocate a reversal of the policies which have led to the existence and require the mobilisation of this fund.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be granted to spain which has submitted requests for assistance in relation to 876 cases of redundancies of workers, all potential beneficiaries of the intervention, in 146 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 15 (leather and leather products industry) in comunidad valenciana, nuts ii (es52) region in spain.
in writing. − in the framework of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 4 may 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. this is the second application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 1 631 565 from the egf in favour of 876 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries of the intervention, in 146 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 15 (leather and leather products) in the nuts ii region comunidad valenciana (es52) during the nine-month reference period from 25 january 2011 to 25 october 2011. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − since its creation in 2006, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has played an important role in helping workers affected by structural changes in world trade patterns or the effects of the current global economic and financial crisis. since this application fulfils all the requirements, in particular that there is a causal link between the redundancies and the structural changes in world trade, it is urgent to take measures quickly to circumvent the present situation in the valencian community. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i consider that the measures proposed are appropriate and effective in order to ensure that workers are quickly reintegrated into the labour market.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. spain submitted an application to mobilise the egf in favour of 876 workers made redundant in 146 leather and leather products undertakings in the community of valencia. i agree with the mobilisation of € 1 631 565 to support the reintegration of workers into the labour market, in particular vocational training measures aimed at creating high value-added jobs in the footwear sector, thus avoiding the off-shoring of knowledge acquired in this industrial sector. it should also be noted that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of spanish companies, as it is a complementary support granted by the european union to alleviate the social difficulties that workers will face.
in writing. the european parliament has voted to approve the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the second time this year, with the stated aim of supporting the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis in the valencian community, spain. this time the application concerns 876 cases of redundancies in 146 companies in the leather and leather products industry. the call for funds for this purpose was for eur 1 631 565. this spanish case is part of the dozens of mobilizations requested in december 2011, before the end of the crisis derogation. the commission is also proposing to extend the derogation to cover the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2010 for the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2010 for the period from 1 january 2007 to 31 december 2011. this means that the countries with the greatest economic and social difficulties, those with the highest number of business closures and the highest unemployment, are the ones that will be least able to use this fund. we continue to advocate an increase in egf co-financing, especially for countries with weak financial conditions, such as portugal, in order to ensure that the national share does not exceed 5% of the overall financing provided.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it essential that the european union gives an effective and essential response to disasters such as this. it is at this moment, when the peoples of europe are experiencing the greatest difficulties due to factors beyond their control, that the european union must speak with one voice and give substance to the solidarity between the peoples of europe, which is clearly evident in all the treaties which make up the european union.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 2/2012 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) in the amount of eur 18 061 682 to mitigate the effects of the floods in italy (liguria and tuscany) in october 2011. the purpose of the draft amending budget is to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2012 budget. the rapid release of financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund is of the utmost importance for parties affected by natural disasters, and it is regrettable that the council has waited eight weeks to inform national parliaments, which is why this amending budget cannot be adopted before the june plenary session. this report, which i supported, endorses the council position on draft amending budget no 2/2012 and calls on stakeholders in the member states, at local and regional level, and national authorities to improve the needs assessment and coordination of possible future applications to the eusf, with the aim of speeding up, as far as possible, the mobilisation of the fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i consider it important to speed up the release of financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to parties affected by natural disasters.
in writing. - in addition to unity in diversity, in europe we must cultivate unity in adversity, solidarity and cohesion when they are most needed. the floods in italy in october 2011 are a sad reminder of the need to be closer together and more attentive to the needs and problems of our partners. the need to provide aid to the disaster areas led to the drawing up of a draft amending budget which already provided for aid to be provided to them. i am in favour of european support for those who have lost so much and of changes to the appropriate financial instruments so that this aid can be put into european accounts. i deeply regret the devastation that has struck italy and i hope that european solidarity will continue to be shown whenever it is called for. and do it with commitment and efficiency.
in writing. − in october 2011, the italian regions of liguria and tuscany were devastated by a natural disaster that caused major flooding and caused the loss of several lives and property damage of more than eur 722 billion. the report under examination, drawn up by ms francesca balzani, concerns draft amending budget no 2/2012 of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2012, section iii commission, to allow the mobilisation of the amount of eur 18 061.682 from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in commitment and payment appropriations following the aforementioned floods in italy. although the commission initially considered that there were no funds to allow the appropriations for the required payments to be reallocated, it subsequently suggested that the amounts resulting from the under-implementation of the european economic recovery plan (eerp) be mobilised, which was agreed by the council. although i agree with the rapporteur that this method should be considered as a one-off solution, given its urgency, i voted in favour of this draft amending budget.
in writing. − the amending budget approved in this report relates to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to mitigate the effects of the floods in italy in october 2011. the amount of commitments and payments was set at some eur 18 million. the need for this amending budget is to enter this adjustment under the heading of the fund for the 2012 budget. the report stresses the importance of rapidly releasing financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund to parties affected by natural disasters and strongly regrets that the other arm of the budgetary authority has waited eight weeks to take a position. unfortunately, these situations have been recurring. we voted in favour of agreeing that regions affected by disasters of this and other kinds can readily count on support from the union solidarity fund. the floods in october 2011 in liguria and tuscany caused severe damage to homes, businesses and the agricultural sector, as well as to transport links and essential public infrastructure networks. it is therefore important that financial means for reconstruction and damage coverage are made available as much as possible to support these populations.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to approve the amending budget to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to mitigate the effects of the floods in italy in october 2011. the amount of appropriations for commitments and payments was set at some eur 18 million. the adoption of this report makes it possible to enter this adjustment under the heading of the fund for the 2012 budget. i agree with the rapporteur when he says that it is 'important to release rapidly financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund to the parties affected by natural disasters'.
in writing. − the draft amending budget for 2012 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) in the amount of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations in respect of the floods in italy (liguria and tuscany) which occurred in october 2011. the support for this mobilization being unanimous, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 2/2012 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) in the amount of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations to mitigate the effects of the floods in liguria and tuscany in october 2011. the rapid release of financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund is of the utmost importance for the parties affected by natural disasters, and it regrets that the council has waited eight weeks to adopt its position. in order to accelerate the mobilisation of the eusf, all stakeholders in the member states, at local and regional level, are further encouraged to improve the needs assessment and coordination of possible future applications. i voted in favour.
in writing. − considering that it is very important to swiftly release financial assistance through the european union solidarity fund to the parties affected by natural disasters, amounting to eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations, to mitigate the effects of the floods in italy, in the regions of liguria and tuscany, in october 2011, i voted in favour of amending budget no 2/2012 which provides for this appropriation.
in writing. − the amending budget approved in this report relates to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to mitigate the effects of the floods in italy in october 2011. the amount of commitments and payments was set at some eur 18 million. the need for this amending budget is to enter this adjustment in the heading of the fund for the 2012 budget. we voted in favour of agreeing that regions affected by disasters of this and other kinds can readily count on support from the union solidarity fund. the floods in october 2011 in liguria and tuscany caused severe damage to homes, businesses and the agricultural sector, as well as to transport links and essential public infrastructure networks. it is important that the financial means for reconstruction and damage coverage are made available as soon as possible to support these populations.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it essential that the european union should provide an effective and essential response to disasters such as this. it is at this moment, when the peoples of europe are experiencing the greatest difficulties due to factors beyond their control, that the european union must speak with one voice and give substance to the solidarity between the peoples of europe, which is clearly evident in all the treaties which make up the european union.
in writing. the european union has set up the european union solidarity fund to show solidarity with the people of regions affected by disasters. the solidarity fund is mainly used in cases of major natural disasters with serious repercussions on the living conditions of citizens, the natural environment or the economy of one or more regions of a member state or of a country applying for accession to the european union (eu). in exceptional circumstances, the eusf may also be mobilised for disasters considered to be 'regional' when a region is struck by a disaster causing damage affecting the majority of its population and having a serious and lasting impact on its living conditions and economic stability. italy submitted the request to mobilise the fund, in response to the floods in liguria and tuscany, which caused serious damage to homes and agricultural businesses, as well as disruption to important transport links and essential public infrastructure networks. the application complies with the eligibility criteria of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, and i therefore voted in favour of mobilising eur 18 061 682 in favour of italy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of agreeing to the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to address the situation at hand.
in writing. - there has been a dramatic increase in the number and severity of natural disasters worldwide, such as forest fires, floods and landslides, earthquakes, etc. unfortunately, the eu and its member states are not immune to such disasters either, and given the increasing rate of climate change and the increased likelihood of more frequent and more intense natural disasters, maximum solidarity is needed, particularly in the area of assistance operations, as well as the rapid mobilisation of the instruments at the eu's disposal. the eu financial solidarity fund allows for assistance to the people of regions affected by disasters up to a maximum annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. following the floods which affected the regions of liguria and tuscany in october last year, a request for assistance was submitted by italy. the damage caused by this natural disaster amounted to some eur 722,5 million and affected housing, businesses, farms, transport and communications networks and public infrastructure. since there is no doubt as to the eligibility of this application, i support the decision to mobilise the amount of eur 18 061 682 from the solidarity fund.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund (eusf) was set up in the wake of the devastating floods that hit central europe in the summer of 2002 as a vehicle for expressing european solidarity with the population of eu regions affected by major natural disasters. it has been triggered 48 times and has awarded some €2.5 billion in aid. the torrential rains and floods which hit northern italy last october, causing serious damage to the coastal regions of liguria and tuscany, have left us perplexed and apprehensive, because of their extreme violence and strong destructive power. as a union of states and using the instruments at our disposal to help people affected by natural disasters, it seems to me self-evident to mobilise the eusf to alleviate the suffering of the people affected. a word of appreciation and acknowledgement to my fellow rapporteur josé manuel fernandes for the excellent and rapid work done in the preparation of this report.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund is the most appropriate mechanism to seek to assist member states and their regions affected by disasters of major proportions. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the following undertakings: the company astra, which is the main beneficiary of the aid, and the company astra, which is the main beneficiary of the aid. unfortunately, natural disasters have been multiplying in europe. this should make us reflect on how we have been managing natural resources and how we have been taking care that the technique and technology we have today are designed to do without a good understanding of the environment in which we are placed. i hope that the italian regions so badly affected by the floods can make the best use of the funds made available to them.
in writing. − in october 2011, the italian regions of liguria and tuscany were devastated by a natural disaster that caused major flooding and caused the loss of several lives and property damage of more than eur 722 billion. this report concerns a proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the mobilisation of the amount of eur 18 061 682 from the european union solidarity fund (eusf) in commitment and payment appropriations following the aforementioned floods in italy. this proposal is in accordance with point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 and is accompanied by draft amending budget (dab) no 2/2012 in order to allow the necessary commitment and payment appropriations to be entered in the 2012 budget. to this end, the commission proposed the mobilisation of the eusf as the sole object of the edf 02/2012, in accordance with the joint statement of the european parliament and of the council of 17 july 2008. as rapporteur, i welcome the adoption of this report by a large majority and i hope for a speedy recovery of the areas affected by the floods of october 2011.
in writing. - we supported this report. the decision of the european parliament and of the council to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for the people of liguria and tuscany, regions affected by the catastrophic floods of october 2011, which caused serious damage to homes, businesses and the agricultural sector, as well as to transport links and essential public infrastructure networks, is fully justified and fully in line with the objectives of the fund. the direct damage from the floods was estimated at eur 722,5 million and the eligibility criteria for mobilising the fund were verified. the commission, in its request for assistance, provided for aid based on 2.5% of the estimated value, eur 18 061 682. it is therefore proposed that this amount should be entered in the budget line created for the purpose of mobilising the fund. once again, we cannot fail to draw attention to the excessive time that elapses between the occurrence of the disaster, the decision to mobilise the eusf and the actual arrival of community support to the member states and regions affected. for this reason, we have been advocating the need to adapt the rules for mobilising this fund, allowing for a more flexible and timely mobilisation.
in writing. − following the floods in liguria and tuscany in october 2011, which caused severe damage to homes, businesses and the agricultural sector, as well as disruptions to transport links and essential public infrastructure networks, italy requested assistance from the solidarity fund. the total direct damage caused by the floods, estimated by the italian authorities, amounts to eur 722,5 million. this accident has been classified as a natural disaster and as such falls within the scope of the solidarity fund. after verifying that the application in question meets the eligibility criteria of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to a total amount of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations. so i voted in favour.
in writing. − italy requested assistance from the european solidarity fund following the floods in the liguria and tuscany regions in october 2011, which caused severe damage to homes, businesses and the agricultural sector, as well as disruption to important transport links and essential public infrastructure networks. after verifying that the application in question meets the eligibility criteria of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to a total amount of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations. following the recommendation of the rapporteur to approve the commission proposal for a decision annexed to this report, i voted in favour.
in writing. the european union has set up the european union solidarity fund to support people in regions affected by disasters. italy submitted the request to mobilise the fund, in response to the floods in liguria and tuscany, which caused serious damage to homes and agricultural businesses, as well as disruption to important transport links and essential public infrastructure networks. since the nomination meets all the eligibility requirements, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the commission has proposed to mobilise the european solidarity fund for italy following the floods in the liguria and tuscany regions in october 2011, which caused severe damage to homes, businesses and the agricultural sector, as well as disruption to important transport links and essential public infrastructure networks. the eu solidarity fund will be mobilised for a total amount of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations, the committee on regional development, to which i belong, having given its constructive support and contribution to the implementation of the eu solidarity fund. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − we have agreed to the decision of the european parliament and the council to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for the people of liguria and tuscany, regions affected by the catastrophic floods of october 2011, which caused serious damage to homes, businesses and the agricultural sector, as well as to transport links and essential public infrastructure networks. the direct damage from the floods was estimated at eur 722,5 million and, having verified the eligibility criteria for mobilising the fund, the commission, in its request for assistance, provided for aid based on 2,5% of the estimated value, eur 18 061 682. it is therefore proposed that this amount should be entered in the budget line created for the purpose of mobilising the fund.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 also provides that 0,35% of the maximum amount of the egf may be made available each year for technical assistance at the initiative of the commission. i have therefore supported the present report concerning the commission's request for the mobilisation of eur 730 000 from the fund to cover its administrative follow-up needs in relation to the collection of data on applications received and funded, information on the updating and extension of the egf website, the creation of a knowledge base with a view to the definition of a standardised system for egf applications, technical and administrative assistance and evaluation of the egf.
in writing. − as the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) is intended to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns, to help them reintegrate into the labour market, i voted in favour of this report which proposes the mobilisation of the egf at the amount indicated, on the initiative of the commission.
in writing. - i agree with the proposed amount of technical assistance to the european globalisation adjustment fund of eur 730 000 (although the amount requested by the commission was higher than this amount of eur 1.12 million), and therefore i voted in favour of this report. as the report stresses, there is a margin of savings which the commission should use to keep expenditure within the amount now approved. i would also stress the importance of knowing the impact and efficiency of the dissemination instruments financed under technical assistance in previous years and of providing reliable data on the use of these instruments. i also hope that the negotiations for the new egf regulation 2014-2020 will start soon and that they will lead to a strengthening of the eu in terms of its intervention in this area.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund has been used to great effect in recent years, as a result of the economic and financial crisis that has hit the european union, aggravated by globalisation of trade, the ageing of the population, the obsolescence of some industries, and many other factors. in the course of its existence and mobilisation, imperfections were identified and the need to streamline its procedures so that it could have an effective positive impact on the lives of the unemployed workers it seeks to reach. technical assistance to the fund is therefore essential. the union should, where possible, maintain the same type of financial allocation for such assistance, so as not to allow a backlog in the way it is implemented, disseminated, monitored and evaluated.
in writing. − the european union (eu), recognising the very serious social consequences of the current economic and financial crisis, has set up the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support to workers affected by structural changes in world trade. this report deals with the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (egf/2012/000 ta 2012 technical assistance at the initiative of the commission), the first egf application of 2012. on 4 april 2012, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of eur 1 120 000 from the egf to cover the expenditure on technical assistance from the commission (monitoring, information, creation of a knowledge base, technical and administrative assistance and evaluation). in view of the opinion of the empl committee and since it is within the annual allocation for technical assistance expenditure of the commission, which is eur 1.75 million, i voted in favour.
in writing. - we supported this report. the commission proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 1.12 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to cover technical assistance expenditure by the commission. a maximum amount of eur 1,75 million may be used annually to cover the needs of the implementation of the egf, involving the following activities: monitoring, information, creation of a knowledge base, technical and administrative assistance and evaluation. we welcome the fact that the committee on budgets has approved the amendments tabled by the egf working party of the committee on employment and social affairs. these amendments called for greater simplification and faster processing of applications, an assessment of the efficiency of the dissemination tools financed under technical assistance and the need for an assessment, before the adoption of the new egf regulation for the period 2014-2020, on the effectiveness of the crisis derogation application criterion.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to provide additional support to workers affected by the effects of major structural changes in world trade patterns. the proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 1.12 million from the fund to cover technical assistance expenditure by the commission. in accordance with article 8 (1) of the legal basis, 0,35% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be made available each year, on the initiative of the commission, for technical assistance expenditure. a maximum of eur 1,75 million may be used annually to cover the needs of the implementation of the fund. this appropriation is intended to finance the monitoring, information, administrative and technical support activities, as well as the control, audit and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation, and is very important for assessing the good use of the egf and its effectiveness.
in writing. − in the framework of the european globalisation adjustment fund, on 4 april 2012 the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf to mobilise eur 1.12 million from the fund to cover technical assistance expenditure of the commission. in accordance with article 8 (1) of the legal basis, 0,35% of the annual ceiling of the egf may be made available each year, on the initiative of the commission, for technical assistance expenditure. a maximum of eur 1,75 million may be used annually to cover the implementation needs of the fund indicated. the commission justifies the transfer of this amount on the basis of the need to cover monitoring, information activities (maintenance of the egf website and translation into all official eu languages), creation of a knowledge base, technical and administrative assistance and evaluation. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's social policy is not distorted by the introduction of new forms of work organization.
in writing. − since its creation in 2006, the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) has played an important role in helping workers affected by structural changes in world trade patterns or the effects of the current global economic and financial crisis. i welcome the fact that regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 sets a maximum amount of 0,35% of the annual amount of the egf to finance the monitoring, information, administrative and technical support activities, as well as the control, audit and evaluation activities necessary for the implementation of the egf regulation. it also encourages the provision of information and guidance to member states on the use, monitoring and evaluation of the egf, and the provision of information on the use of the egf to european and national social partners. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who lose their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. each year, the european commission has the right to mobilise up to 0,35% of the total amount of the egf (eur 1 750 000,00) for technical assistance activities such as financial monitoring, administrative support or audit and control. the amount requested was eur 1.120.00, which was reduced by the council to eur 730.000.00, on the grounds that there is no need to carry out dissemination activities for this programme as it is already at the end of the programming period. finally, i believe that the amount in question could help the european institutions to make every effort to improve the procedural and budgetary arrangements of the egf, and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this commission proposal concerns the mobilisation of eur 1.12 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to cover technical assistance expenditure by the commission. a maximum amount of eur 1,75 million may be used annually to cover the needs of the implementation of the egf, involving the following activities: monitoring, information, creation of a knowledge base, technical and administrative assistance and evaluation. we welcome the fact that the committee on budgets has approved the amendments tabled by the egf working party of the committee on employment and social affairs. these amendments were aimed at requesting further simplification and faster processing of applications, an assessment of the efficiency of the dissemination tools financed under technical assistance and an assessment, before the adoption of the new egf regulation for the period 2014-2020, on the effectiveness of the crisis derogation application criterion.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering that although latin america is one of the european union's largest trading partners and receives financial aid from the european union through the development and cooperation instrument, the truth is that there is still a great deal of poverty in latin america, where some 180 million people still live below the poverty line. however, i welcome the effort made in this report to strengthen the european union's presence in latin america by refocusing aid policy, considering it necessary to have tailor-made cooperation, i.e. based on the situation of each country and based on crossborder indicators. the development cooperation policy needs to be strengthened by encouraging and strengthening south-south regional cooperation.
in writing. − the european commission and the european parliament are involved in the negotiation process for the next development cooperation instrument (dci) and the financial framework for the period 2014-2020. this report, which i have supported, is intended to contribute to this process with regard to the new means of development cooperation between the eu and latin america. it is unacceptable that in the ec proposal on the icd, basic services have been explicitly removed from the list of priorities. the rapporteur therefore insists on respecting the current commitment to allocate 20% of aid to the main sectors of education, training and public health. the new cdi proposal needs to be given added value - not only by increasing the quantity of aid but also, and above all, by improving the quality of the instrument. the new icd programming should continue the fight against climate change through specific funds and programmes, especially with a view to adaptation in vulnerable countries in latin america.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it necessary to strengthen coordination between the european union and latin america in the implementation of the millennium development goals (mdgs), especially actions aimed at combating poverty, creating jobs and social inclusion of marginalised groups, as well as mitigating the impact of climate change on sustainable development, the protection of biodiversity, deforestation and agricultural production in latin america.
in writing. − cooperation between the european union and the latin american region has always been of considerable importance at various levels, notably in development cooperation. it is a region with 180 million people living below the poverty line and with the highest levels of inequality in the world. despite progress, poverty levels remain very high and progress towards the millennium development goals, particularly poverty, job creation and social cohesion, is insufficient. we need to rethink and act more effectively in our policy of cooperation and development with latin america: to address the specificities of each country through a differentiated approach in line with our trade policy, making resources available through the icd for the improvement of living conditions and promoting equity, decent work, reform of judicial systems, the fight against violence and crime, the conservation of biodiversity and sustainable development of the region. to achieve these objectives, i believe that the full involvement of national authorities, regional blocs and civil society is necessary in setting priorities and in pursuing programmes.
in writing. − the eu's development cooperation policy must be consistent with other union policies and together play a key role in achieving the millennium development goals and in fulfilling international commitments on human rights, food security and environmental sustainability. however, the establishment of new development cooperation with latin america is also an economic opportunity for europe. given latin america's economic growth, despite persistent inequalities, the eu has an opportunity in this process of defining new cooperation with latin america to ensure that the benefit is mutual. in particular, given the economic circumstances in the eu.
in writing. − in a globalised world where money is king, those living in the underworld of crime and corruption find favourable ground in developing countries whose populations often live below the poverty line. some countries in africa, asia, and south america are in this situation. they have economies that depend on the cultivation of narcotics, often exploit sex tourism in clear violation of human rights, and they have a proliferation of parallel economies where fraud and corruption are rampant. the european union, the main donor of international aid to the countries of latin america, is attentive to this phenomenon and has been cooperating with other international organisations. it is worth noting the progress made in some countries which have shown growth of more than 4% of their gross domestic product and are now in a position to move from the poverty agenda to the development agenda. i voted in favour of this report on the definition of a new development cooperation with latin america which, while continuing to support countries living below the poverty line, changes some cooperation procedures from aid to partnership, bringing the relationship between the eu and these countries to a higher level.
in writing. - this report is long and not without major contradictions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new tariffs, and that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of new tariffs. the confusion between a policy of development cooperation (necessary and desirable) and the defence of the commercial interests of european economic groups is evident in several points of the report. the concerns expressed about china's growing presence in the region are illuminating. the usual rhetoric around human rights does not hide blatant contradictions. the association agreement with colombia is defended, while the problems that persist in colombia at this level are ignored. the criminal blockade imposed on cuba for decades is also being ignored. once again, an instrumental view of human rights is clear, which we reject. it is also indisputable that there is a certain attempt to impose a certain political and economic model, thus disregarding the sovereignty and the legitimate choices of the peoples - which in several countries in america have led them to break with neoliberalism. we cannot support this report.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty establishes that the union's action in the international context must be based on the principles of the universality and indivisibility of human rights, respect for human dignity and the principles of equality and solidarity. it also states that the union should seek to develop relations and create partnerships with third countries, supporting sustainable development in the economic, social and environmental fields of developing countries, with the primary objective of poverty eradication. it is essential that eu development cooperation policy and, in particular, coherence between union policies play a key role in achieving the millennium development goals and in fulfilling international commitments on human rights, food security and environmental sustainability. it is in the context of these objectives that cooperation between the eu and latin america, a rapidly developing region of the world, should be developed.
in writing. − as the european commission and the european parliament are involved in the process of negotiating the next cdi and the financial framework for the period 2014-2020, this report intends, in due time, to contribute to this process with regard to the new means of development cooperation between the european union and the latin american region. as latin america is the most dynamic region in the world in terms of south-south cooperation, i voted in favour of this report, while remaining constantly alert to any agreements which might be negotiated and which tend to trade the european agricultural sector for benefits in other sectors, which should be prevented.
in writing. − this report calls for a new approach to development cooperation between the european union and latin america. the overall objective of this development cooperation is essentially to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable economic and social development. but there are huge challenges to be overcome, ranging from reducing violence and crime to promoting education and training. in this way, the eu must act as a global actor, taking on the role of an active member of the international community and not just as the world's leading donor. otherwise, the eu could condemn itself to irrelevance in entire regions, opening the way for other actors to intervene.
in writing. − although the effects of the global economic and financial crisis in latin america have been less severe than in other regions and despite positive economic forecasts, this region has 180 million people living below the poverty line and 10 countries among the 15 with the highest levels of inequality in the world. the eu is the region's main source of development aid, the main investor and the second largest trading partner. progress is needed on the conclusion of a partnership agreement with central america, the creation of an investment facility for latin america and the establishment of dialogues on climate change, innovation, drugs or migration. in addition, the proposed next development cooperation instrument (dci) can bring added value. the fight against poverty, inequality and exclusion should be given greater emphasis, by encouraging regional, budgetary and fiscal policies, boosting basic social services and investment in science, technology and innovation, combating insecurity, the production, consumption and trafficking of drugs, and promoting gender equality. i have therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the promotion of solidarity cooperation between countries and that promotes the development not dependent on the countries that are supported, is always important. however, we cannot fail to point out points with which we disagree and whose measures will contribute to perpetuating the dependence of the countries of latin america, as exemplified by the free trade agreements supported in this report and which are being contested by workers and producers in those countries. on the other hand, cooperation must be carried out in a disinterested manner and not on the basis of motives such as competition with chinese investments in the region. we do not yet accept the possibility of any link between development aid and the intervention of eu external (military) action.
in writing. − i welcome this report, first of all by highlighting that volunteering directly contributes to key eu policy objectives such as social inclusion, employment, education, capacity building, citizenship, social justice and solidarity. in order to achieve this recognition, it is necessary to encourage the european commission to continue to support volunteering activities through its programmes and through cohesion programmes, as well as the recognition of non-formal and informal learning including the volunteering dimension and the acceptance of this activity at national and european level. however, this requires the development of national strategies and a clear legal framework at european union level.
in writing. − the initiatives organised in the framework of the european year of voluntary activities (2011) have demonstrated the importance of volunteering, a phenomenon involving some 100 million european citizens able to contribute to the production of 5% of european gdp. there is a growing number of citizens of all ages involved in a variety of fields such as education, culture, youth, sport, the environment and relations with third countries. unfortunately, the need for budgetary consolidation threatens the financial sustainability of many ngos, so it is necessary to ensure adequate and stable funding and to simplify administrative procedures. member states are urged to implement appropriate legal frameworks and develop national strategies for promoting volunteering, either by recognising the rights and role of volunteers or by improving information networks. the commission is also urged to negotiate visa facilitation for third country nationals and to set up a centralised eu portal dedicated to volunteering. the support for the commission's proposals for the creation of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps and the european competence passport is noteworthy, as all these measures are essential for the promotion of crossborder volunteering. i therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that volunteering activities are an expression of active citizenship in all aspects of social life and are a fundamental activity for the development of democratic values, human dignity, equality and subsidiarity, and also because i consider it necessary to emphasise the role of volunteering in promoting the principles of european identity and common values such as solidarity and social cohesion, including outside europe.
in writing. − volunteering plays a major role in the economic and social sustainability of europe. it embodies the core values of justice, solidarity, inclusion and citizenship on which the european union is founded. having successfully completed the european year of volunteering (2011), it is now necessary to pave the way for the development of this activity, which directly contributes to key eu policy objectives such as social inclusion, employment, education, skills development and citizenship. in addition to increasing people's tolerance, it creates human and social capital and plays a very strong role in the fields of humanitarian aid and cooperation, whether in post-crisis or disaster situations or in the sustainable development process across borders. i therefore believe that the commission and the member states should promote volunteering activities by establishing a clear and appropriate legal framework for volunteers, by removing bureaucracies and barriers such as the granting of visas to third-country nationals wishing to enter the union for the purpose of volunteering, by creating synergies with existing organisations, by creating a centralised eu portal for volunteering and the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps, as provided for in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − the initiatives organised last year under the european year of volunteering have demonstrated the growing importance of the volunteering phenomenon on the european continent in a range of areas, from education to culture, youth policies, sport, environmental protection and sustainable development, health, immigration, advocacy, corporate social responsibility and in the eu's relations with third countries, involving some 100 million of our fellow citizens and contributing to around 5% of european gdp. unfortunately, the economic crisis and budgetary consolidation are threatening the financial sustainability of many ngos and volunteers who work daily to enhance active citizenship, solidarity and social inclusion across europe, as the economic crisis and political-economic constraints have an objective impact on sustainable funding and fundraising for these activities. i would like to stress from this own-initiative report, which i voted in favour of and for which i congratulate the rapporteur, that i support the commission's proposals for the creation of the european voluntary humanitarian aid corps and the european competence passport.
in writing. - voluntarism is, in its simplest definition, goodwill in action. it's free, it's generous, it's free and it's uncommitted. it is also a fundamental pillar of any society, with the work of thousands of volunteers, acting formally or informally in various areas, making a difference in thousands of lives every day. at the moment, there are 100 million european citizens engaged in various volunteering activities, which is a very significant number. the rapporteur now proposes to improve the conditions for volunteering by creating a centralised eu portal dedicated to volunteering, with a specific section on cross-border volunteering, the establishment of a european voluntary humanitarian aid corps and the development of a european skills passport. i generally agree with the ideas put forward by the rapporteur, which are in line with the csf, which has always looked at the question of volunteering politically, recognising its undeniable social dimension and seeking to put forward concrete proposals to help volunteers, giving them the dignity and recognition they deserve. i believe, however, that volunteering should be kept as free and unregulated as possible.
in writing. − the report under review, by marco scurria, comes after 2011 was the year of volunteering and focuses on the need to recognise and promote crossborder volunteering activities in the european union (eu). in a european union (eu) that is increasingly fraternal and supportive, crossborder volunteering is becoming increasingly important, especially in view of the current economic and financial crisis and the lack of prospects for its end in the short term. first of all, i would like to welcome the importance which the european institutions intend to attach to this solidarity work, with a view to recognising it and creating the conditions for more citizens to be able to devote themselves to this noble cause in any of the following areas: social, environmental and heritage. since there is no volunteering without organisations, it is essential to adopt a legal framework to promote and encourage the activities of these ngos, in particular by exempting them from vat, simplifying procedures and creating a volunteering passport. i am aware that a big world is made up of small daily acts, so i am voting in favour of this report and i urge the member states to encourage volunteering and to measure its impact on the economy.
in writing. - this report is extensive, detailing various aspects of volunteering. without underestimating the importance and potential of volunteering - which we value highly - we do not fully follow the perspective on volunteering presented here, mainly because of what it may imply in terms of the disempowerment of the state and the underestimation of the role of public policies in a wide range of areas. some risks arising from the distortion and even subversion of the concept of volunteering are not adequately addressed. volunteering can under no circumstances be used to justify or legitimize situations of irresponsibility on the part of the state, such as lack of or poor training in schools, or to extort free work from young people, adults and the elderly. however, we appreciate the fact that almost all the amendments proposed by our group have been accepted. it is important to address some of the problems experienced today by volunteers and the ngos that promote it, such as funding difficulties, bureaucracy and lack of recognition of the activities that have been developed. the report has some good paragraphs on strengthening the financing of associations, collectives and the like. but we are rejecting proposals such as the european statute for associations, as formulated here.
in writing. − volunteering is an expression of active citizenship in all aspects of social life and is a key activity for the development of democratic values, human dignity, equality and subsidiarity. it should therefore be supported by all member states. the figures reveal a body of 100 million european citizens engaged in various volunteering activities, capable of contributing to the production of 5% of european gdp, and these activities being considered by 80% of citizens as an important element of democratic life and a meaningful way for citizens to participate in society. volunteering is thus a precious european heritage.
in writing. − i was actively involved in the european year of volunteering, which i chose as the theme for 2011, and i promoted actions in the azores and brussels. i am pleased to note that all these initiatives organised in the framework of the european year of voluntary activities (2011) have helped to demonstrate the importance of volunteering, a phenomenon involving some 100 million european citizens who are able to contribute to the production of 5% of european gdp. the times we live in and the need for budgetary consolidation threaten the financial sustainability of many ngos, so it is necessary to ensure adequate and stable funding and to simplify administrative procedures. in this context, the european parliament calls on the member states to make an effort in this direction. i also stress the call on the commission to negotiate visa facilitation for third country nationals and to create a centralised eu portal dedicated to volunteering. all these reasons justify my vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − recently, there has been a growing awareness among european citizens of the importance of volunteering. this awareness is reflected in the growing number of citizens who are drawn to this activity, which provides not only personal development and cultural learning but also contributes to the reinforcement of civic values, solidarity and participation in democratic life. member states are therefore asked to apply the provisions of council directive 2004/114/ec on the conditions of admission of third-country nationals for the purposes of studies, student exchanges, unremunerated training and voluntary service. in the same vein, the simplification of visa procedures for persons wishing to engage in volunteering activities, in particular in the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, should also be promoted. in this way, it is intended to increase cooperation between volunteers from eu countries and third countries, in particular in the context of the european neighbourhood policy, as volunteering can provide additional benefits, including the promotion of democracy and the rule of law in third countries. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − this report aims to take stock of the european year of voluntary activities promoting active citizenship (2011), and at the same time to strengthen measures to support volunteering in the eu and beyond. volunteering is an activity that instills essential values in the citizen, namely the promotion of solidarity and equality, which spreads the most humanistic side of the individual, through active participation in society, at all levels. it is therefore essential to remember the importance of the year of volunteering and the implementation of support measures. the rapporteur therefore proposes the creation of a 'european voluntary humanitarian aid corps' which would work in line with existing institutions and structures; a portal which would centralise all information relating to intra- and inter-eu volunteering; tax incentives, in particular for small organisations with limited financial resources; the creation of a special status for organisations which would facilitate cross-border volunteering; and the creation of a european skills passport, which would validate volunteering experience as part of informal training. volunteering is the purest form of active citizenship and a key element for the personal development of citizens that deserves to be supported and developed.
in writing. − volunteering activities face a number of problems both with volunteers and with the ngos promoting it, including difficulties in funding, various bureaucracies and lack of recognition of the activities carried out. these problems need to be solved urgently and this report points to some solutions. however, we cannot but disagree with views that see volunteering as an opportunity for employability, that encourage companies to promote volunteering among their employees and that support the recognition of volunteering as a professional experience. volunteering activities should be undertaken on their own initiative and not as a result of a lack of existing employment. on the other hand, they should never replace jobs and job creation.
in writing. − i welcome this report, as the growing digital innovations and information technology have made cybersecurity an increasingly important priority. i welcome the proposal here for a comprehensive eu cybersecurity strategy which should give priority to the security of critical information infrastructure protection and prevent attacks on systems, strengthening the eu's global cybersecurity engagement.
in writing. − with the increasing use of the internet and information technologies, internet security issues must remain a top political priority for the european union as well as the rest of the world. the data available on cybercrime indicate a significant increase in several european countries. this report, which has been supported by me, calls for the minimum standards of resilience to be updated regularly to protect against any disturbance, incident, attempted destruction and attack. calls on the european network and information security agency (enisa) to coordinate and implement the european cybersecurity awareness months annually; recommends that the commission propose binding measures to impose minimum standards on security and resilience and to improve coordination between national it emergency response teams (cert). the committee also welcomed the commission's proposal to introduce a european-wide public education initiative focusing on educating and raising awareness among users of the potential threats posed by the internet. it called on the commission to present a legislative proposal to strengthen the criminalisation of cyberattacks. increasing the resilience of the internet is only possible with a system of international cooperation and international standards.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to strengthen the protection of critical information infrastructures in order to strengthen citizens' overall security, their perception of security and their confidence in the measures taken by governments to protect them, and this strengthening should enhance the lasting integration of european research in order to maintain and strengthen european excellence in this field.
in writing. − the internet and new information and communication technologies are now real drivers of social interaction, cultural enrichment and economic growth. however, the confidence of users in the use of icts depends on the guarantees given to them in terms of security and resilience, as well as on the fact that there is effective enforcement of legislation on privacy and data protection, net neutrality and protection of intellectual property rights. there has been a significant increase in cybercrime in several european countries. the recent cyber incidents and attacks against eu and member states' information infrastructures also clearly demonstrate the need to establish an effective, robust and innovative system for the protection of critical information infrastructures, based on full international cooperation and minimum standards of resilience between member states. it is essential to establish national cybersecurity contingency plans as well as a robust regulatory framework with appropriate procedures and mechanisms to ensure better coordination between national competent authorities and greater consistency in their actions. i support the creation of a critical infrastructure protection service that operates continuously in each member state, as well as the establishment of a common european emergency protocol.
in writing. − in recent years, our dependence on information infrastructures has increased exponentially, making us increasingly vulnerable to cyberattacks, which are particularly severe when they target institutional infrastructures and businesses. recent attacks have exposed the vulnerability of institutions and networks that we would have considered to be properly protected, revealing the need for strategies that ensure cybersecurity. as the report states, 'the increasing use and deployment of innovative ict technologies such as the internet and fixed or mobile, high or ultra-high speed cellular networks, smart grids, but also internet services such as cloud computing and the internet of things, all depend on a simple but crucial aspect security, resilience and trust. " the use of all these technologies, which are becoming increasingly essential for institutions, businesses and citizens, depends to a large extent on the implementation of a clear strategy to ensure that these information infrastructures are secure.
in writing. − in the era of globalisation we live in and in view of the increasing use of new information technologies, it is understandable that internet security is a priority for the european union and its member states. from transport systems to industry, and from services - judicial, financial, military or otherwise - it is essential to ensure their security in accessing internet services, as these are critical structures whose collapse would jeopardise not only the functioning of that member state but the functioning of the european union itself. as no state is self-sufficient in this area, international political and regulatory measures are needed to ensure the functioning of the internal market and to increase the security of networks through cross-border surveillance and prevention mechanisms. despite the alert systems, we're aware of cyber attacks. it is imperative to protect ourselves not only from cyberterrorist attacks, but also from possible violations of citizens' privacy and the disclosure of confidential data that jeopardise the security of states. because i believe in and trust new technologies, i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr kalfin on the protection of critical information infrastructures for global cybersecurity.
in writing. − with regard to so-called global cybersecurity, the commission has defined a set of instruments, including the action programme for the protection of critical information infrastructures and the critical infrastructure alert network, which this own-initiative report endorses and promotes the implementation of. we recognise the importance of ensuring that people have the necessary security and protection when using the internet and the infrastructure that supports the service. however, we disagree with security-oriented strategies and policies that restrict freedom of expression and movement on the internet. the report proposes a strong role for the european external action service in this area. it intends to permanently integrate internet security issues into its external relations, including when awarding its various funding instruments, aligning policy orientation and legislative action with its us counterparts. on the other hand, coordinated positions are advocated in international forums under the umbrella of the promotion of fundamental values, in which nato, the un and the world bank, among others, participate. we cannot but point out that the so-called global cybersecurity is part of nato's new strategic concept, a vision which the majority of parliament supports. for all these reasons, we voted against this report.
in writing. − the role of technology has been expanding more and more in everyone's daily lives, from communication to finance and banking, from transport to energy, and from culture to entertainment and health. cybersecurity is thus one of the main concerns and political priorities of the eu and the rest of the world. however, the rapid advances in all information technologies, the emergence of new technologies and their development, make this task very difficult. every effort must be made at global level to protect critical information infrastructures.
in writing. − internet security remains a top political priority for the european union and the rest of the world. the europe 2020 strategy, launched in 2010, included the digital agenda for europe as a flagship policy, set to ambitious targets for the european union's technological development. the increasing use and deployment of innovative technologies depends on a simple but crucial aspect: security, resilience and trust. the rapid development of technology requires that the prevention of internet attacks, remedial responses and resilience of the global network be based on a comprehensive, responsive, flexible, innovative and long-term framework. emphasizing the call in this report for the european network and information security agency and the european commission to participate in the main stakeholder dialogues on the definition of technical and legal standards for cyberspace at international level, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − technology is becoming increasingly important in many sectors of the european economy and in the daily lives of citizens, and the european commission has launched the flagship initiative 'digital agenda for europe' as part of the europe 2020 strategy. i agree with this report which aims to introduce a high level of security and resilience in information and communication networks, services and technologies by adopting new security standards for critical information infrastructures. the aim is to improve protection and knowledge of security breaches in specific sectors of the european economy. i also believe that the european network and information security agency (enisa) should play a more prominent role in cybersecurity issues and should carry out more pan-european exercises to ensure greater security for businesses and citizens.
in writing. − we recognise the importance of ensuring that people are safe and secure when using the internet and the infrastructures that support it. however, we strongly disagree that this statement is part of a set of strategies and policies of a security nature and deeply damaging in terms of employment and freedom of expression for these same populations. these measures are closely linked to the work of the european external action services, which aim to permanently integrate internet security issues into its external relations, including when awarding its various funding instruments, aligning policy guidance and legislative action with its us counterparts. on the other hand, coordinated positions are being orchestrated in international forums under the umbrella of the promotion of fundamental values, in which nato, the un and the world bank, among others, participate. as regards these fundamental values, it cannot be overlooked that the so-called global cybersecurity is part of nato's new strategic concept and that, along with and in alternation with the usa, its central partner, they are orchestrating war after war, under the most diverse political and geostrategic arguments. for all these reasons, we voted against.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that greater coordination between the member states and the european union is urgently needed in order to work together to increase europe's influence in the world in the field of energy and to ensure its supply. it is necessary not only in the energy field, but also in all the other areas that we can call global, that the european union fulfils its duty to speak with one voice in the world, otherwise it will lose its negotiating power and its political credibility in the international arena.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to ensure reliable and cost-competitive access to global energy supply in order to support europe's competitiveness and security in the light of the eu's current policy objectives set out in the 20-20-20 package and the long-term commitment to decarbonise our economy by 2050; because i believe that pooling of efforts in r & d and innovation (rdi) at eu level will allow for better quality and more efficient, economical and dynamic research than if it were undertaken by individual member states; and because i support our continued efforts to seek cooperation with third countries on r & d with a view to maximising mutual benefits at international level.
in writing. − the availability of secure, sustainable and competitive energy is of paramount importance to the eu economy, industry and citizens and is one of the central objectives of european policies. it is worth noting that the eu imports more than 60% of its gas and more than 80% of its oil, facing increasing competition for fossil fuel resources, including from emerging countries and energy producers themselves. in addition, dependence on energy imports will tend to increase over the next decade due to the depletion of domestic resources. experience has shown that bilateral energy relations established individually between member states and third country or transit country suppliers may result in the fragmentation of the internal market rather than in the strengthening of the eu's energy supply and competitiveness. i therefore believe that a fully integrated european energy market, which operates on the basis of solidarity and responds to the challenges of energy supply, is vital. only a coherent and coordinated approach between the member states, the commission and the council will allow for a strong external position of the eu's energy objectives and guarantee a better negotiating position vis-à-vis third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on cooperation on energy policy with partners beyond our borders, because i support the need for the eu to act in a coordinated way to define a common position in negotiations with third countries and thus guarantee the security of energy supply.
in writing. - the events of the so-called arab spring have made even more evident the energy dependence of which the european union is suffering today and the insecurity which some of its suppliers are experiencing. it is now clear that this over-dependence is a major strategic weakness and that without a coherent and common response by the member states to the challenges they face, they will be more easily constrained in their action and more subject to external pressures. the excessive reliance of some member states on a small group of suppliers increases their exposure and weakness. the diversification of internal and external energy sources and the creation of national and european energy pools, which include energy from a sufficient number of sources to allow competition, should therefore be encouraged. the importance of the energy question is such that it must increasingly be considered as one of the main european priorities and the pursuit of a common policy in this area must therefore be encouraged.
in writing. - the rapid technological evolution we have seen in recent years has led to a significant increase in global energy consumption. despite the growing emphasis on the exploitation of renewable energy sources, the truth is that we remain very dependent on so-called fossil fuels. the report by edit herczog deals with the issue of how to strengthen cooperation on energy policy with partners beyond our borders: a strategic approach to secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply. while our energy partnerships to the east and south are important, the european union (eu) cannot fail to look for other markets, always demanding compliance with community criteria, especially with regard to the exploitation of raw materials and environmental protection. these partnerships should take the broadest possible approach and ensure stable energy flows. i am aware of the importance of energy in all areas and i voted in favour of this report. i hope, however, that the eu will speak with one voice on energy and support the technological development of renewable energy and the installation of such equipment, thus contributing to the relaunch of economic growth and job creation.
in writing. − the whole of this report is based on the idea of implementing and strengthening the internal energy market, the undeniable negative consequences of which have been worsening, particularly since the creation of the energy community in 2006, which established the internal market for electricity and gas. this path is inseparable from the liberalizations and privatizations that have removed this important strategic sector of the economy from the public sphere, with all the constraints that this entails, especially for countries with weaker economies such as portugal. given the current energy dependence of the eu, and the trend towards an increasing population and consumption in the coming decades, this document does not hide concerns about future energy supply. it is vital for the eu powers and their economic groups to secure this supply. not for reasons of vital public interest, but for the old reason that determines their choices (and actions): to pursue capitalist accumulation. to do so, they must not disguise their unbridled imperial ambitions, in the service of which they want to continue to put the european union and its foreign policy, as they have always done, now with this important instrument, the european external action service, created by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - the european union's energy dependence and the insecurity of some of its suppliers are increasingly worrying. it is becoming increasingly clear that over-dependence is bad if not well used, and that it can only be well implemented if there is a coherent and common energy market approach strategy by all member states. we must therefore commit ourselves to a genuine common policy on energy policy.
in writing. - i have approved this report which calls for closer cooperation on energy policy with partners beyond our borders. europe is a major buyer of energy in world energy markets. while this may be seen as a weakness, it can also be one of our strengths: we are the largest importer and if we take advantage of this fact, act in a coordinated way at eu level and take a firm and common position in negotiations with third countries, we will almost always be in a good negotiating position to exert our power as a strong player in the demand side market. a common negotiating approach, extending our sphere of influence beyond the borders of europe, in particular in the field of energy market rules, can be a plus for all. i have voted in favour of this procedure, highlighting this among other proposals.
in writing. − in september 2011, the european commission presented a communication on security of energy supply and international cooperation entitled 'eu energy policy: closing the gap with partners beyond our borders'. i support this report because i believe that the eu must have a strong and effective position on the international scene, ensuring the energy it needs for its economic activities. at a time when europe imports more than 60% of its gas and more than 80% of its oil, it is important to have better coordination at internal level and effective cooperation with the various international partners. in order to increase energy sustainability and reduce europe's dependence on certain international actors, i believe it is important to diversify the suppliers and sources of energy supply to the european union, and it will also be necessary to promote new forms of energy exploitation, with particular emphasis on renewable energies.
in writing. − the whole report is based on the idea of strengthening, analysing and implementing the internal energy market, the undeniable negative consequences of which have been worsening, particularly since the creation of the energy community in 2006, which established the internal market for electricity and gas. in the face of the current energy dependence of the eu and the trend of increasing population and consumption for the next few decades, this document points to solutions based on more of the same, i.e. more internal energy market, and its full implementation as the centre of all action. the square of the circle is also defended, while ensuring and enhancing security of supply, competitiveness and sustainability in a cost-effective way, continuing a policy of exploiting the energy resources of the eu as well as of third countries, with which the european external action services will take care to ensure that all multilateral and bilateral agreements of the eu [...] fully comply with the rules of the eu internal market. these solutions are being unmasked by those who suffer the disastrous consequences, such as the populations who see the price of energy bills constantly rising and, consequently, access to energy increasingly difficult.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament madam president, madam high representative, the european parliament has for many years defended the existence of this special representative for human rights, the special representative of the european union, and in this marathon we are now in the final stages. two things are missing which are essential to ensure that when we have the special representative everything will go well: we must appoint a person who is the right person for the first few days, to be the face of this special representative in the first few days, and this appointment is obviously up to you, and, as our rapporteur salafranca said, working, cooperating with parliament, and we must complete the mandate. and so it is very important, as we all know, as we all agree, to ensure that this person does not create a human rights ghetto, but that he, on the contrary, expresses all human rights policies through all the policies of the european union, trade agreements, bilateral relations of the member states, multilateral relations with international bodies, we agree on that. i'm going to focus on what i think we still need to agree on in these final meters of this marathon until we have our special representative. i cannot understand why a special representative, who is a special representative of the european union, does not have a clear answer, yes or no, until the end of his mandate, the strict obligation to answer before parliament. we cannot be representatives of the european union without being accountable to the parliament of the european union itself, and that is essential. we want to see the special representative here in strasbourg on human rights emergencies, and we want to see him, and this is the final question, in the working contact group on human rights, and the second question is whether that group can be formalised and have him on paper, i am grateful that the representative has said that she likes the existence of this contact group, so we need to put it on paper and document it.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament madam president, mr dartmouth, i see that you are very concerned about the working conditions of the special representative - i will give you time to have the translation from portuguese to english - i see that you are very concerned about the working conditions of the next special representative for human rights, i would like to ask you whether, instead of justifying the working conditions of the special representative, you are concerned or not that he, in his mandate, is not yet obliged to answer to parliament, not the possibility but the obligation, thus giving you the possibility, mr dartmouth, to justify your own working conditions, holidays and salary.
madam president, the appointment of a special representative for human rights should be a step forward in the european union's foreign policy guided by its fundamental values and principles of promoting human rights and democracy, not only in the european area but also worldwide. the eusr shall have political experience, credentials in the field of international humanitarian law or human rights law or international justice and be able to act as an intelligent and strategic advocate for human rights and democracy and the rule of law across all latitudes and longitudes. it shall speak on behalf of the european union and answer to this parliament whenever necessary and shall, in coordination with the high representative and the member states, ensure that guidelines, toolkits, action plans in this area are effectively implemented. it must be someone who is not afraid to speak out loud, to condemn loudly and clearly human rights violations in any state, including those with which the european union has special relations, and who is in fact establishing an honest, transparent and strategic dialogue. we cannot continue to make deals and to offer financial support inconsistently and with impunity to regimes which systematically disregard the basic rights of their people. our security, trade and development or energy policies must ensure concrete results and democratic reforms in third countries and, to this end, invest in the empowerment of civil society as a priority in our external action. therefore, human rights strategies for each country should be prepared in collaboration with civil society and their concrete priorities and objectives should be made public. i hope that the council and the member states will endeavour to ensure full cooperation with the special representative (s) and facilitate his task of coordinating the voices he will be facing. i trust you'll make the best choice, madam high representative.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament madam president, madam high representative, i want to start by saying that i was not very satisfied with the answer that the high representative gave to the questions in our last debate on the special representative. the special representative for human rights is, by virtue of his office, the special representative of the european union, is not a special representative of the external action service, is not a special representative of the council and is not the special representative or the personal representative of the hr. if he is a special representative of the european union, he must have obligations towards the community institutions, he is a special community representative, that is my constitutional reading of the treaties, and if, as the high representative says, the treaties already state that he has obligations towards the community institutions, including this house, which is one of them, it is not at all understandable that in his mandate he should not have an obligation to come and speak before parliament. i would like to thank my colleagues, mr howitt and mr donskis, for the work they have done and the very meritorious work they have done in monitoring the annual situation. i would just like to add something for us to think about: last year was not only a momentous year in terms of human rights, it was also a very important year for the european union, it was the year in which the european union became weaker in terms of economic and political power, it was the year in which many of our member states received representatives from china or angola or other countries that have human rights problems and asked them for money to pay their debts. it is very important that, in the strategic aspect of reflecting on what our human rights action will be, the european union starts by putting its house in order and thinks that it is necessary not only to imagine a better world but also to imagine a more agile way of acting in terms of external policy action. one of the most important things, of course, and i will return to the beginning of my speech, is the cooperation between our institutions, which must be done in a reliable, documented and structured way.
the european parliament, in the resolution we are voting on tomorrow, stresses that transparency, political accountability and legal binding are key words for an arms trade treaty that protects humanity against a trade that fuels conflict in the most vulnerable regions of the world. the european union and its member states, while doing much more to support the united nations programme of action against the illicit trade in small arms and light weapons, must strategically strive for a robust arms trade treaty that prevents legally exported, imported or traded military weapons and technology from continuing to be diverted to overthrow democratic governments, exploit populations and fuel war. transparency in the disclosure of all information relating to the export, import and transfer of arms and military technology is essential if governments are not to continue to be accomplices of arms-trafficking brokers of death. an effective arms trade treaty must bind the states parties to red lines and mechanisms for monitoring compliance. the european union must speak with one voice, as mrs asthon said, in the negotiations in july, doing everything possible to ensure that the standard does not fall below its own common position on arms exports and to ensure that the treaty is based on international human rights law and international humanitarian law.
mr president, the images we get daily of men, women and children savagely massacred in syria leave us short of words to express our horror and our solidarity with the syrian people. bashar al-assad and his henchmen and women, if they survive, will have to face international justice for crimes against humanity and war crimes against their people, but ominous responsibility also lies with their backers, russia and china in particular, who continue to sell weapons to the regime and block action in the un security council to stop the bloodshed, thus boycotting in practice the annan plan. the incapacity of the un security council to call for the international community to exercise their responsibility to protect the syrian people is making the bloody conflict become a civil war, dramatically impacting a region already plagued by conflict. lady ashton, i fully second your words urging the israeli authorities to stop the illegal settlement activity and move towards genuine peace with palestine. iran, saudi arabia and qatar should also be warned by the un security council, and certainly by the european union, about their interference in instigating the sectarian bloodshed by conducting their own proxy war in syria at the expense of the syrian people. to the brave syrians resisting at home and abroad, i can only in all honesty say that they must not wait for international action, should guard themselves from being used by extremists and terrorists and must lose no time in getting united under a platform for national salvation to overthrow the tyrant regime and move towards a new era of democratic conviviality among all ethnic and religious segments of the syrian people.
we are all appalled by the brutal attacks, but these brutal attacks, which have outraged us all, are unfortunately one of the practices carried out by armed terrorist groups in syria. the same gangs that, as is known, documented and discussed, are financed, supported and armed by the united states of america and by various fundamentalist dictatorships in a campaign of aggression, interference and destabilization that has lasted for more than a year. terrorist groups, including al-qaeda, as ban ki-moon himself has admitted, al-qaeda, which served as a pretext for the united states of america to invade afghanistan and now paves the way for the united states and other subjugated powers to invade syria. the format of the campaign is not, let's say, entirely original. humanity has seen the use of falsifications and conspiracies to justify wars of aggression and bloody occupation on several occasions (kosovo, afghanistan, iraq, libya). anyone who supports an external military aggression against syria is clearly rejecting the diplomatic efforts being made and attacking the legitimate democratic and national rights of the syrian people.
on behalf of the s&d group. – mr president, china embodies much more than a country, more than the communist state and more than the current wild and corrupt capitalist economy. it is an extraordinary civilisation and a people whom i greatly admire. china also has particular responsibilities as a permanent member of the un security council, among them to respect human rights and to ensure they are respected, which is a particular pillar of the united nations charter. i cannot accept that any allegations of constraints, of whatever kind, exercised in tibetan monasteries and in tibetan life can be any excuse to justify china’s violation of the human rights of the tibetans in tibet and elsewhere. i believe that the tibetans have the right to enjoy their own culture, identity and freedom. they should be entitled to freedom of religion, to practise their religion and to practise freedom of expression and assembly. i cannot accept china closing tibet to foreign visitors, including foreign diplomats and journalists. what is there to hide? i cannot accept that the panchen lama child has disappeared for decades and that china does not account for the people that have self-immolated in the last months and the mass arrests and detentions that go on. i believe the current authorities in china are making a big mistake in continuing to refuse to negotiate with the dalai lama. it is a self-defeat for china. this will actually prepare the way for a more extremist, hard-line leadership in the future. this is the reason why i will vote for this resolution.
blue-card question. – mr president, does mrs andreasen accept that she is totally wrong when she says that money has been given to portugal, greece, ireland and the other countries bailed out. this money has not been given; this money has been lent. even mr klaus regling, the head of the european stabilisation fund, has been saying that this money has been gaining interest for the countries which are lending, and outrageous interest! (applause)
mr president, i would like to make it clear that we regard the council meeting at the end of june as essential and that it is essential to find a european solution to this crisis. the problem, from our point of view, is that we have so far dealt with each of the issues that have arisen in isolation and individually. the time has come for a global solution for europe, a solution which, as president daul has made clear, requires more integration, more cooperation, closer alignment of european policies and a renewed appreciation of the community method. it is essential that growth should go hand in hand with stability, but that we should not abandon the concerns of stability. we therefore count on a european response as a whole, and not on a response divided up for each state or for each region in difficulty.
in writing. more than members of the european parliament, we are citizens of different member states who aspire to a better europe. the european response to the challenges of our time will only be effective if it is based on a robust budget ensuring adequate financing of the union's political objectives, a budget that is flexible, rational and dynamic in the application of the funds distributed among the various headings and a political agreement on the reform of own resources. this is a budget which will not cost the taxpayer more, but which is ambitious and innovative. i believe that only a simpler and more flexible budget will have an impact on the lives of europeans. in particular, i stress the importance of the role of science and innovation, which will contribute to the competitiveness of european industry, particularly smes.
in writing. the guidelines emerging from the european institutions on the direction of the integration process reflect a simple equation. on the one hand, they want to deepen all the things that have been leading to divergence between member states: free competition in the internal market; the stability pact, now strengthened; the liberalisation of international trade; common policies tailored to the needs of just a few. on the other hand, they want to weaken the instruments which could mitigate or, preferably, even overcome inequalities - in which the community budget has a central role. the result can only be one: more divergence, more inequalities between member states, less cohesion. it's a disgrace what's going on in the council. the biggest beneficiaries of the internal market and common policies now want to reduce their contributions to the community budget even further, forcing a squeeze on the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. they want to cut the budget and they want to cut the cohesion funds. and they want to get a bigger share of that cohesion money. this is what is meant by the proposals for conditionality, the 'transition regions' or the modification of the weighting coefficients associated with cohesion. for the others, for the weaker economies, the costs of this integration are increasing and the benefits are decreasing.
the multiannual financial framework of the european union for the period 2014-2020 is increased by eur 49 billion (5,04%), compared to the 2007-2013 mff. the budget for the cohesion policy will be eur 1.025 billion, the largest financial envelope, surpassing the common agricultural policy for the first time. some aspects are accepted by the european parliament and the committee of the regions, such as the intermediate regions, the increase in the budget for territorial cooperation projects, the creation of the common strategic framework and the cohesion fund, which will continue to support countries with a gni below 90% of the eu gni. it should be noted that the first discussion of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 and the new cohesion policy regulations will take place only at the june european council. i think it is essential that the value of cohesion policy is maintained at the same level as in the previous programming period (2007-2013) and that the outermost regions have a financial envelope in the additional specific allocation that is adequate to meet their natural constraints.
the rapporteur, mrs schleicher, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on budgets.
in writing. − i approve this appointment, taking into account that the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, in particular with regard to the conditions laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and that, at its meeting on 4 june 2012, the committee on budgetary control held a hearing with the candidate proposed by the council for the post of member of the court of auditors.
in writing. − i wish iliana ivanova every success in the important task for which she is appointed, and i am convinced that she will carry out the duties for which she is now appointed with all the dedication and competence.
in writing. the european court of auditors (eca), made up of the national audit bodies of the member states, is responsible for checking that the community funds, which come from taxpayers, are properly managed in accordance with european law. the court shall consist of one representative of each member state, who shall appoint the president from among themselves. at the moment, it is chaired by the portuguese dr. vítor caldeira. this report, which was written by inés ayala sender, recommends that we approve the appointment of iliana ivanova as a member of the court of auditors. in view of the training and experience of the candidate nominated by the council and the opinion of the committee on budgetary control, i support the appointment of iliana ivanova of bulgaria as a member of the ect. given the importance of the ect's role in the transparency of european accounts, i hope that the new member will have a good mandate, aware that his success will be the success of all eu citizens.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. the council has therefore appointed several personalities from various eu countries to the court of auditors. the applicant submitted her cv, answered a written questionnaire and was heard by the committee on budgetary control, having presented sufficient arguments to justify her appointment to the court of auditors to perform her duties therein in a competent and independent manner. i therefore voted in favour of the name of iliana ivanova.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of iliana ivanova as a member of the court of auditors. all the data presented for this option, including the replies to the questionnaire for candidates for members of the court of auditors annexed to this report, justified my decision by indicating that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union are met and that the members of the court of auditors must be fully independent, and i therefore welcome the appointment of iliana ivanova.
in writing. − section 7 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the court of auditors as one of the european institutions. created in 1975, its objectives are to control the accounts and improve the financial management of the european union (eu). the court of auditors may carry out audits of any person or organisation responsible for the management of eu funds, and its findings are presented in writing in the form of reports which are sent to the commission and the governments of the eu countries. member states shall submit a proposal to the council which, after consulting the european parliament, shall adopt the list of members of the court of auditors. i am voting in favour of the appointment of iliana ivanova as she fulfils the conditions laid down in article 1 of article 286 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. − i approve these recommendations, agreeing in substance on the eu's role in the un, in particular with regard to global governance, peace and security, security council reform, development issues including sustainable development, climate change, human rights, justice and support for democracy. it is regrettable, however, that no agreement has been reached on the establishment of a united nations parliamentary assembly.
in writing. - the united nations reflects not the reality of 1945 but one which the victors of the second world war still believed existed at that time. unable to change, the un will risk jeopardizing its very survival. while it is true that the worlds of the cold war and american unipolarity were able to coexist with a security council stripped of effective military, demographic, economic and cultural representation, greater doubts arise as to its appetite to continue at the present time. it points to the rise of powerful states in the south and east to the status of emerging powers, the speed and accessibility of the people to the media and calls for a new approach. the best symbolic expression of this new understanding could be the increase in the number of permanent members of the united nations security council and a strengthening of the way in which the european union operates within the un and the way in which its member states are organised within it.
in writing. the report, drawn up by alexander graf lambsdorff of the alde group, contains a proposal for a european parliament (ep) recommendation to the council on the 67th session of the united nations general assembly. the participation of the european union (eu) in the united nations general assembly is always a relevant moment of political intervention in a world-class coordination and monitoring institution and as such should be prepared in light of this enormous responsibility. i voted in favour of this report as it seeks to improve the conditions for eu participation in the un general assembly (unga), whose resolution 65/276 was widely supported and which strengthens the eu's observer status. in addition, it is essential to make known the commitments made by member states on the institution building package of the united nations human rights council (unhrc) and the outcome of the review process. i hope that the eu's participation will make a decisive contribution to the preparation of a post-2015 development framework in the context of the millennium development goals (mdgs), global sustainable development and international humanitarian aid to populations whose survival is at risk for political or climatic reasons.
in writing. - we are faced with a report which contains obvious contradictions. while it is true that international law, the un and its role in global governance are defended, this defence is hardly compatible with the defence positions of nato, the g8, the g20, the imf or the wto. these forums (and others) pervert the world order to which the creation of the un opened the door, with the aim of establishing a new order under the domination of the great imperialist powers. the defence of respect for, promotion of and protection of the universality and indivisibility of human rights is not compatible with support for or complacency in the face of the terrorism of the state of israel against the palestinian people, or the occupation and killing of civilians in afghanistan, among many other examples. we reject the old aspiration of some, expressed here again, to secure a seat for the european union in an enlarged security council, thus seeking to give it a state legitimacy which the eu does not have.
in writing. − in a time of crisis such as the one we are living in, the eu needs to strengthen its cohesion and be a key player in the international political context. given the importance of a strong and stable eu-un relationship for un activities, the eu must be on all fronts to strengthen the international criminal justice system, ensure greater protection and recognition of human rights, promote a culture of democracy and the rule of law, and take a leading role on climate issues by supporting biodiversity and climate protection in developing countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendations addressed to the european council by the european parliament at the 67th session of the united nations general assembly, as i agree with their content, in particular with regard to the recommendation to strengthen the coherence and visibility of the european union as a global actor in the un, meeting the expectations of un members regarding the eu's ability to act and deliver results in a timely manner.
in writing. - this report contains a proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the 67th session of the united nations general assembly. the eu is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the aim is to further enhance the eu's role in this international organisation, either by increasing the representation of specialised agencies in its institutions or by developing stronger public diplomacy. in addition, the themes of maintaining and consolidating global peace and human rights are also focused. the first is to promote the role of mediation and to strengthen the international criminal justice system. as regards human rights, it is expected that there will be a greater effort at international level to ensure that all human rights agreed under the un conventions are considered to be universal, indivisible, interdependent and interrelated. finally, it calls for greater integration of eu development policies at all levels, with due regard for both human rights and environmental protection. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − in the document adopted today, the european parliament addresses a number of recommendations to the council on the european union's position in the united nations system, with particular attention to issues of global governance, peace and security, international justice, human rights, support for democracy, development and climate change, environmental protection and sustainability. it is also worth noting that the european parliament is urging the council to reach a common interpretation of the modalities of the european union's participation in the work of the general assembly and to move forward with a consensual reform of the security council in order to strengthen its legitimacy. for these reasons i voted in favour of the document in question.
in writing. - it is not possible to highlight all the important aspects of this report - and there are many - but we would like to underline the hypocrisy of those who claim to defend international law, the un and its role in global governance, while at the same time supporting its perversion and instrumentalization, in particular through the role of nato, the g8, the g20, the imf, the wto and other forums which aim to impose a setback on the democratic advance of international relations - represented by the creation of the un - and a world order over the domination of the great imperialist powers. once again, they hypocritically invoke respect for, promotion of and protection of the universality and indivisibility of human rights and the need to strengthen them at international level, when they violate them or are complicit in their violation every day, supporting the state terrorism of israel against the palestinian people and the occupation and killing of civilians in afghanistan, among many other examples. they support the responsibility to protect which can be expressed by the deepening of the processes of interference, aggression and violation of national sovereignty when the interests of the great world powers are at stake. and they defend a state legitimacy that the eu does not have, with the longstanding aspiration to obtain a seat on a larger un security council.
in writing. - i support this report because since 1971 the european union has been granting non-reciprocal trade preferences in the form of reduced duties for goods from developing countries imported into the european market through the system of generalised tariff preferences (gsp). in any case, it is particularly important to draw attention to the fact that the new legislative proposal aims to focus import preferences on the developing countries most in need. in practice, this means that preferences are withdrawn from certain countries, which increases the value of the preferences granted to those who remain covered by the scheme, a process which could be termed consolidation of preferences - this seems to me indeed the most appropriate approach.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european union should support developing countries which share a common development need and are at a similar level of economic development and which are not classified by the world bank as high-income or upper-middle-income countries or which have a very high or high human development index (hdi). the tariff preferences will certainly help those countries to reach higher levels of development. it will also make it possible to ensure greater consistency between the union's internal and external policies.
in writing. since 1971, the european union has been granting non-reciprocal trade preferences in the form of reduced duties for goods from developing countries imported into the european market through the generalised system of preferences (gsp). this approach is an integral part of its common commercial policy, in line with the general provisions governing the eu's external action. that is why, and because aid to developing countries in the form of reduced tariffs must cover as many countries as possible that need it, i advocate the maintenance of the calculation criteria which allow the beneficiaries to be identified, without change.
in writing. the united nations conference on trade and development (unctad) recommended in 1968 the creation of a generalised system of preferences (gsp) with the aim of the more developed countries supporting the developing countries by granting trade facilities. in 1971 the european community pioneered the implementation of a gsp which has become one of the main methods of cooperation in international trade to combat poverty. some 176 countries have benefited from this gsp, but it is necessary to revise it by introducing new rules, new conditions and more incentives. the report by mr fjellner deals with the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the application of a new system of generalised tariff preferences. i voted in favour of this proposal because, without jeopardising the eu's economic interests, it supports developing countries which defend the eu's values by encouraging their exports. although its scope is now wider for tradable products, the new programme (spg+) contains more demanding requirements such as the 27 assumptions on respect for human rights and environmental protection.
in writing. − the eu has been guaranteeing developing countries the possibility to export products to the eu without reciprocity for decades. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. this system of preferences has undergone developments and differentiations, seeking to benefit the least developed countries more. however, everything has been called into question by the subjection to the rules of the wto, one of the institutional pillars of neoliberalism on a global scale, and by the emergence of free trade as a means of colonizing the economies of developing countries. the new regulation now proposed will move the eu from the wider system of trade preferences between industrialized countries or blocs to the more restrictive system. many countries will be excluded from the system of non-reciprocal preferences, which is not without unacceptable pressures and blackmail to force acceptance of free trade agreements, as is the case with ecuador. on the other hand, in the interests of the eu powers, benefits are being extended to some countries, which could have negative impacts in countries such as portugal, with a significant share of sensitive sectors such as textiles and clothing. we voted against it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this new legal gsp regime (general system of trade preferences for imports from developing countries) because it is a more balanced and more demanding regime than the current one. the main improvements are the halving of the number of beneficiary countries, concentrating benefits on the most deprived countries, and the more stringent requirements for gsp+, which is a more advantageous scheme. despite these positive aspects, i cannot but express my disagreement here with regard to the relaxation of the conditions for access to gsp+, which will allow large economies, such as pakistan, which is very competitive in some sectors, to access it (if the other conditions in the field of human rights and the rule of law are met), at the expense of the poorer countries and the european textile industry itself, and particularly the portuguese one.
in writing. the portuguese socialist delegation voted in favour of the new legal regime of the gsp (generalized system of trade preferences for imports from developing countries) because it is a more balanced and more demanding system than the one currently in force, firstly because it reduces by half the number of beneficiary countries, concentrating benefits on the most deprived countries, and also because it makes the requirements for benefiting from the gsp +, which is a more advantageous system, more demanding. this overall positive assessment does not, however, mean that the objections, which have been voiced from the outset, to the relaxation of the conditions for access to the gsp+ should be abandoned, which will allow large economies, such as pakistan, which is very competitive in some sectors, to access it (provided that the other conditions relating to human rights and the rule of law are met), at the expense of the poorer countries and the european textile industry itself. although the special safeguard clause for textiles and clothing, which the ep has obtained, allows for a satisfactory defence of european industry, we believe, as a matter of principle, that european generosity towards third countries cannot be at the expense of the economies of the least competitive countries in the union.
in writing. - as this is the first time that a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of a scheme of generalised tariff preferences has been adopted by the ordinary legislative procedure and in view of the major amendments proposed, i support the rapporteur's claim that it should be revised within five years of its entry into force and that it should be limited to a period of 10 years, as opposed to the indefinite period of validity proposed by the commission. this will indeed be a significant improvement on the current situation, and this period is sufficiently long to ensure stability and predictability for economic operators. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − since 1971, the european union has been granting non-reciprocal trade preferences in the form of duty reductions for goods from developing countries imported into the european market through the generalised system of preferences (gsp). the last scheme dates back to 2008 and it is now necessary to review it. this is the first time that this regulation will be subject to the ordinary legislative procedure following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the objective of this important trade instrument is to enable developing countries to participate more fully in international trade and thus generate additional export revenues to support income growth and the implementation of their own sustainable development and poverty reduction policy strategies. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − since 1971, the european union has granted non-reciprocal trade preferences in the form of duty reductions for goods from developing countries imported into the european market through the system of generalised preferences. the objective of this trade instrument is to enable developing countries to participate more fully in international trade and thereby generate additional export revenues to support income growth and the implementation of their own development policy and poverty reduction strategies. the proposal for a revision of this scheme provides for some important changes, including the reduction of beneficiaries to 80 countries, the exclusion of countries with an annual per capita income of more than usd 4000 for three consecutive years, the introduction of a grading system by product sector and the extension of the gsp+ to a greater number of countries. i support the proposed new architecture and have voted in favour of it in the european parliament.
in writing. - with the adoption of this regulation, the eu will move from a wider system of trade preferences between industrialized countries or blocs to a more restrictive system, which means that many countries will be excluded from the non-reciprocal preference system, which is not without unacceptable pressures and blackmail to force acceptance of free trade agreements. on the other hand, in the interests of the eu powers, benefits are being extended to some countries, which could have negative impacts in countries such as portugal, with a significant share of sensitive sectors such as textiles and clothing.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that, despite the austerity measures the commission intends to implement, great progress has been made, notably with regard to the non-obligatory reference of 0.5% of the deficit but only the stability and growth pact, the application of the multiclausel, where the social dialogue must be respected, the need for a thorough analysis of the procedures for macroeconomic imbalances and the obligation for the commission to ascertain the consequences of taxation, among other significant progress achieved by the socialists which ensure that austerity will not be unfair or as severe as proposed.
in writing. − the commission's proposals, which complete the economic governance package, aim to ensure that the conditions are met for enhanced surveillance and protection of states supported by financial assistance and/or threatened by difficulties or instability. the report draws lessons from the financial and sovereign debt crises that have hit europe and proposes solutions for stability and growth based on preventive measures that allow problems to be solved in advance rather than making up for errors that have already occurred. it is thus envisaged that when a member state is experiencing severe difficulties, it should have enhanced supervision (which will depend on the severity of the financial difficulties and the assistance granted to the countries) and everything should be done to avoid negative contagion to other economies. countries that fail to comply should also be guaranteed legal protection and have an adjustment programme which will be monitored by the commission and other competent bodies. i voted in favour of this report because it is a factor in strengthening stability and confidence in the euro area countries, which are key to a sustainable recovery and to laying the foundations for growth in europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the european economic governance (the so-called six-pack) adopted by the european parliament and the council in 2011 and because i believe that the serious economic and social situation in which some member states are currently found could have been avoided if early and specifically targeted action had been taken.
in writing. − the financial crisis has had serious consequences for financial stability and economic growth, contributing to a serious deterioration in the government deficit and the indebtedness of member states. unfortunately, the number of member states requiring assistance is increasing, and therefore there is an urgent need for increased supervision. it is a pity that this two-pack was not adopted earlier, because it would have been preferable to give priority to prevention with early and specifically targeted action that could avoid a state's indebtedness difficulties rather than to correction with strong austerity measures, which could have serious consequences for economic growth and job creation. in the context of the financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis that we face, we have to draw lessons and propose solutions. the proposal is another initiative to strengthen budgetary discipline, which is intended to complete the economic governance package and provides that a member state in difficulty should be subject to enhanced surveillance, helping it to ensure its rapid return to a situation of normality. since the intensity of economic surveillance should be proportionate and appropriate to the seriousness of the financial difficulties, there should be a guarantee of legal protection and monitoring by the commission.
in writing. − this proposal, which together with the regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down common provisions for the monitoring and evaluation of draft budgetary plans and for the correction of excessive deficits in the euro area member states, constitutes the so-called two-pack and strengthens the previously adopted economic governance package. this specific regulation aims to ensure the conditions for enhanced surveillance and protection of member states receiving financial assistance and/or threatened by difficulties or instability, using preventive measures to resolve problems in advance. another step in the right direction. more europe and greater integration, towards a common future and a path of economic and environmental growth and development, peace, prosperity and shared happiness, as it has been for the past 55 years. this is a reality which is not currently being grasped by the vast majority of european citizens, given the economic, financial and budgetary crisis in which we are living.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has forced member states (ms) to adopt restrictive measures on consumption, wage cuts and the raising of the retirement age. some eu member states were unable to recover from the crisis on their own and had to ask for financial assistance from the european institutions in order to obtain support from bodies such as the european stabilisation fund, the international monetary fund and the european central bank. the crisis is an octopus that threatens to spread its tentacles across several european countries. after ireland, greece and portugal, spain is next and italy hovers over. it is urgent to create mechanisms to prevent this progress, because we know that the consequences of the indebtedness of one member state can have repercussions on others and even on a world scale, since the effects of corrective measures are late. i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability in the euro area, which lays down new procedures, such as the strengthening of the commission's powers and the introduction of the qualified majority rule.
in writing. - this regulation is part of the so-called two-pack, which is intended to complement the previous six-pack, thus completing the legislative framework of the so-called economic governance. provisions are laid down for the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance of member states whose currency is the euro and which are experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability. what is amazing is the way in which it is assumed that it is transposing the provisions of the recent budgetary treaty into eu secondary legislation. it should be remembered that this treaty has not even been ratified yet and that it is, moreover, a legal aberration, a fact that has been outside the law of the eu itself, although it brings the institutions of the eu within it. the rapporteur considers that 'it is for the commission to take the necessary decisions, including the decision to place a member state under the enhanced surveillance procedure'. the intention, as in the case of the other report in this two-pack, is clear and self-evident: to further deepen control over the member states, in a line leading to the establishment of colonial-type relations. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. − with the vote on this report and that of ms elisa ferreira, parliament completes the package on european governance adopted at the end of 2011. the continuation of this crisis, which continues to afflict the whole of europe, requires the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance by the states to safeguard the stability of europe and especially of the euro zone. the adoption of these rules will strengthen the eu's power to intervene, allowing it to intervene when necessary and to have the most appropriate means at its disposal to do so.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree, in its broad outline, with the commission's proposal to provide that a member state whose currency is the euro should be subject to enhanced surveillance when it is affected or threatened by serious financial disturbances. these are measures to restore a normal situation quickly and to protect the other euro area member states against any negative consequences.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation on the economic and budgetary surveillance of member states experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability in the euro area is in the context of the financial and sovereign debt crisis currently facing the european union, drawing lessons from it and proposing possible solutions. the six-pack of legislative acts needs to be strengthened to ensure both financial stability and economic growth in the euro area. the aim is to ensure that a member state whose currency is the euro is subject to enhanced supervision when it is affected or threatened by serious financial disturbances, and to provide for a legal protection regime for a member state which is at risk of being in a prolonged state of default or default in the short term. the consequences of excessive indebtedness of states can be dramatic, both within these states and for the other member states of the european union. preventive action at an early stage is preferable to corrective measures that intervene late, perhaps too late, in the process.
in writing. - this report is part of the famous two pack in the field of economic governance. the report under discussion embodies the logic of the intergovernmental treaty which enshrines an ideological dogma and outlaws countercyclical policies in favour of a controversial and highly manipulable technical criterion of assessment. that is why i voted against it.
in writing. − in november 2011, the european commission presented a proposal to the european parliament and the council aimed at establishing provisions to strengthen economic and budgetary surveillance of euro area member states that are experiencing or threatened with serious difficulties with respect to their financial stability and/or that are receiving or are likely to receive external financial assistance. i agree with this report because i believe that there needs to be stronger supervision of the euro countries in order to prevent the difficulties of one member state with regard to its financial stability from spreading to the rest of the euro area and, more generally, to the whole of the union. i believe that the member states should inform the commission and the council in advance of their plans to issue public debt, so that the european commission can coordinate better and work towards a more coordinated economic policy. finally, i agree with the rapporteur that the structural funds should not be suspended in the period 2014-2020 if a member state does not comply with its adjustment programme, and that other economic and financial mechanisms should be adopted for this purpose.
in writing. - as in the ferreira report on the other component of this two pack, this report also proposes several amendments to include the need for member states to take growth and employment into account in their policies and actions. these intentions are dead letter when they are inserted into the logic of the policies in which this two pack is inserted - the perpetuation of austerity policies through cuts in public investment, public services, cuts in wages and social protection, promotion of privatizations - which are precisely the opposite of the necessary growth of employment and the economy. on the other hand, the so-called enhanced surveillance procedure is nothing more than an anti-democratic blow against the institutions of national sovereignty and democratically elected, which are thus no longer able to decide on such important economic instruments as budgetary policy.
in writing. - i approve this report and welcome the introduction of a new chapter entitled 'establishing a roadmap for enhanced policy coordination, a growth facility and a framework to enhance debt issuance'. this chapter calls for the commission to submit a proposal for the countercyclical 1% of gdp instrument to boost growth, a report setting out a roadmap for the establishment of euro area stability actions, the immediate establishment of the requirement for member states to report ex ante on the issuance of their public debt and the establishment of the proposal for the redemption fund through a co-decision regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the amendments to the text proposed by the committee which establishes common provisions for the monitoring and evaluation of draft budgetary plans and for the correction of the excessive deficit of the euro area member states.
in writing. − this report sets out measures to ensure greater coordination of the budgetary policies of the member states. it therefore stresses the need for sound public finances and financial stability as a means of strengthening price stability and sustainable and strong growth in order to achieve the union's objectives of sustainable growth and employment. ensuring that the economic policies of certain member states do not adversely affect the others and the smooth functioning of economic and monetary union is the priority identified and fully supported. the report is overall positive and consensual in its importance for the euro area and the union as a whole. i would just point out that some issues such as the mutualisation of european debt and concrete measures to promote investment and growth in europe, although fundamental, should be discussed in the context of the documents produced for this purpose and not in the context of this report. the two-pack adopted today represents one of the basic pillars for building economic and financial stability in europe, the foundation of a new policy generating prosperity and growth in the euro area and the european union as a whole.
in writing. the report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down common provisions for the monitoring and evaluation of draft budgetary plans and for the correction of excessive deficits in the euro area member states. the concern of the member states for budgetary discipline and the correction of excessive deficits has led to a restraint on consumption and, consequently, to the bankruptcy of many companies, the loss of tax revenues, the increase in unemployment and, necessarily, the emergence of new poverty situations. i voted in favour of this report because, in addition to the reinforced surveillance which aims to prevent member states from becoming over-indebted and the contagion of the disease by monitoring and evaluating their plans, prevention is better than cure, even for the late effects of the measures adopted, points to the need to change the direction of the agenda, which has so far been oriented towards austerity, in order to promote economic growth and job creation. i therefore welcome the creation of eurobonds, the defence of an ambitious investment plan that is in line with eu 2020 and the strengthening of the community method that stimulates economic growth that is smart, sustainable and inclusive.
in writing. - this regulation is part of the so-called two-pack, which is intended to complement the previous six-pack, thus completing the legislative framework of the so-called economic governance. the aim is to control the budgetary and economic policies of the member states, while continuing the unacceptable draining of national sovereignty institutions. we are faced with an unusual and profoundly undemocratic concentration of economic and political power in the eu institutions, particularly in the commission. the usual protagonists are backing it: the right and the social democrats. the latter, with this report, is once again making its usual attempt to put the word 'growth' on policies and strategies which are themselves the negation of growth, but above all the negation of any prospect of sovereign, just and sustainable development. the proposals for the stability bonds (in the form already proposed by the commission, even adopting the same designation) and the rescue fund are, in this context, more propaganda than proposals with practical effect. at least, a practical effect other than to further elaborate the original commission proposal in terms of the obligations which the member states have to fulfil in relation to their budgetary procedures. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − by voting on this report and on the report by mr jean paul gauzès, parliament completes the package on european governance adopted at the end of 2011. the continuation of this crisis, which continues to afflict the whole of europe, requires the strengthening of economic and budgetary surveillance by the states, in order to safeguard the stability of europe and especially of the euro zone. the adoption of these rules will strengthen the eu's power to intervene, allowing it to intervene when necessary and to have the most appropriate means at its disposal to do so.
in writing. - i would like to commend the rapporteur for the commitment and dedication she has shown in implementing this report, seeking consensus at 27 but at the same time protecting the interests of her country of origin. the work done was necessary work, and there are a number of proposed measures which must now be implemented urgently and which we all hope will make a decisive contribution to improving the economic situation throughout the eu.
in writing. the report makes timid declarations of intent on a roadmap for the hypothetical introduction of eurobonds. i support these aspects of the proposal but at this rate of implementation they will clearly be insufficient to provide an alternative to austerity-based adjustment programmes. for these reasons i voted against.
in writing. − in november 2011, the european commission presented a proposal to the european parliament and the council with the aim of establishing provisions to improve the monitoring of fiscal policies in the euro area that are complementary to the measures already set out in the european semester, a system of multilateral surveillance of fiscal policies and a procedure for correcting a member state's excessive deficit. i agree with this report because i believe that it is necessary to strengthen the conditions for price stability and to promote increased financial stability which contributes to the achievement of the union's objectives in terms of growth and employment. i believe that it will be good to establish a common budgetary timetable between the euro area member states which will lead to increased synergies, facilitate the coordination of economic and financial policies and enable the european commission to draw up recommendations with a view to eliminating existing macroeconomic imbalances.
in writing. the commission's original proposal follows on from the previous six-pack and further strengthens economic governance. it is also an attempt by the european commission to incorporate the assumptions of the treaty on budgetary discipline into eu secondary legislation. this is a major infringement of community law, since the budgetary treaty was signed outside the eu's laws and is therefore not enshrined in eu law. but this setback does not seem to bother the ec or the majority of the ep. the aim is to ensure compatibility between fiscal policies and the procedures for preventing and correcting excessive macroeconomic imbalances through closer monitoring of national reform programmes. in other words, what is being depicted here is the continuation of the so-called austerity policies with all that this implies - cuts in public investment, public services, wage cuts, privatisations - in addition to the establishment of mechanisms that transfer to supranational institutions matters of budgetary policy which should be the exclusive competence of the member states and their sovereign bodies. the instruments for the com munication of debt proposed attempt to conceal the obvious blackmail and the unacceptable attacks on democracy contained in this package.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that its objective is to extend the geographical scope of the operations of the central bank for reconstruction and development to the countries located south and west of the mediterranean basin and jordan. this report is a response that the european union must have to the arab spring, so as to make it easier for the region to move towards stable and reliable democratic systems. the european union's objective of expressing itself as a bastion of peace and human rights must be applied in cases like this.
in writing. − the ebrd was set up to support the development of market economies from central europe to central asia following the widespread collapse of communist regimes. the ebrd is currently continuing its work to promote the transition to market economies, private enterprise and entrepreneurship in the countries of central and eastern europe, and to contribute to their economic progress and reconstruction. the bank's activities are now to be extended to the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean. in the light of the events in 2011 in the mediterranean partner countries, the commission and the high representative presented the eu's political and economic support to the region, which envisaged the possibility of extending the mandate of the ebrd to the southern neighbourhood countries, drawing on its extensive experience in promoting the transition to market economies. the european parliament and the g8 group have also invited the ebrd to amend its statute in order to be able to participate in this financial assistance process. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the experience of the ebrd can be put to use in the transition of these mediterranean countries by promoting the principles of multiparty democracy, pluralism and the market economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the amendments to the text proposed by the commission to the agreement establishing the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), which extend the geographical scope of the ebrd's operations to the south and east of the mediterranean.
in writing. - last november, in my report on the review of the european neighbourhood policy (enp), (unanimously approved in this house), i stated that: appreciates the work carried out by the european investment bank [...] and the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) [...]; supports the amendment of the ebrd's statutes so that the countries of the southern neighbourhood are also eligible for aid, while seeking to establish between the eib and the ebrd [...] a fruitful relationship of cooperation, not competition. in my first report on the revision of the enp-southern dimension, dated 7 april 2011 (also adopted unanimously), we called on the ebrd to amend its statute in order to be able to participate in the financial assistance to these countries, as evidenced by the text of the resolution adopted today (recital 1-a). moreover, as president of the delegation for relations with the countries of the maghreb, i have also advocated this extension of powers in various fora, inside and outside the union. it is therefore with great personal satisfaction and with the pleasure of having actively and positively contributed to making this extension of the mandate of the ebrd to the countries of the southern neighbourhood (including jordan) a reality that i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the report aims to extend the remit of the european bank for reconstruction and development to the southern and eastern mediterranean regions. it should be recalled that when the ebrd was set up in 1990, its geographical boundaries were the countries of the former soviet bloc. however, in view of the latest developments following the arab spring, the union considered that the ebrd should also be able to operate in this area. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur on his work and i fully agree with his position on pursuing projects which are aimed at energy efficiency and which are socially inclusive, always having respect for human rights as a cornerstone.
in writing. − the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd), established in 1991, is the eu's first financial institution and was set up to support europe's economic development following the break-up of the soviet union. the ebrd mainly supports the development of the local sector: small and medium-sized enterprises, private individuals, municipalities, regional cooperation, innovation, job creation, energy, green projects, etc. this report, by mr binev, is on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision amending the ebrd constituent agreement to extend the geographical scope of the bank's operations to the south and east of the mediterranean. initially intended to support the countries of central and eastern europe, it is now intended, in the wake of the so-called arab spring, to extend its geographical area of influence to the countries of the southern and eastern shores of the mediterranean, including jordan, in order to support these countries in their transition to open market economies and in promoting private initiative. i agree with this enlargement and welcome it, as i said when the proposal to increase the ebrd's share capital from eur 20 billion to eur 30 billion was approved.
in writing. the aim of the commission proposal is to extend the scope of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) to the countries south and east of the mediterranean and jordan, in order to provide financial assistance to these countries. since its establishment in 1990, the ebrd has been assisting the countries of central and eastern europe in their transition to market economies and promoting private initiative and entrepreneurship. the ebrd has thus been instrumental in serving this desire: the expansion and consolidation of capitalist production relations in europe. now, in the wake of the arab spring, an unequivocal political response from the union is called for. and the commission has put forward this proposal, which is therefore part of the political response that is required. we support the establishment of cooperation relations and development aid measures with the countries south of and east of the mediterranean. these could include facilitating access to sources of finance that can support development-enhancing investments. but we are not ignoring the more general context (and this is evident in this report) of attempts to interfere politically and economically by the eu in these countries (through the ebrd) and to open doors to eu multinationals to new and promising markets.
in writing. − the recent events and social upheavals affecting the african and asian countries of the mediterranean basin make it necessary for the european union to support them, and adequate support for these countries is crucial as they play an important role not only in terms of political stability but also in terms of trade. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which seeks to extend the activities of the european bank for reconstruction and development to the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean.
in writing. − putting the ebrd's experience to use in the transition of the mediterranean countries, promoting the principles of multiparty democracy, pluralism and market economy seems to be a solution for the eu to contribute to the progress and economic reconstruction of these countries. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the commission in its report broadly supports the extension of the geographical scope of operations of the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) to the south and east of the mediterranean in order to encourage the transition of the countries in this region to market economies and pluralist societies. first, the bank is expected to foster the transition to market economies and to promote private initiative and entrepreneurship in countries that commit to respecting the principles of multiparty democracy, pluralism and market economy, while contributing to the economic progress and reconstruction of those countries. the commission is also calling for greater action in the field of energy efficiency, the fight against poverty and the protection of human rights, so as to achieve greater social cohesion. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) aims to foster the transition to market economies and to promote private initiative and entrepreneurship in the countries of central and eastern europe that commit themselves to respecting the principles of multiparty democracy, pluralism and market economy, while contributing to the economic progress and reconstruction of these countries. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the ebrd should now have a role in the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean similar to that which it currently has in the countries of central and eastern europe. the aim is to support more countries in their efforts to transition to open and market-oriented economies and to promote private and entrepreneurial initiative. i believe that the extension of the ebrd's activities is a symbol of the support that the european union gives to the transition of countries to a more democratic and pluralistic market economy. however, i believe that before any intervention is undertaken, the ebrd should carry out a detailed technical assessment of the economic and political conditions in the country concerned in order to maximise the financial assistance it will make available.
in writing. the commission's proposal aims to extend the scope of the ebrd's intervention to the countries south and east of the mediterranean and jordan in order to provide financial assistance to these countries after the so-called arab spring, stating that this means strong eu political and economic support for the region. we advocate that this support be implemented in the framework of solidarity cooperation, in which the objectives are those of an autonomous and sovereign development of the countries supported and not of political interference by the eu in these countries. in this respect, we do not support the premises of the report that the political and economic conditions of the country concerned should be assessed in detail, including possible gaps in the transition process in relation to the country's commitment to the principles of multiparty democracy, pluralism and market economy.
in writing. - i support this report because it stresses that the eu budget is an investment budget with a strong leverage effect, since 94% of its appropriations are intended to stimulate economic growth and employment and as such is a powerful instrument to increase strategic investment with european added value and to put the european economy back on track. today the eu budget has an even more fundamental role, as it can help to be an important complement to the budgets of national recovery policies on the road to consolidation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the multiannual financial framework and own resources because i believe that only with a sound community budget can europe overcome the crisis and achieve the objectives of growth and employment. i consider it necessary that an agreement on the next multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 also provides for a reform of the own resources system to include a financial transaction tax.
in writing. − taking due account of the union's current financial, economic and social situation, there is a growing need for the institutions to respond with responsibility and restraint to the demands of the very serious situation we are facing and to use rigorous budgetary management processes to achieve savings. it should be noted, however, that the union budget is an important lever for the european economy, since 94% of the appropriations are used to stimulate the economy and create jobs, and is therefore essential for the much needed revival of the european economy, in parallel with the fiscal consolidation carried out by the member states. it is also essential to improve the use of community funds, so that they are managed more efficiently and waste less.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled following the statements by the representatives of the council and the commission pursuant to rule 110 (2), by the political groups of the ppe, s&d, alde, greens/efa and gue/ngl, deals with the multiannual financial framework and own resources. on 8 june 2011, the european parliament (ep), in pursuance of the europe 2020 strategy, adopted a resolution entitled 'investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework (mff) for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe'. part four, entitled 'organization and structure of the financial framework: a framework to reflect priorities', refers to the structure of the next mff which should facilitate continuity of planning and flexibility within and between headings and avoid the shortcomings of the current mff, in particular as regards shortcomings in categories 1a, competitiveness for growth and jobs, 3b, citizenship, and 4, external relations. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it directs the next mff towards growth and employment, through various directives and initiatives such as the six-pack and the two-pack, and it proposes a genuine system of own resources through the creation of a financial transaction tax.
in writing. - this resolution insists that 'the political positions agreed by the european council must be negotiated between parliament and the council (...) before the council formally submits its proposals, with a view to obtaining parliament's approval of the regulation on the multiannual financial framework'. it is the usual exercise of parliament, which is to prove its existence, even if it then resigns itself to its also usual role as a mere sounding board for the council. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. reiterates its faith in the neoliberal eu2020 strategy, which we reject and oppose; support and reiterate the political priorities of the european parliament's report on the financial perspectives 2014-2020, which we voted against; the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council on the basis of a proposal from the commission. the commission is also proposing to reduce the contributions of the member states based on their gni by 40% by 2020, which we consider unacceptable because it undermines the redistributive role of the budget. more than enough reasons for our vote against.
in writing. - i support this resolution because we cannot allow european governments to completely exclude parliament from the negotiations on the financial perspectives 2014 to 2020. in this unprecedented crisis, when it is essential to affirm solidarity, the european council responds with one voice: austerity. parliament in this resolution defends its full right to participate in the negotiations; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. parliament reiterates its desire to put an end to the bargaining of the big states and the shameful correction and rebate mechanisms of britain and others. we need a financial transaction tax that will force those who caused the crisis to start paying it. what is not needed is austerity, which in this declaration is euphemistically called fiscal consolidation. what is not needed is a reduction in the member states' share of the european budget. what is needed is more and better europe, more solidarity.
in writing. − the european union has always aimed to achieve the best possible living conditions for its 500 million citizens. for this to happen, we need a budget that is innovative and that is concerned with the new realities of globalisation. in the aftermath of the crisis, governments, businesses and households in europe are more sensitive to how their money is spent. the european union, through the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, has to do the same, choosing carefully where to cut and where to invest for future growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i also believe that the objectives and policies of the multiannual financial framework should be agreed before the amounts are entered and that parliament and the council should start genuine negotiations on all aspects of the multiannual financial framework before the amounts are fixed and the final adjustments to the overall package of the multiannual financial framework are made.
in writing. - i support this resolution because we cannot allow european governments to completely exclude parliament from the negotiations on the financial perspectives 2014 to 2020. in this unprecedented crisis, when it is essential to affirm solidarity, the european council responds with one voice: austerity. parliament in this resolution defends its full right to participate in the negotiations; the commission's proposal is to be submitted to the council for approval. parliament reiterates its desire to put an end to the bargaining of the big states and the shameful correction and rebate mechanisms of britain and others. we need a financial transaction tax that will force those who caused the crisis to start paying it. what is not needed is austerity, which in this declaration is euphemistically called fiscal consolidation. what is not needed is a reduction in the member states' share of the european budget. what is needed is more and better europe, more solidarity.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union budget (2014-2020) continues to be rigorous. the overall amount proposed for the next seven years is eur 1.025 billion in commitment appropriations (1.05% of eu gni) and eur 972.2 billion (1% of eu gni) in payment appropriations. it should be noted that the budget is geared towards the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and that some 94% of the financial appropriations are directed towards supporting growth and employment, with particular emphasis on cohesion policies (eur 336 billion) and research and innovation (eur 80 billion). the connecting europe facility (eur 50 billion) will be extremely important for financing crossborder projects in the energy, transport and information technology sectors, and the erasmus for all proposal (eur 19 billion) demonstrates that the european union is concerned about the future of the new generations. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the adoption of new own resources (vat and financial transaction tax) which will make it possible to reduce by 40% by 2020 the percentage of member states' contributions to the european budget.
in writing. - the resolution is intended to state that the political positions agreed by the european council must be negotiated between parliament and the council (...) before the council formally submits its proposals, with a view to obtaining parliament's approval of the regulation on the multiannual financial framework. while this position may be important, we cannot but disagree with the establishment of the sure report as a basis for negotiation (which proposed the freezing of the community budget until 2020), with the reform of the own resources system with a view to reducing national contributions to the community budget, the legitimization of fiscal consolidation (austerity policies) and the recommendation of support for strategy 2020 as one of the ways out of the crisis.
in writing. the european union has a small budget, but a big impact on european citizens. the proposal for a multiannual budget for 2014-2020 responds to today's concerns but also to tomorrow's needs, by focusing on priority funding at eu level that generates real added value. i voted against this resolution because, unlike the rapporteur, i believe that the union budget fulfils the objective it was originally set to contribute to greater economic growth and job creation. i also support the proposals for own resources put forward by the european commission, in particular the financial transaction tax and the capital from vat.
in writing. - the multiannual financial framework shows a decrease in the amounts for the individual development of the regions (cohesion policy) but an increase in the overall funds for economic, social and territorial cohesion, due to the creation of the connecting europe facility. on the contrary, there has been a reduction in the funds allocated to the cap (agriculture and rural development), demonstrating that the european union's focus is on the economy of the first sector. i agree with the rapporteur that the eu budget is an investment budget with a strong leverage effect and can be a very powerful tool for increasing strategic investments with high european added value, in line with an approach to growth and job creation. i have voted against this motion for a resolution, however, because i disagree with the rapporteur on the own resources. i welcome the proposals for a financial transaction tax and a new eu own resource from vat.
in writing. - i approve this resolution on the european union's negotiations with japan, considering that the commission has insufficient reason to consider the opening of negotiations valid, simply on the basis of a report containing the level of ambition of both parties. i agree with the majority of members of the european parliament that we should not approve the opening of negotiations, considering that the commission's evaluation exercise in this process is not sufficient. i therefore propose that the council does not authorize the opening of trade negotiations until the european parliament has declared its formal position on a mandate proposed for negotiation on the basis of a report from the commission responsible, thus bringing the european union into line with the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. − the japanese authorities have been slow to negotiate and there have been repeated doubts about their willingness to reach a lasting agreement with the european union in the near future. i believe that this future agreement is very important for both sides and that the union should therefore do everything in its power to promote concrete progress on this issue. i think, however, that parliament cannot be left out of this process and its views on it ignored.
in writing. the resolution, which follows a statement by the commission, focuses on the negotiations between the european union (eu) and japan on a free trade agreement. the excellent relations between the eu and japan are very important to both sides. in fact, japan is the eu's sixth largest trading partner (€49 billion) and the eu is japan's third largest trading partner (€69 billion). given the trade deficit at the expense of the eu, it is essential that japan removes many of the obstacles it places in the way of european imports, notably non-tariff barriers, the non-opening of public tenders to eu companies, which is detrimental to our small and medium-sized enterprises, and protectionism to the japanese car industry. if there is no progress in the negotiations or if the results are not satisfactory, they should be terminated. i voted in favour of a new free trade agreement, but it is essential that the final result be mutually beneficial and not favourable to one side only, namely japan.
in writing. - the european parliament, more papist than the pope, has been asking the european commission to open negotiations with japan with a view to establishing a free trade agreement with that country. the european commission, in response to these requests, asked japan to meet certain conditions for opening up its market before the negotiations began. at the end of may, eu and japanese representatives agreed in brussels on a first definition of the scope and scope of the negotiations. the commission is now preparing to propose to the council a mandate giving it the green light for these negotiations. this resolution merely asks the council not to take a position on a negotiating mandate until parliament has defined its own position. but it is not difficult to imagine what that position will be. time will show more clearly the interests and contradictions at stake in this process. but in this case, unlike in other countries, the interests of the eu powers and their economic groups (such as the german automobile industry) may find in japan an undesirable competitor rather than good market opportunities. a factor which will certainly weigh on the evolution and outcome of the process.
in writing. − in 2010, the total amount of bilateral trade between the eu and japan, the world's third largest economy in terms of gdp, amounted to €120 billion; japan is the sixth largest trading partner for the eu and the eu is japan's third largest trading partner. however, there is a great deal of untapped trade potential and therefore a strong determination is needed to strengthen eu-japan trade relations by focusing on the removal of non-tariff barriers to trade and investment, including numerous restrictive rules and regulatory measures for european companies to access the japanese market. in this sense, the eu-japan fta has great potential to be beneficial for both economies. to this end, the eu should in due course make the necessary suggestions to the commission on the conditions which the commission considers necessary to include in the agreement to be negotiated.
in writing. - i abstained on the motion asking the council not to authorize the opening of trade negotiations with japan because it seems to me that it may have counterproductive effects and may be against the interests of parliament itself. in fact, if the commission has already announced that it will ask the council for a mandate, the council is more likely to ignore parliament's request and grant it, not least because there is a political commitment to do so. if this happens, parliament will not only be disregarded by the council, but it will also lose the opportunity it now had to tell the commission and the council in advance what substantive conditions parliament considers should be included in the negotiating mandate, which would then give it the authority to react if these conditions were not met (including the threat of not giving final assent to the treaty).
in writing. − at the 20th eu-japan summit, held on 28 may 2011 in brussels, summit leaders decided that the two sides would start talks to define the scope and level of ambition of these negotiations. to this end, a scoping group was set up to assess the common understanding on the scope and level of ambition of potential trade negotiations between japan and the eu. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution calling on the council not to authorize the opening of trade negotiations until parliament has given its opinion on the proposed negotiating mandate on the basis of a report from the committee responsible.
in writing. - the proposal for a resolution on trade negotiations between the eu and japan with a view to closer economic integration between these two strategic trading partners. following the 20th eu-japan summit held on 28 may 2011 in brussels, the leaders of the summit decided that the two sides would enter into talks to define the scope and level of ambition of those negotiations, which are mainly about the removal of regulatory barriers to trade by japan. since these negotiations could be an excellent window of opportunity for the eu, i voted in favour.
in writing. − the elimination of trade barriers is an essential condition for the success of any trade relationship between the two partners and is of particular importance in the launch of trade negotiations between the european union and japan. given that the opening of talks on trade negotiations was agreed at the brussels summit on 28 may 2011, parliament, with my support, now calls on the council not to open the negotiations until parliament has stated its position on the mandate.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that after the democratic elections, the president and the prime minister elected by universal suffrage were forced to evacuate the country following a coup d'état. i believe that the european union should give a clear signal of zero tolerance to attacks on democracy. the european union must intervene to demobilize the military and establish democracy, and this must be done in collaboration with international partners.
in writing. − on 12 april 2012, members of the armed forces of guinea-bissau seized power by force and arrested the interim president and the prime minister. this illegitimate military coup took place the day before the start of the electoral campaign for the second round of the presidential elections and was widely condemned by the international community. for several decades, guinea-bissau has been experiencing political instability, leading the country into a deep political, governance and humanitarian crisis. this resolution, which i supported, strongly condemns the illegitimate seizure of power by the armed forces of guinea-bissau and calls for the immediate restoration of constitutional order and the rule of law. it calls for the immediate release of all public officials and other citizens held by the rebel military and for an end to violence, looting and intimidation. supports the eu's willingness to cooperate with the west african states and their regional and international partners with a view to establishing an effective partnership contributing to the long-term pacification and stabilisation of guinea-bissau.
in writing. - on 12 april this year, a military force seized power illegitimately and by force in the republic of guinea-bissau, on the eve of the electoral campaign for the second round of presidential elections, deepening the political instability in the country and leading it to a deep crisis of governance with severe social, economic and humanitarian consequences for its citizens. i condemn in the strongest terms this illegitimate seizure of power by the military forces, which has plunged the country and its institutions into unprecedented instability, calling into question the democratic rule of law, and i condemn the interference of the military in political power and in the free choice of the legitimate representatives of the guinean people. it is essential that the european union, the united nations and the entire international community coordinate their efforts to bring normalcy and peace to guinea, so that constitutional order, the rule of law, the freedoms and fundamental rights of the guinean people and the democratic and sustainable development of the country can be restored. the settlement of the dispute should, as far as possible, be carried out by peaceful means, with the minimum of consequences for the well-being of citizens and without infringement of their guarantees and freedoms.
in writing. - on 12 april, the guinean military carried out a military coup which deposed the president of the republic and the prime minister. this joint motion for a resolution, tabled following a statement by the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, replaces the motions for resolutions tabled by the following political groups: epp, ecr, alde, s&d, gue/ngl and greens/efa, on the military coup in guinea-bissau. first of all, i would like to express my solidarity with the suffering people of guinea-bissau, who have been tormented for years by the social and political instability that has cyclically plunged the country into civil war. the international community, and in particular the european union (eu), cannot remain indifferent to the situation in this country where the military are dismissing the legitimate representatives of the people, committing clear violations of human rights and allowing looting and drug trafficking. the eu maintains a partnership agreement with guinea-bissau, and i urge the european authorities to do everything possible to ensure that democratic legality is restored as soon as possible, that political prisoners are released, that the elected representatives are allowed to return and that the electoral process is resumed.
in writing. the resolution strongly condemns the military coup in guinea-bissau and sets out important principles and guidelines for overcoming the current situation: rejection of any attempt to legitimise the coup. it calls for the restoration of constitutional order and the completion of the electoral process interrupted by the coup, for the physical integrity of all public officials and other citizens subject to arbitrary detention and persecution to be respected, for the release of detainees and for an end to violence, looting and intimidation. in addition to all this, we also welcome the inclusion of the paragraph on the rejection of any external exploitation of the present situation which would jeopardize the sovereignty of the guinean people and the territorial integrity and independence of guinea-bissau, which we have proposed. but we reject the insistence of the other groups that some points should be included in the resolution which could conflict with this principle, in particular by opening the door to external interference in the country. the call for urgent aid measures to deal with the humanitarian situation in the country is also important. any mission in the country, whether in the framework of the pflp or other organisations, should have a clear and precise un mandate to support the sovereign institutions of the country, which respects its sovereign will, international law and the un charter.
in writing. - it is the eu's obligation to condemn the acts of the military in guinea-bissau, demanding the restoration of the democratically elected sovereign bodies and the resumption of the electoral process which was under way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution on guinea-bissau, in which i stress the call for the international community to take immediate concrete and appropriate aid measures in view of the humanitarian situation in guinea-bissau. in particular, the internally displaced persons and refugees are mentioned, as is the risk of epidemics and the danger to the food security and health of the guinean people.
in writing. the current political crisis in guinea-bissau arises from the seizure of power by force in guinea-bissau and the subsequent arrest of the interim president, raimundo pereira, and the prime minister, carlos gomes júnior. as is well known, the military leaders of guinea-bissau have repeatedly and intolerably interfered in the political life of the country, and this interference has had a very negative impact on the process of establishing democracy and the rule of law, as well as on the security of the population and economic development. the eu condemns this unconstitutional seizure of power by the guinea-bissau armed forces and calls on the international community to exert all the necessary influence to overcome this situation. this, of course, without any external exploitation of the present situation which would call into question the sovereignty of the guinean people and the territorial integrity and independence of guinea-bissau. the eu and the international community must be more committed if a democratic and stable state is to be built in guinea-bissau.
in writing. the european parliament condemned the military coup in guinea-bissau on 12 april and called for the freedom and respect for the physical integrity of all citizens detained by the military rebels. i voted in favour of this parliament resolution condemning the violent repression of peaceful demonstrations, urging all those involved to stop their illegal and violent actions immediately and also calling for the restoration of order, including through the completion of the electoral process.
in writing. - this resolution strongly condemns the military coup in guinea-bissau. it comes with a set of important principles and guidelines to help move beyond the current situation, such as: the refusal of any attempt to legitimize the coup and to recognize any self-proclaimed military command, national transitional council or transitional government, the advocacy of the restoration of constitutional order and the completion of the electoral process interrupted by the coup, respect for the physical integrity of all public officials and other citizens subject to arbitrary detention and persecution, the release of detainees and an end to violence, looting and intimidation. we welcome the inclusion of the paragraph on the rejection of any external exploitation of the present situation which would jeopardize the sovereignty of the guinean people and the territorial integrity and independence of guinea-bissau, which we have proposed. we reject the insistence of the other groups to include in the resolution some points which may conflict with this principle, in particular by opening the door to external interference in the country through the esdp. any mission in the country, within the framework of the pflp or other organisations, should have a clear and precise un mandate to support the sovereign institutions of the country, which respects the sovereign will of these institutions, international law and the un charter.
in writing. - i approve this report, expressing my extreme concern at the escalation of hostilities between sudan and south sudan due to the unresolved issue of post-separation issues, including the sharing of economic resources such as oil. the european union should work closely with regional and global actors to ensure the smooth implementation of the un resolution calling for an end to hostilities between sudan and south sudan and to pave the way for a comprehensive resolution to resolve the problems of territorial separation.
in writing. the region now occupied by the states of sudan and south sudan has been a martyrdom for many years, and is a real humanitarian disaster. the escalation of the conflict between the two states raises fears of a return to the same scale of violence and violations of freedom, democracy and the human rights of their populations. the european union must be at the forefront of efforts to prevent such an outcome and must ensure that both states take account of the interests of their peoples and come to terms with each other in order to ensure their survival and the peace that has been as rare as it is desirable. the european parliament, on the initiative of a member of my party, awarded the 2007 sakharov prize to salih mahmoud osman, who has revealed firsthand the tragedy in darfur and throughout the country. perhaps you'll be advised that we can take you in one more time and hear you again about what's going on there. we know what the consequences of the prolonged western silence have been for the sudanese. we owe them a renewed attention and a greater capacity for action today.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution, tabled following a statement by the commission vice-president, catherine ashton, replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by various political groups, deals with the situation in sudan and south sudan. for years, these people lived through a civil war that left thousands and thousands dead and devastated the country. the european union (eu), seeking to contribute to peace in the oil-rich region, supported the independence process of the two countries. however, it has not been possible to establish peace, let alone create the conditions for the start of the process of transition to democracy. the eu remains committed to the peace process, having mobilised €285 million of special funds to support south sudan. however, human rights violations continue with south sudan bombing sudan. despite the african union (au) peace council calling for the withdrawal of troops from both sides, this recommendation was not heeded. i urge the parties to accept the roadmap for peace endorsed by the au peace council and adopted by the un security council (resolution 2046 of 2 may 2012).
in writing. - we have always warned of the dangers of supporting the referendum in south sudan. it's good to remember. it was encouraged and funded by the eu (including the majority of this parliament), the us and the un. we warned that support for the destruction of the unity of the country could lead to an escalation of confrontation and a climate of destabilization between the two sides, with potential effects for the entire region. unfortunately, the reality confirms this warning, with the return of the conflict between north and south over the definition of borders. the us and its allies took advantage of the conflict that existed until 2005, exacerbating poverty, social injustices, ethnic and religious differences (between the arab-muslim north and the african-christian south) and pushed the peoples to secede, for reasons of their own geostrategic interest and exploitation of the considerable oil reserves and various important minerals in the south. we advocate a peaceful political solution to the conflict, free from external interference, supporting dialogue between the parties and mutually acceptable solutions to the problem of defining borders and sharing oil revenues. the deployment of more un forces, as this resolution advocates, and their permanent presence may not be the necessary contribution to a genuine process of unity and peace for this region.
in writing. - any armed conflict must be duly condemned by the eu. in this particular case, it is already an open confrontation with obvious consequences affecting the populations, especially the most vulnerable, such as women, the elderly and children. a solution must be found quickly to put an end to this conflict.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the international community to honour the funding commitments to the region and in particular to help address the serious shortages of food aid, emergency shelter and protection, paying particular attention to the food security situation and taking action if the situation worsens.
in writing. − south sudan officially became an independent state on 1 january 2012. however, the lack of agreement on a transitional economic regime between the two countries, including on the use of oil, led to the seizure of south sudanese oil by khartoum and the decision by south sudan to suspend oil production, which has contributed greatly to the current crisis. it is therefore of the utmost importance that these two countries begin to show their political will to pursue the path of peace by resolving the security issues on both sides within the framework of the joint political and security mechanism, starting with the creation of a secure demilitarised zone along the border and the unconditional withdrawal of all their armed forces. with a view to ensuring long-term stability in the region, a new and unified global international strategy is required, in which the eu plays a role alongside other global and regional actors, including through financing for the region, in order to address the serious shortcomings in food aid, emergency shelter and protection.
in writing. − the independence of the republic of south sudan, declared on 9 july 2011 following a referendum in the country, did not bring the desired end to tensions between the two countries. the continuing conflicts on both sides have a dramatic impact on the possibility of implementing a genuine rule of law. despite the roadmap adopted by the african union and the un for the two countries, the recent conflicts in the oil-rich town of heglig have reignited old fears as both sides claim sovereignty over the territory. both countries have high rates of poverty and the worst development rates in the world. to look after the welfare of the populations, it is necessary to reach an agreement between the two. here the eu must work together with the african partners in the african union and the un. however, the authorities in sudan and south sudan must be open to dialogue and a full ceasefire.
in writing. - we have always warned of the dangers of supporting the referendum in the then southern region of sudan, which was encouraged and financed by the eu, the us and the un and by the majority of the ep. we warned that support for the destruction of the unity of the country would generate confrontation and destabilization of both sides, with potential effects for the entire region. unfortunately, reality confirms this warning with the return of the conflict between north and south over the definition of borders. the us, eu, israel took advantage of the conflict that existed until 2005, exacerbated poverty, social injustices, ethnic and religious differences (the north is arab-muslim and the south african-christian) and pushed the peoples to secede for reasons of geostrategic self-interest and exploitation of the considerable oil reserves and various important minerals in the south. it is necessary to advocate a peaceful political solution to the conflict, free from any external interference, supporting dialogue between the parties and mutually acceptable solutions to the problem of defining borders and sharing oil revenues. the deployment of more un forces, as advocated in this resolution, and their permanent presence may not be the necessary contribution to a genuine process of unity and peace for this region.
in writing. - i support the agreement, particularly because there are historical and cultural links and strong trade traditions between the eu and the countries concerned. in particular, i welcome the clear commitment of all parties to the promotion of human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law, confirmed by the inclusion in article 1 of the trade agreement of broad binding provisions on these fundamental principles.
in writing. it is with great personal satisfaction that i have seen this report voted in favour by 525 votes in favour (76.5%) and 64 abstentions (9.4%) before the european parliament gave its consent to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru, for which i am the rapporteur here in the european parliament. the first word to the co-rapporteur (of this previous report), my german socialist colleague bernd lange, with whom it was possible to establish a basis of mutual understanding, which has given rise to this strong support for our report. in this previous resolution, we acknowledge and support the enormous efforts of the colombian and peruvian governments in defending human rights, labour rights, indigenous peoples and the environment in recent years and call for greater involvement of civil society in the practical implementation of these fundamental values on which we do not compromise and in accelerating the reforms underway, which we believe will improve the applicability and transparency of this agreement. while i ask, as an addendum to this resolution, for a road map from each of our andean partners on these matters, from a strictly personal point of view i believe that the mechanisms provided for in the agreement, if scrupulously implemented, would lead to the same results. in october we will vote to approve the trade agreement.
in writing. - i cannot but support the trade agreement with colombia and peru, countries whose language, history and culture are so close to those of the european union. for years, these countries have been plagued by guerrilla movements such as the farc and the shining path, and they have made an effort to adopt their practices in democracy and human rights without renouncing the fight against those who seek to undermine democracy and the rule of law. the eu is also considering a new trade agreement with the two countries, which is expected to be beneficial to both sides.
in writing. the resolution under consideration, tabled following a question with a request for an oral answer on behalf of the committee on international trade, concerns the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru. for years colombia has been considered a haven for drug producers and traffickers. unscrupulous people took advantage of the poverty of the majority of the population to exploit them. thanks to international cooperation, these countries have embarked on a process of reform and the fight against drug trafficking with very positive results. colombia exceeded the forecasts of the international labour organisation in terms of the adoption of the measures advocated and peru implemented the united nations convention on labour. despite improvements in respect for human rights and the rule of law, both countries are aware of the need to continue to improve in this area. i voted in favour because i believe that this acp can help these countries to combat poverty and social exclusion and to promote the substitution of tradable consumer goods for the drug culture, thus improving exports to the eu, the main importer of goods produced in peru.
in writing. - another free trade agreement signed by the eu. this was the culmination of a difficult process in which the negotiations with the andean community were concluded only with colombia and peru. the so-called road map for human and labour rights aims to mitigate criticism of free trade and some of its most negative effects. but it obviously does not change the essence of this agreement. we'll be here to evaluate your practical results. between two unequal parties, free trade is always the protectionism of the rich. the pressure on countries which have hitherto benefited from the gsp system to sign such agreements cannot be ignored. on the other hand, the hypocrisy of the eu in human rights issues is once again demonstrated. a launching pad for countries that don't align with their interests, conveniently ignored when appropriate. this is now the case in colombia, where clear violations of human rights have been denounced by numerous social organizations, particularly trade unions. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement. we voted against it.
in writing. − as the eu is latin america's largest investor and second largest trading partner, and also the largest provider of development aid, we believe that these data are sufficient to have a clear and well-defined strategy for eu-latin america trade relations. a good way to achieve the aid that latin america needs is through the dynamisation of trade relations between the two blocs, which, if it comes to fruition, will be one of the main ones in the world. this is where the negotiations with colombia and peru come in. however, the outermost regions of europe, which may be affected by the import of certain agricultural products, must not be forgotten. we must find a balanced agreement which will enable these countries to develop, but which at the same time will not be detrimental to the various economic sectors of some member states, especially the agricultural sector.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, which highlights the fact that colombia and peru have ratified the eight ilo core conventions plus three of the four governance conventions, as stated by the ilo representative at the international trade commission's public hearing on the trade agreement held on 29 february 2012 in the european parliament in brussels.
in writing. - it should be stressed at the outset that there is a clear commitment by all parties to the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement to promote respect for human rights, democratic principles and the rule of law, which deserves my full support. the aim of this agreement is to open markets for goods, services, public procurement and investment, to foster economic integration between the parties and to promote comprehensive economic development, with the aim of reducing poverty and creating new employment opportunities, improving working conditions and raising living standards through liberalisation and increased trade and investment between the territories. however, much remains to be done in colombia and peru, in particular with regard to the effective implementation of the new legislative framework aimed at addressing old problems that have not yet been fully resolved, such as poverty, violence and corruption, internal armed conflicts, illegal armed groups, drug trafficking and land expropriation. that said, this agreement can prove to be a key instrument in combating the kind of situations that plague that south american region.
in writing. − the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru aims to liberalise the market for goods, services and investments and to promote economic integration between the various parties, with a view to reducing poverty, creating new employment opportunities, improving living conditions and standards. however, the agreement does not provide for a dispute settlement mechanism and sanctions are excluded in the event of a breach of the terms relating to trade and sustainable development. it is in this context that the european parliament is advocating the importance of maintaining a constructive dialogue with partner countries on the protection of human rights. regretting that the european parliament is not kept informed of the activities of the dialogue mechanism voluntarily established in 2009 between the european union and colombia, i voted in favour of this resolution which calls for the inclusion in the agreement of domestic mechanisms and dialogue with civil society.
in writing. - we voted against this resolution because free trade agreements, by opening up the markets for goods, services, public procurement and investment, do not lead to the alleged development of the weaker economies concerned by the agreement, but rather to the colonization of these economies. at the moment, the workers and peoples of peru and colombia are fighting a courageous struggle against the free trade agreement which, like the previous ones, will lead to the attack on the achievements of the workers and the sovereignty of the peoples, the appropriation by multinationals of natural resources and biodiversity, the increase in unemployment, the ruin of millions of small farmers with consequent threats to food sovereignty and security.
in writing. - i approve this report and congratulate the european union on this symbolic milestone. by having a single diplomatic front on human rights, with the creation of the post of european union special representative for human rights, we are finally speaking with one voice, even in a specific area, which i think is already a considerable reach. i think it is however appropriate to assess the importance and mandate of this new representative of the european union.
in writing. −while the appointment of the eu special representative for human rights (eusr) and the establishment of his mandate is formally a council decision based on a proposal from the eu high representative, i voted in favour of this recommendation because i consider that the eusr should act and speak on behalf of the union, reflecting the indivisible and shared responsibility of all eu institutions and member states to protect and promote human rights worldwide.
in writing. − human rights and fundamental freedoms are the set of values and principles that distinguish us as human beings and on which our coexistence is based. they are universal, indivisible and interdependent. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty was undoubtedly an important step forward in terms of human rights, including the possibility of creating an eu special representative for human rights. the ep has called on numerous occasions for the appointment of this special representative in order to promote the visibility, efficiency, coherence and accountability of eu human rights policy. i welcome the fact that his appointment is scheduled for 25 june by the foreign ministers' council and the role of the ep in appointing and supervising his mandate. the mandate will be for two and a half years, renewable in order to ensure continuity, consistency and democratic accountability. while under the authority of the eu high representative for foreign affairs and cfsp, it should nevertheless have an independent, strong and flexible mandate, in the performance of which it should act and speak on behalf of the union, reflecting the shared responsibility at the level of the eu institutions and member states to protect and promote democracy and human rights worldwide.
in writing. - the european union has been playing the role of guardian and interpreter of human rights internationally and of honest broker between the parties concerned in many cases where their violation is at issue. it has a track record of action and deliberation which makes it a particularly cohesive and active political bloc on these matters, seen externally as exemplary. despite this cohesion, given the high standards required in this area and the european effort to live up to its practice and legacy, it is justified to appoint a special representative of the european union specially dedicated to these issues and able to represent it particularly when these issues have been on the agenda. i agree with the ideal profile of the candidate for the post proposed by mr salafranca and his description of what his duties should be and the means at his disposal. i hope that the first eu special representative for human rights will rise to the challenge and that his intellectual ingenuity and practical sense will ennoble the role and make it visible and respected in the international context.
in writing. − the european parliament's concern for respect for human rights is recognised worldwide and the sakharov prize for freedom of thought, awarded annually and intended to reward personalities or entities who have distinguished themselves in the defence of human rights and fundamental freedoms, is much appreciated. the report, drawn up by josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra, focuses on the ep's recommendation to the council on the appointment of a european union special representative for human rights. the eu's structure is based on human rights, universal values which must be taken into account in all eu negotiations with third countries. in fact, the violation of human rights is still very much alive and well and i would like to highlight two cases: the self-immolation of monks in tibet and the continuing massacre of innocents in syria, which alone would justify this appointment. i therefore welcome the present recommendation to appoint an eu special representative for human rights who will work for human rights justice, for the abolition of the death penalty, for the defence of causes against impunity, for the defence of the rights of women, children, minorities and against any form of discrimination.
in writing. - we have repeatedly denounced the instrumental conception of human rights which is increasingly dominating european union policy in this area. the creation of the eu special representative for human rights cannot be dissociated from this process. the appointment of a face to this policy will give it increased visibility, but will not erase its fragility, contradictions and inconsistencies. unfortunately, what is at stake is more the defence of the eu's economic and geostrategic interests in the world - that is, its powers and its economic groups - than a genuine defence of human rights. we did not support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that respect for human rights is one of the main pillars of european policies. the eusr for human rights, as the sole spokesperson for democratic values, will strengthen the eu's role in the protection and promotion of human rights in its external policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation to the council on the eu special representative for human rights, in which the european parliament, recognising the exclusive competence of the council to appoint the eu special representative on the proposal of the high representative, urges that, in order to enhance the transparency and accountability of the mandate of the eusr, an exchange of views/hearing with the appointed eusr for human rights be held in the competent committee of the european parliament.
in writing. − the appointment of an eu special representative for human rights is a very important step towards enhancing the visibility and coherence of eu policy in this area and is considered a key part of its common foreign and security policy (cfsp). while the appointment of the eu special representative (eusr) for human rights and the establishment of his mandate formally constitute a council decision, on the basis of a proposal by the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy, the eusr should act and speak on behalf of the union, reflecting the indivisible and shared responsibility of all eu institutions and member states to protect and promote human rights worldwide. i believe that this reaffirms the eu's commitment to promoting human rights and democracy in all its external action, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − human rights are a constituent pillar of the eu as expressed in article 21 of the eu treaty and their promotion and defence are an essential policy for common foreign and security action. following several calls from parliament, on the basis of article 33 teu, the council is asked to appoint the eu special representative for human rights (eusr) in order to make eu policies more effective and visible and in line with other international organisations already on the ground. the aim of this post is to give greater visibility to the eu's role in promoting human rights and democracy in the world. there should therefore be coordination with other services and institutions within the eu, and it should serve as a link with international, regional and non-governmental organisations. the eusr shall be a person of international standing and international renown in the field of human rights, and his or her mandate shall be for a period of 2 years, renewable after consultation of the ep.
in writing. - the appointment of an eu special representative for human rights underlines the importance the eu wishes to attach to this front, which is obviously instrumental. by creating a face, the eu wants to give greater visibility to a hypocritical policy that creates or uses processes of interference and aggression where and when eu interests are at stake. taking into account the eu's political practice, the appointment of a representative is not aimed at its effective defence - which should above all be a cross-cutting practice - but rather accentuates the manipulation and minimisation of human rights. it is to reinforce a policy which links various eu instruments, such as the european external action service, with all those who, in countries where the eu has geostrategic, economic and financial interests, are available to give expression to interference and the violation of the sovereignty of the people, defending the interests of the eu's great powers. as the eu crisis is demonstrating, big capital in the eu is trying to get out of its crisis by increasing the exploitation of workers and by dominating natural resources, energy, food and markets. it is towards this objective that the eu nominee's action will converge.
in writing. - i support this report, considering it essential that the european union has an effective, efficient and transparent domain in the field of arms negotiations, and should take into account that opaque, poorly controlled and regulated arms trade agreements can lead to irresponsible arms exchanges and cause unnecessary human harm. in view of this, a strong and clear set of parameters in which such agreements are made is urgently needed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i understand the need to seek to regulate the trade in conventional arms through an international legal instrument. despite this principled position, i cannot but express my scepticism both as regards its conclusion in the appropriate terms and as regards its effectiveness if it comes into force. the weight of the arms industry is well known and the european need to maintain, if not increase, member states' investment in their defence industries as part of the common effort to be undertaken within the framework of the atlantic alliance. but beyond this legitimate investment in these industries that generate jobs and create technical innovation, there is a hard-to-control side market that moves many millions of euros a year. we must seek to limit their action and combat their main agents. without this firm action at international level and a truly operational character, the treaty may at first be nothing more than a mere enunciation of hopeful words. but words are worth more than guns and, fortunately, produce effects that guns cannot always counteract.
in writing. - the arms trade is a matter which divides europeans between those who see it as just another form of trade with the resulting economic added value and those who see it as a commercial strategy enabling terrorist groups to achieve their aims. this treaty is crucial to prevent situations like those that have occurred in syria, with china and russia providing weapons that are used to kill innocent people. it is therefore essential that the united nations adopt restrictive measures and transparent rules on this type of trade. given that the value of arms exports by member states represents some 30% of world exports, and that they are among the world's largest arms producers, i welcome this initiative by the united nations to draw up an instrument which would legally bind all un members with regard to the manufacture, import, export and transfer of conventional arms. i welcome the measures proposed and hope that all countries will implement them as soon as possible so as to prevent these weapons from being diverted to illicit markets where they can be used for other purposes, including criminal activities or terrorist acts.
in writing. − the discussion on the arms trade treaty (att) began in 2006, when the un general assembly adopted a resolution that had the support of 153 countries. the united states was the only un member state to vote against the creation of this treaty. the implementation of this treaty is of great importance in a context of renewed arms race, with increased military spending, especially by the usa and the nato countries, which is increasingly revealing its aggressive nature. the eu, with the treaty of lisbon and the provisions on the european defence agency, is also entering this race. the regulation of arms imports, exports and transfers will be all the more effective if it is accompanied by a process of multilateral and reciprocal disarmament, in particular by dismantling the existing huge nuclear arsenals and the complete destruction of chemical and biological weapons. it is also important to attack the instruments, such as tax havens, which enable money laundering associated with arms trafficking. we appreciate that the reference to employment in the arms industry has been removed from the resolution. that is why we voted in favour.
in writing. − the treaty should cover as many activities as possible in the conventional arms trade, including import, export, transfer (including transit and transhipment, as well as temporary import and export and re-export), foreign licensed manufacture, stockpile management and all related services, including brokering, transport and financing. the treaty should cover all aspects of the trade in conventional arms, including transfers between states, transfers between states and private end-users, commercial sales and leases, as well as loans, grants, aid or any other form of transfer. the treaty should also cover the widest range of conventional weapons, including small arms, light weapons and ammunition, transfers without the use of bodies, dual-use goods, components and technologies associated with their use, as well as the manufacture or maintenance of such weapons for military or security purposes and law enforcement purposes. i also think it is very important to pay particular attention to the marking and traceability of conventional weapons and ammunition in order to strengthen accountability and prevent arms transfers being diverted to illicit recipients.
in writing. − a poorly regulated, uncontrolled and opaque arms trade leads to an irresponsible arms trade, has already caused unnecessary human suffering, fuelled armed conflict, instability, terrorist attacks and corruption, has also undermined peace processes, good governance and socioeconomic development, and has led to the overthrow of democratically elected governments and the violation of the rule of law, human rights and international humanitarian law. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution, which calls for the negotiation of a legally binding international arms trade treaty in july 2012 to be a landmark step towards progress through greater transparency and accountability, and to this end, to establish the highest international standards and criteria for evaluating decisions on the transfer, import and export of conventional arms.
in writing. the arms trade treaty aims to regulate and bind signatory states to the establishment of standards for the import, export and transfer of conventional arms with a view to reducing illicit trade in such arms. this illicit trade is directly linked to organised crime and criminal activities, to supporting terrorist acts, and to undermining global, regional and local stability and security. in the negotiations on this treaty, which are still ongoing this year, it is imperative to involve the majority of the states and not to forget that it must be in line with international human rights law and international humanitarian law. the eu must present a common and robust position, showing the other partners that transparency and accountability in the negotiation and ratification process is of the utmost importance for global stability and security.
in writing. − the debate on the establishment of the arms trade treaty (att) began in 2006 when the un general assembly adopted a resolution supported by 153 countries, with the us being the only un member state to vote against the creation of the att. the completion of this process is of great importance in a context where the arms race and military expenditure, the investment in new weapons by the usa, nato and the eu, is being relaunched, over the hypocritical talk of their reduction. however, it must be stressed that the regulation of the import, export and transfer of arms will be all the more relevant if it is accompanied by a process of multilateral and reciprocal disarmament, in particular the dismantling of the huge existing nuclear arsenals, starting with the world's largest nuclear powers - such as the usa - and the complete destruction of chemical and biological weapons.
in writing. - i vote in favour. i express my deep concern about the situation in the democratic republic of congo, where the re-election of president joseph kabila and the subsequent contestation of the election results by the opposition following the last presidential elections on 28 november 2011 have resulted in extreme clashes with serious violence. since then, the situation in the country has remained very unstable, with the continuing violation of human rights and the humanitarian situation being even more worrying, making a transparent democratization process involving all parties urgent.
in writing. - the elections in the democratic republic of congo, which were affected by a number of irregularities, demonstrate how the institutionalisation of democracy does not depend solely on the electoral act. the drc has not been a fully peaceful state for a long time, a state which respects democracy and human rights. there are many reports of this and many international attempts to prevent the situation from worsening. unfortunately, there are no tangible results worthy of more than a vague hope and which do not cause concern to observers and international partners. the stabilization of the democratic republic of congo is a major factor in the stabilization of a continent which cannot be achieved without the stabilization of its second largest country. its process of transition to democracy inspires the natural care and constant attention of the european union.
in writing. − the democratic republic of congo (drc), one of the poorest countries in the world, is a nascent democracy recovering from a very difficult past and therefore needs eu support to consolidate the reforms it has begun. this joint motion for a resolution, tabled in replacement of the motions for resolutions tabled by six political groups, concerns the monitoring of the elections in the drc, whose eu observation mission concluded that these elections were marked by a lack of transparency and credibility due to the fraud and irregularities found. in addition, there is a continuing violation of human rights by armed groups, confirming a serious problem of lack of governmental authority. the eu must continue to support the drc, in particular the victims of armed groups whose disarmament is essential and urgent for the establishment of a climate of peace and the implementation of much needed reforms in the country. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and i hope that the situation will improve and that the next elections will take place in the normal way required so that all the human rights violations and crimes committed by elements of the army will end.
in writing. − the democratic republic of congo (drc), located in the heart of africa and bordering numerous countries in the central african region, has enormous potential in natural resources, particularly minerals. a potential unmatched in the entire african continent and even in the world. since its independence, the processes of interference and aggression have been continuous, either from outside or using actors within the country itself, pushing it into a series of conflicts that have almost continuously generated the immense contradiction that in this country of so much potential, the majority of the people live in a situation of extreme poverty. for our part, we will continue to support this struggle for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and right of the country to economic and social development. it is necessary to defend the sovereignty of the congolese people, to ensure that the people and the natural resources of the country can be used to achieve their interests and aspirations.
in writing. − the defence of democracy and transparent electoral processes is in the eu's dna. the final report of the election monitoring mission reveals a serious situation which should concern everyone, starting with the drc authorities. the eu must continue to help the people of these countries to achieve their dream of living in a full democracy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, which stresses the fact that the humanitarian security situation in the country continues to constitute a threat to stability in the region. i stress that peace, security, democracy and good governance are prerequisites for the long-term development of the democratic republic of congo.
in writing. - the european union's election observation mission in the democratic republic of congo. the monitoring mission concluded in its final report that the electoral process was marked by a lack of transparency and credibility, due to the numerous irregularities and fraud. elections are necessary, but not sufficient, to create the conditions for the process of democratization, which is much more extensive than the process of organizing elections. the construction of a democratic society requires above all a strong political will and an ambitious vision of political leaders, governments and the opposition, aiming at the creation of political institutions that guarantee the human, civil and political, social, economic and environmental rights of the population. the process of democratization must therefore be linked to the social and economic development of the country in order to meet the basic needs of the population, such as the right to employment, health and education, if it is to be successful.
in writing. − according to the report of the eu election observation mission in the democratic republic of congo, the electoral process of the last elections in november 2011 was marked by a lack of transparency and credibility, given the high number of irregularities detected. moreover, the local and regional elections scheduled for 25 march this year have not yet taken place and the authorities are not open to calling them. i consider it extremely important that the 22 recommendations of the eu election observation mission in the democratic republic of congo be taken into account and implemented by the authorities in the country, using instead the principle of conditionality. the creation of a constitutional court that upholds democratic principles and safeguards human rights, as well as the establishment of a national electoral commission with members of civil society, are fundamental to the creation of a true rule of law.
in writing. - the democratic republic of congo (drc) remains one of the countries with the greatest potential for natural resources, particularly minerals, in the whole of the african continent and indeed in the whole of the world. since its independence, the processes of interference and aggression have been continuous, either from outside or using actors within the country itself, pushing it into a series of conflicts that, almost without interruption, have generated the immense contradiction between the enormous potential of this country and the fact that the majority of the people live in a situation of extreme poverty. let us remember the assassination of patrice lumumba, the prime minister of the drc, who was murdered by imperialist conspiracies involving the un, the belgian government and the cia. the young pioneer of african unity, staunch defender of the drc's sovereignty, the dignity and self-reliance of its people, was a danger to the neocolonialist attempts of the great world powers. more than 40 years later, the struggle continues for the congolese people. for our part, we will continue to support this struggle for the sovereignty, territorial integrity and right of the country to economic and social development. it is necessary to defend the sovereignty of the congolese people free from any outside interference, to ensure that the people and the natural resources of the country can be used to achieve their interests and aspirations.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, europe is faced today with three agendas: the growth agenda, the agenda on the management of banks and the agenda on the management of sovereign debt. and dealing with the european semester involves including these three dimensions. on the question of growth, i think it is important to stress at this point that the commission's recommendations cannot only concern countries with deficits, they must also concern countries with surpluses, and if some have to crush their domestic demand, others have to free it. i also think that, in terms of growth, it is essential that the commission follows the recommendations of the so-called troika, because when a country goes into recession it cannot continue to crush its public investment, crush public spending as if nothing had happened. the troika's revenue must be reviewed and adjusted in the light of the results, and i should like to tell you, commissioner, that we have today approved in parliament the need to launch immediately an instrument for growth and countercyclical activity of the order of 1% of the european union's gdp over 10 years. a second dimension which is fundamental is the dimension of what is now called the banking union, we asked in parliament that this be done two years ago, in a report of june 2010, so far it has not materialized. a third dimension is the sovereign debt dimension, without which there is no stability in europe, and i also want to say that today we have approved the two pack here, but we have introduced into the two pack, in addition to austerity, some of the other dimension that has been missing, and that is the immediate setting up of a redemption fund, using german terminology, so that the sovereign debt exceeding 60% can be managed jointly. this is a legislative text and we hope that the commission will give its full support to this initiative of parliament so that we can control the completely threatening spiral which is currently destroying the european union.
mr president, we need only look at the economic policy recommendations published by the european commission to understand the meaning and the underlying objectives of this european semester. in portugal, for example, the commission has now come to the defence of wage cuts, just like that, in a country which already has one of the lowest wages in europe, in a country where millions of workers have been impoverished despite having a job and many others are impoverished every day, in a country where millions have been dragged into the most extreme poverty. he also advocated reducing unemployment benefits in a country where unemployment is at historic levels, as a result of the policies imposed by the european union and the imf, in a country where long-term unemployment has increased, the commission's recommendations were. this is the sense of coordination, coordinating the attack on social rights, coordinating the levelling down of living and working conditions in europe, and this is what the european semester was intended to do.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, now that we are about to discuss a growth pact, it is essential not to forget citizenship and consumers, and, in the end, the human and social dimension that gives it substance, and which was the subject of one of the three reports on the single market act of 2001, because any growth pact must take account of the social sacrifices and benefits that are linked to it. as important as an internal market test is a social impact test of all the measures taken to bring about the single market, a test, yes, an examination, which will enable us to measure the progress achieved for the benefit of the citizens of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, free competition in the single market, by its natural dynamics, accentuates the divergence. economies with very different degrees of development, once placed in direct competition, without mechanisms to protect and safeguard the weaker economies, inevitably diverge. there is a growing dominance of the weaker economies by the stronger ones, and this has been the story of this integration process. look at this seriously and you will see here some of the real causes of the external indebtedness of several peripheral countries. they now want to deepen the single market and they want to do so by cutting the community budget and cohesion funds at the same time, precisely the instrument which could help to overcome some of the existing inequalities, under pressure from the countries which are precisely the biggest beneficiaries of the single market. the result can only be one: more divergence, more inequality between member states, in other words, cohesion will increasingly be nothing but a dead letter in the treaties.
member of the commission. − mr president, a robust and systemic solution must be found – and very soon – to the financial and economic crisis. a major consequence of this crisis is the excessively high unemployment. unemployment now stands at 10.3% in the 27 member states of the eu, a level we have not seen since the 1990s. within the euro area, the level of unemployment is even higher, reaching 11% of the workforce. to find real solutions to europe’s current crisis, we need a jobs-centred approach. the employment package that the commission presented in april shows how employment policies can ensure that job creation drives economic growth. the package also outlines ways to rebalance eu economic governance by strengthening the coordination of employment policies. we need the strong support of the european parliament on both these issues. the commission package seeks to reorient european employment policy along three main lines. first, we support measures to create jobs and boost the demand for labour across the economy. we identified the green economy, information and communication technologies, and the health and care services as the three areas that can generate the most job opportunities and for which a detailed action plan is presented. we propose concrete demands and interventions to support job creation, such as hiring subsidies for newly created jobs, a budget-neutral tax shift from labour to environmental taxes and greater support for business start-ups, self-employment and last, but not least, the social economy. second, the package seeks to make labour markets more dynamic through balanced and fair reforms, notably investment in skills and the removal of obstacles to free movement of workers and worker mobility. we need to secure transitions in the labour market by making sure that transitions pay. a more dynamic european labour market will help to reduce existing skill shortages and mismatches. this is why we also need to invest in skills and to create new tools to anticipate and monitor skills development at the eu level. the commission is also committed to improving mobility by removing obstacles, such as those affecting the portability of pensions. we are also proposing to transform the current eures system into a genuine eu employment tool able to match jobs and jobseekers across borders. third, the package aims to strengthen eu governance of employment policies. in particular, we want to reinforce monitoring of member states’ employment polices so that employment and social concerns do not lag behind economic concerns. we also seek to involve the social partners in the process of implementing reforms and monitoring wage developments at the eu level. in addition, the package also sets out a stronger link between member states’ labour market reforms and investment through eu financial instruments and, in particular, the european social fund. parliament’s support for the package is critical. it will provide an additional political impetus for employment to be considered among the cornerstones of our ‘european growth pact’. i am looking forward to this debate today.
this package from the european commission advocates, among other measures, the reduction of the burden of capital on workers' social security contributions, i.e. it advocates the reduction of labour costs and the decapitalisation of social security systems, opening the way to their privatisation and the theft of workers in this way. but where does the european commission say that company formation should be channelled and where? for this new sector of opportunity that they call the social economy and social enterprises, which means replacing the public services that they have shut down, turning people's rights into business opportunities. the european commission also advocates the fixing of wages in relation to productivity, a magic formula for placing the responsibility for business performance, which, as we know, has several factors, on the shoulders of workers. the package of measures also offers us other gems, such as the need to increase the flexibility of working hours, the implementation of time banks and the call for the creation of conditions which favour the mobility of workers, that is, it promotes emigration as a solution to the lack of employment. how can anyone applaud a european commission package that promotes job creation when it is itself advocating public sector layoffs in several countries? the european commission may now be trying to have a social rhetoric, but its policies have worsened the recession and with it unemployment. we demand an end to neoliberal policies and so-called austerity. europe needs a recovery that involves investment in the public sector and wage increases.
since 2008, europe has already lost more than 6 million jobs. in my country, portugal, the economy is suffering an unprecedented contraction and unemployment among men, women and young people is at an all-time high. according to banco de portugal forecasts, the situation will worsen in the next two years. it is in this context that we support and welcome the initiative of the new employment package and congratulate commissioner andor. in insisting now and always on the basic premise of the need for economic growth, member states will really have to concentrate their efforts on job creation. the means for this must be through subsidies for recruitment that create new jobs, through reductions in the tax burden on labour, and support for the creation of new businesses and entrepreneurship, but also for small and medium-sized enterprises that maintain jobs. national employment policies need to bear in mind that the areas with the greatest potential for job creation are health, information and communication technologies and the green economy. as the communication says, there is an urgent need to reduce the gap between the qualifications provided by education and the skills demanded by the labour market. on the other hand, one of the solutions to combating unemployment is the mobility of workers. the use of the structural funds for job creation and the practical importance of the eures portal as the quintessential tool for recruitment and job vacancies in europe are also crucial. finally, social governance must be on the agenda because our citizens are anxiously awaiting concrete results.
i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in the negotiations, but that it should be involved in the negotiations. information to the population and public participation in decision-making is not only a right, it is a necessity, only an informed population can limit damage and only a deciding population can protect itself from abuse. the first priority is to prevent and limit the consequences, and i therefore welcome this proposal. but when we see that even recently in hungary the poorest of the poor were abandoned after the toxic sludge spill, when we see that in the chemical accident in bhopal in india, hundreds of thousands of victims were abandoned to their fate at the same time that the company operated and made profits in europe, we cannot ignore, we cannot forget, so there is also a need for financial and criminal liability of these companies and there is also a need for even more transfer.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work is a welcome step towards the creation of a european union directive on carcinogens. it is therefore essential to incorporate the fight against fgm into a general and coherent approach to combating gender-based violence, and specifically against women, and to the fight for universal respect for human rights. through the allocation of appropriate financial resources, the european union, member states and partners can coordinate to fund innovative programmes and disseminate best practices that address the needs of girls in vulnerable situations, providing them with easy access to these programmes and services. support is also needed for civil society organisations and the awareness-raising, mobilisation and training programmes they carry out in at-risk communities in europe and other continents. i therefore call on the commission and the member states to follow the recommendations of this european parliament resolution, so that women's rights and the empowerment of women and girls are mainstreamed throughout european external policy in line with the 2012 action plan on gender, and that the involvement of national, regional and local authorities as well as civil society in third countries is essential.
violence against women, of which genital mutilation is an example, is a reality and represents a serious violation of human rights. statistics reveal that most women will experience some form of violence during their lifetime. community legislation needs to be strengthened, preferably through a directive, so that all eu member states will consider this type of violence as a public crime. national legislation should provide for measures on legal support, social and employment guidance and access to health care. only a thorough knowledge of the european reality can effectively combat this scourge. the creation of a domestic violence observatory is essential for this. knowledge of the problem is essential to adopt the best strategies for prevention and intervention, for protecting victims and for punishing offenders. prevention is essential. eliminating stereotypes and myths, changing gender representations and values that have perpetuated the existence of unequal relationships in the family, school and social environment are the main challenges. awareness-raising and mobilisation of civil society is emerging as a key strategy to change practices and behaviour.
the commission has already taken the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament is able to take part in the debate on the future of the european union. this has affected a large number of hundreds of thousands of women, as already mentioned, estimated to be about 500,000. now, we are talking about estimates because there have been flaws, and there have been serious flaws in this process, we know that what happened with this company is a criminal case, it is a fraud, it is a court case, but we also know that there is a fraud here that should be controlled by the courts and the courts will deal with it, but there is a legal flaw, there is a legal gap and that we must deal with, we have responsibilities in this matter. for 10 years, we have not been able to identify what the criminals have been able to identify, and so there was a gap in terms of control, in terms of traceability, in terms of the files, in terms of the records, everything has failed, but these guys in this company have been able to put into practice what we could not control, and that is why in this process there is not only the issue of lack of information, which is very important, in fact, the lack of information in all the issues related to breast implants, but also the humiliation of thousands of women and the humiliation, in particular, of those women who had to undergo tests to know whether or not they had the correct implants. we are talking about a public health issue and we cannot be lax in public health matters, we control so much that is unnecessary, we even control the authenticity of spare parts in cars, and we have recently passed a directive on this. we must control what is fundamental to people's lives, the revision of the medical device directive is good news, it would be better if we didn't have to do it, but now that we are going to do it, we must apply it with conditions, with traceability, transparency, control, sanctions, because unfortunately the sanctions, even if they are applied, will not be applied to the women who suffered from this problem and the states must take full responsibility.
mr president, today, when you walk into a supermarket and look at the yoghurt section, for example, you might think you have just walked into a pharmacy, so much promise. however, this excessive advertising is in contrast to the lack of information and labelling on the elements for populations with specific needs: newborns, infants, gluten or lactose intolerant, diabetic patients, among many others. even more serious is the availability of these foods that are often not found, even after browsing various supermarkets and stores. scarcity cannot be an option for those who have no choice. another absolutely relevant issue is the price, as a rule, these foods are much more expensive. for people with special dietary needs, it is not a choice but an imperative, we cannot allow, here too, a gap to be created between those who can and those who cannot respond to what is essential to their lives, this is for us a central concern, this is a matter of public health and the health of all of us cannot be left in the hands of the few but powerful multinationals in the food industry. clear rules are needed to protect those who have no choice, it is quite clear to us that europe cannot ignore the health of the most vulnerable.
mr president, commissioner, the situation of milk producers is already extremely difficult. tens of thousands of producers have been forced to abandon production, but things could get even worse, the sector could even be largely liquidated in some countries, even in some that are now self-sufficient, as is the case with portugal. the reason is simple: it is due to the liberalisation of the sector, to the increase in production quotas, with a view to their ending in 2015. as we warned then and as life has shown, the promised landing has been anything but smooth, however much they may try to sow illusions, the truth is only one, in the free and unregulated market they advocate, we will have a division of production within the european union which will tend to concentrate production even more in a few countries and in a few large producers. the others will be progressively overwhelmed by production prices which do not even cover production costs. the situation is all the more serious because, while abolishing the instruments for regulating production and markets, they also want to prolong the scandalous asymmetries in the distribution of cap payments between countries. it is therefore imperative to reverse the decision to abolish milk quotas, which must be adjusted to the needs of each member state and its relative level of production capacity. dumping between member states must be stopped, and instruments are needed to regulate production and markets so that producers can be guaranteed fair prices, prices which at least cover production costs. that is the simple question which, with all the legislative work, they have not been able to answer. (the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure, in accordance with rule 149 (8))
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. unfortunately, mr de breschi, the truth is that governments have done little to defend the interests of their own countries, this has not been different in portugal and i have also had the opportunity to criticise successive portuguese governments for what they have done in this respect, but, recognising the disastrous effects of this measure, the decision to end the end of quotas and to increase them until 2015, we can certainly also, and you too, help to reverse this whole situation, as the matter is now under discussion and we will have the opportunity here in the european parliament to propose that this disastrous decision be reversed and that we can again have the necessary instruments for regulating production and markets.
mr president, good production conditions and more production possibilities have led to considerable increases in milk production, creating critical situations of surpluses and low prices on the milk and milk products market. in many regions with high production potential, these surpluses were placed at break-even prices on the markets of other countries, creating further downward pressure on prices paid to producers in these countries. this has happened, for example, with french milk, which is sold in france at twice the price it was sold for in galicia, and producers, with the high rise in the cost of raw materials and production factors, have now seen their capacity to withstand low prices drastically reduced. this is a bad omen for many farms and many productive areas in europe and it also seems to be a clear sign of what the future may be without quotas and without adequate supply regulation instruments. i therefore call for a detailed audit to be carried out on the territorial impacts on thousands of farms throughout the european union of the abolition of these instruments we have today to regulate supply.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr president, mrs mcguinness, the fact that the quota system has led to a sharp fall in prices - and the commissioner would point out that the commission often uses this argument too - does not prove that the quota system is flawed, it simply shows that the quotas were not properly adjusted to what the needs of each country should be and to its level of production, relative production capacity, so as to prevent some countries from flooding the market of others, that is all it has shown, the quotas were not set at the levels they should be, it does not prove that the quota system is flawed. but perhaps mrs mcguinness can tell us something about ireland's plans to increase milk production in the coming years, because it will be one of the countries that will actually benefit most from the end of the quota system. there are already plans to increase milk production very substantially, and perhaps you can shed some light on some of those plans.
mr president, i think that this debate has made it abundantly clear that we are not happy with what is happening in the european milk sector. the volatility is high, it has been in the past, it is in the present and it is to be expected that, with the measures taken so far, it will continue to be volatile in the future. as regards quotas, my position is well known, i think they are absolutely decisive and have not been used properly to achieve effective regulation of the market. if we are to move towards a solution of effective termination of quotas, it is necessary, it is urgent that some form of market regulation should take place, because otherwise we risk being left without milk production, especially in some countries and particularly in the southern countries, because the milk package, as designed, does not effectively serve the southern countries and regions highly dependent on the dairy sector, such as the azores, risk being left with their agricultural economy completely devastated, as well as social and demographic issues. i therefore call for a holistic view of the sector for future-oriented decision-making and regulation.
mr president, we are discussing this issue here because there is a real problem in european society. the milk sector is being hit once again by a very harsh cycle of falling prices and as politicians we have to find solutions so that anxiety is not the permanent state of mind of milk producers. this is a sector of enormous social importance and therefore cannot be analysed from the point of view of competitiveness alone. if that is the case, then of course total liberalisation, the sacralization of the market solves the problem, but we must also look at the social aspect. the decision in 2003 to abolish the quota system was taken when liberalism, the liberal fashion, was at its peak, we have seen in recent years that it is not the right recipe for the problems of the european economy and we see here also in the discussion we are having now on the reform of the cap that there is an increasing tendency to prolong a quota system in sugar, vine planting rights, that is, we cannot be liberal in one thing and be advocates of intervention in another. the commission must therefore reflect on why the solutions which have been adopted have not been able to solve this major problem.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering the multiannual plans for the conservation of fisheries a fundamental instrument used by the european union which have been blocked in the council for more than two years. the solution adopted in the regulation may have an impact on the decision to be taken on other multiannual fisheries plans.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report amending the commission proposal because i agree with the use of delegated acts to adapt fishing mortality rates and corresponding spawning stock biomass levels to scientific findings, but also consider that it is essential to define rigorously the circumstances in which the commission may adopt delegated acts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the western scotland herring stock because i welcome the use of delegated acts to adapt the conservation plans to scientific findings and the use of the ordinary legislative procedure to amend the plan, thus bringing this regulation into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − the conservation of fisheries resources is a matter of concern to the european institutions, since they are aware of the role of these resources in maintaining biodiversity and their contribution to human food. in 2008, the council agreed on a regulation setting fishing conditions for certain fish stocks, including herring. the report under review, drawn up by struan stevenson, focuses on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1300/2008 of 18 december 2008 establishing a multiannual plan for the stock of herring to the west of scotland and the fisheries exploiting that stock. i agree with the rapporteur's position on speeding up procedures taking into account the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and on the condition that the commission informs the council and parliament of the measures taken within the time limits laid down. i voted in favour because it is essential that there should be multiannual recovery and management plans for fisheries resources - which should be based on scientific advice - which are linked to economically viable conditions for fishing communities.
in writing. - as this regulation is not in line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty, that is because in some articles it still confers powers on the commission, which is no longer possible, the european commission has suggested that the regulation be brought into line with the framework established by the new treaty. delegated acts were established concerning the adaptation of fishing mortality rates and corresponding spawning stock biomass levels to scientific findings and legislative acts concerning all other changes to be made to the multiannual plan. the rapporteur generally supports the commission's position, but proposes some amendments. proposes that the delegation be limited in time and that the references to articles 8 and 9 be deleted, because they widen the scope of the delegated acts. it considers that stecf and the crpf should continue to play a central role. the commission should therefore be obliged to seek the opinions of those bodies before adopting delegated acts or proposing amendments to the multiannual plan. it advocates that the current designation of the geographical area in which the herring stock is evolving should not be changed. we voted in favour.
in writing. - the council regulation on the multiannual plan for the herring stock was adopted before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, so the adoption of this report makes the necessary adjustment. this regulation could be the first act in the fisheries sector to be adapted to the new tfeu. it is therefore particularly important to find a good, well-founded legal solution to safeguard the rights conferred on the european parliament by the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - in line with what i did in the committee on fisheries, i voted in favour of this report mainly because i agree with the legal harmonisation suggested between the regulation establishing a multiannual plan for the herring stock in the west of scotland and the fisheries exploiting that stock and the framework established by the new treaty of lisbon. it should be remembered that the vote on this report will set a precedent for future harmonization at this level.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal is to amend regulation (ec) no 1300/2008 establishing a multiannual plan for the stock of herring in the west of scotland and the fisheries exploiting that stock. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to the beneficiary was compatible with the internal market. the regulation could be the first act in the fisheries sector to be adapted to the tfeu. it is therefore particularly important to find a well-founded legal solution to safeguard the rights conferred on the european parliament by the treaty of lisbon. the solution adopted by this regulation may in fact influence future decision-making processes concerning other multiannual plans. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - the aim of this report is to bring ec regulation no 1300/2008 on the stock of herring in the west of scotland and the fisheries exploiting that stock into line with the entry into force of the tfeu. as this is the first regulation to be adopted after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, it is important to establish the legal basis, as it will serve as a basis for further amendments. in addition to this technical issue, it is also important to note the simplification of the process of evaluating the plan every 4 years, the use of delegated acts as well as the ordinary legislative procedure to make the necessary amendments to the plan. i agree with the rapporteur when he asks for more clarity on the scope of delegated acts and a reference to the scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries and the regional advisory council for pelagic resources when evaluating, as these are essential expert opinions.
in writing. the commission has suggested that this regulation be harmonised in order to bring it into line with the new treaty, and the rapporteur proposes some amendments, proposing that delegations be limited in time, supporting the current powers of the stecf and the ccrrp and advocating that the current designation of the geographical area in which the herring stock is evolving be left unchanged. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i support this report, as all efforts to prevent chemical accidents, the consequences of which are dangerous and can affect countless people, are crucial. accident assessment and response plans need to be strengthened, while keeping the public well informed. i believe that this report goes in that direction, making certain elements mandatory which are indispensable to achieve this objective, in particular with regard to an accident prevention policy, greater requirements for infrastructure safety reports, implementation of internal emergency plans, among others. only concerted action will achieve better results in preventing hazards from dangerous substances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important to prevent and reduce the likelihood and consequences of serious industrial accidents, which kill people, destroy public and private property and damage the environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the dangers of serious accidents involving dangerous substances, considering that the commitment reached with the council will make it possible to strengthen accident prevention, the protection of public health and the provision of information to citizens.
in writing. − serious industrial accidents, such as those in seveso (italy, 1976), enschede (netherlands, 2000), toulouse (france, 2001) and buncefield (uk, 2005), have not only claimed many lives, but have also destroyed property and damaged the environment, causing irreparable damage. to reduce the likelihood and mitigate the consequences of these accidents, the eu adopted in due course the seveso i and ii directives. the aim is now to review these directives in order to integrate them with the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (cer regulation). this review is necessary and the commission has chosen to maintain the level of protection and avoid substantial changes.
in writing. - industrial accidents usually have devastating consequences: human casualties, air pollution and groundwater pollution. the report under review, by jános áder, looks at the dangers associated with serious accidents involving dangerous substances in europe we have 2000 companies dealing with these matters - and aims to protect people, the environment and avoid wasting resources. in fact, serious industrial accidents have caused billions of dollars in damage. to reduce the likelihood of these accidents occurring and to minimise their consequences, the eu first adopted directive 82/501/eec (seveso i directive) and later directive 96/82/ec (seveso ii directive) which, although successful, needs revision due to the need to adapt to the ccr regulation. the new rules increase safety and apply equally to all businesses and in all eu member states. in addition, inspection rules are more detailed and public information is improved. i welcome the package of measures now approved, which will allow member states to improve safety conditions, thus contributing to a higher level of protection for people and the environment.
in writing. the new proposal for a directive repeals the existing directive 96/82/ec, known as the seveso ii directive, which aims to prevent major accidents (such as those at seveso, bhopal, schweizerhalle, etc.) involving large quantities of dangerous substances (or mixtures) and to limit the consequences of these accidents for man and the environment. the main reason for the revision of the seveso ii directive arises from the need to adjust its annex i to the regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of dangerous substances and mixtures. some of the amendments are purely technical, although there is also provision for the right to information, prevention and emergency plans, and the extension of the scope of application, aspects with which we can agree. we voted in favour of this report, but we cannot fail to stress the points made by our group during the debate, in particular those relating to the need to improve the safety, training and working conditions of workers directly or indirectly involved in the production and/or use of dangerous substances. unfortunately, not all the proposals were accepted by the majority.
in writing. - the serious industrial accidents which have occurred in the past almost all over europe and which have had serious repercussions, such as loss of life, destruction of public and private property, as well as severe environmental damage, have forced the eu to adopt the seveso i and ii directives. the report aims to review these directives in order to integrate them with the provisions of regulation (ec) no 1272/2008 on classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures (cer regulation).
in writing. - the proposed revision of the seveso ii directive on serious industrial accidents is necessary and the commission has rightly chosen to maintain the level of protection and avoid substantial changes in the scope. i voted in favour of this proposal and i stress the rapporteur's position that any amendments should only be authorised through the ordinary legislative procedure as the inclusion of new substances could lead to substantial changes in the scope with potentially important economic repercussions, and therefore the european parliament should be able to exercise its full powers in the decision-making process on the inclusion of substances.
in writing. − this report provides for a broader revision of the seveso directive, through the adaptation of the cre regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures, which applies the un globally harmonized system of classification and labelling of chemicals in the eu. this is a differentiated approach to the obligations of operators, whereby the strictness of the rules increases with the quantity of substances. in addition, in order to ensure an ever higher level of protection, greater access to information, greater public participation in decision-making and easier access to justice are proposed. i therefore voted in favour of this report, because i believe that it is an important step towards preventing accidents such as those which have occurred in italy, france and the netherlands, which have claimed a great number of lives, destroyed public and private property and damaged the environment, and caused billions of euros in damage.
in writing. − in order to reduce the likelihood and consequences of industrial accidents at all levels, the eu adopted the seveso i directive in 1985, amended in 1996 by the seveso ii directive, also amended in 2003, which, in addition to a list of establishments where dangerous substances or mixtures thereof are present in large quantities that may constitute a risk, includes a set of obligations for operators and responsible authorities in the member states and a major accident prevention policy. this report aims to validate the adaptation of this directive to the cre regulation, to implement the un globally harmonized system of classification and labelling of chemicals, to harmonise it with the aarhus convention and to strengthen the criteria for inspections. i support the rapporteur in that i disagree that the ec can adopt delegated acts in amending annex i, implementing the directive, and that the ordinary legislative procedure should be used as a basis where parliament will have a say on the inclusion of new substances. finally, i am in favour of the application of access to information and public participation in decision-making processes and access to justice in environmental matters.
in writing. the new proposal for a directive repeals the existing directive 96/82/ec, known as the seveso ii directive, which aims to prevent major accidents (such as those at seveso, bhopal, schweizerhalle, among others) involving large quantities of dangerous substances and to limit the consequences of these accidents for man and the environment. the main reason for the revision of the seveso ii directive arises from the need to align its annex i to the regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of dangerous substances and mixtures. we welcome the fact that the council has agreed to include in annex i at least three of the most toxic substances in the acute toxic group. the right of the public to know the procedures for participating in the decision-making process, to be informed on how to use them, to have access to information and finally to have access to justice in environmental matters is also valued.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that food for certain nutritional uses is different from food for normal consumption and is manufactured to meet specific dietary requirements. the non-implementation of the dietary food framework directive is still very wide, which has made the implementation of this directive difficult and resulted in market distortions. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the labelling of foodstuffs is not distorted.
in writing. − the commission presented this proposal for a regulation on food for infants and young children and food for medicinal purposes in june 2011. the purpose of this revision of the legislation is to simplify, also applied in the creation of a single list of substances that can be added to the foodstuffs covered by this proposal. the objective is to incorporate low calorie dietary products (dbtc) into the scope of this regulation by including them in the definition of food for medicinal purposes. it is essential that the faster and less costly notification process remains the rule, as a marketing authorisation decided at national level and the need to strengthen processes through additional rules on labelling and composition. this simplified legal framework, which provides greater protection, should be applied equally to imported and exported foodstuffs and facilitates the application of the precautionary principle. the proper functioning of the internal market depends on this. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the thorough revision of the legislation on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses, by abolishing the concept of dietetic food, which in most cases no longer makes sense from a nutritional point of view, and also because i consider it essential to strengthen the legal security of industrial operators and food-vulnerable populations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on food for infants and young children and food for special medical purposes because it includes measures that help to ensure a high level of consumer protection in the eu, in particular through provisions on food for people intolerant to gluten and the use of pesticides.
in writing. − it is essential to promote appropriate regulation of food labelling. we cannot legislate on healthy eating, but we must ensure that consumers have the information they need to make an informed choice. this is particularly important in the diet for infants and children and for people with special medical needs. the proposal lays down stricter and clearer rules on labelling, presentation and advertising. these standards cover not only infant formula and food but also food intolerances and low-calorie diets. the labelling, presentation and advertising of these foods should be clear and easy to understand for consumers.
in writing. − the issue of food for those with special nutritional needs is a key area of eu legislation to ensure a safe and healthy food supply. the market niche for these foods has grown significantly in recent years, leading to a lack of clarity when trying to distinguish between everyday food and food intended for specific groups of people. the commission therefore proposes to revise the framework directive by removing the general rules on dietetic products but retaining some specific food rules adopted under the directive. i agree that it is right to limit the scope of this regulation to a limited number of specific foodstuffs. it is clear that infants, children under 3 years of age and certain patients for whom special diets are essential deserve special attention and harmonised treatment in the european union. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted for, because newborns and children need to be well protected, but it is also urgent to move forward with a proposal for a directive on so-called growth-promoting milk, since it was not included in this package.
in writing. − this report confirms the limitation of the scope of the regulation to a limited number of specific foodstuffs, with particular attention to infants, children under 3 years of age and certain patients for whom special feeding is essential. although it excludes from its scope meals intended to replace all or part of the daily diet and sports foods specifically for intense muscular effort, the regulation includes low-calorie dietary products, including them in the category of food intended for medical purposes, for the treatment, authorisation and medical monitoring of obese patients. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the rules on the labelling of foodstuffs are complied with. we supported this report, although we regret that the right wing voted against the fact that we could have gone further in areas such as the defence of greater restrictions on the use of pesticides, or greater requirements and restrictions on the advertising of certain products, ensuring better and more complete information for consumers.
in writing. − the promotion of better regulation of food labelling is essential. it is important that consumers have the information they need to make an informed choice. for the most part, these concerns are more pressing in the case of food for infants and children and for people with specific medical needs. this regulation introduces stricter and clearer rules on labelling, presentation and advertising. the labelling, presentation and advertising of these foods should be clear and easy to understand for all consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which proposes a simplified legal framework for the rules on food for infants and young children and food for special medical purposes. this framework, which provides greater protection by means of the precautionary principle, should be applied equally to imported and exported foodstuffs. the proper functioning of the internal market depends on this, and the health of the most vulnerable cannot be ignored.
in writing. − this report follows a proposal for a regulation presented by the commission in june 2011 on food for infants and young children and food for special medical purposes. the primary objectives of this report include the incorporation of low calorie dietary foods (lcdf) into the scope of this regulation by including them in the definition of food for medical purposes, the increased legal coverage of people suffering from food intolerance, and ensuring that products for newborns and children are placed on the market free from pesticides and any other toxic substance. the main aim is to simplify the current legal framework, which should apply equally to imported and exported foodstuffs, thus facilitating the application of the precautionary principle. the proper functioning of the internal market depends on this, and the health protection of the most vulnerable cannot be left out of the picture.
in writing. - this proposal aims to create specific legislation for infants, children under 3 years of age and certain patients, who are considered vulnerable and therefore need high standards of protection, in relation to imported and exported foodstuffs. the commission proposal lays down a single list of substances which may be added to food and excludes certain specific features from this proposal, in particular sports foods and the concept of dietetic food. the commission is also proposing to simplify product labels so that they are clear and perceptible to consumers. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's position that this regulation should include an obligation to include gluten in products if they are intended for a low-calorie diet. i am voting in favour of this proposal because i believe that once again the european consumer is protected.
in writing. - this report is consistent with the commission's position of limiting the scope of the regulation to a limited number of specific foodstuffs, paying particular attention to infants, children under 3 years of age and certain patients for whom special diets are essential. although it excludes from its scope meals intended to replace all or part of the daily diet and sports foods specifically for intense muscular effort, the regulation includes low-calorie dietary products, including them in the category of food intended for medical purposes, for the treatment, authorisation and medical monitoring of obese patients. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the food supply. the committee also expressed concern about the need to ensure that products for newborns, young children and other vulnerable populations are free of pesticides as well as any other toxic substances. we voted in favour of these controls because we are in favour of them.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this text because it is a text which defends european citizenship. in this case, promoting access to eu documentation in all languages will stimulate more active participation in eu decision-making processes. the eu brings us rights and benefits, and this is certainly one of them.
in writing. − citizen participation is an essential element of democratic governance and well-designed, structured and well-communicated public consultations are an important instrument for the transparency of the european union, thus enabling european citizens to play an increasingly active role in the european construction process. the european commission should therefore take advantage of all available technological resources to actively communicate with citizens by disseminating public consultations. it should guarantee the right of every european citizen to address the european institutions in any of the official languages of the union and that there is no linguistic discrimination between consultations. finally, consultations should be easy to understand and should be carried out within sufficiently long time limits to allow greater participation by citizens. i therefore support this resolution.
in writing. - it is never too late to say that it is essential and urgent to bring the eu closer to its citizens and to make the decision-making process of the institutions closer, more transparent and more scrutinisable. to do this, all citizens must be able to address the institutions in all the official eu languages. this is particularly important in the context of public consultation procedures. they shall be available in all official languages and all replies shall be treated equally, without discrimination on the basis of the language used.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution tabled by the epp and s&d political groups following a statement by the commission on the public consultations and their availability in all the languages of the european union for the following reasons: meps represent the peoples of 27 countries who express themselves differently, but all have the same rights of access to documents dealt with in the european institutions; public consultations are excellent opportunities to share europe's ideas and should be moments of public participation and a true exercise of european citizenship; although multilingualism is very expensive, an effort should be made to provide the next budgets with resources to enable public consultations to be carried out in all the official eu languages; very special attention is given to citizens with disabilities who are expected to be consulted using accessible formats; finally, i welcome the fact that the commission has proposed that 2013 be the european year of citizens as a way of making all europeans aware of the benefits and rights conferred on them by european citizenship.
in writing. - we voted in favour of this resolution because all eu documents must be easily accessible and available in all the official languages of the european union. we have long been denouncing, repeatedly and in detail, the abuse of multilingualism by the european institutions. it is a condition of democracy in an eu with 23 official languages that all of them are respected and treated on an equal basis. which it doesn't. parliamentary work is an example of this. it is regrettable that the same political groups which now recognise the importance of ensuring respect for multilingualism in public consultation processes have approved cuts in the european parliament's translation and interpretation services, which compromise the same respect for the different eu languages. that was a criticism we included in our resolution. the statements by the european commission and some representatives of the most populous countries (especially the united kingdom) are worrying, openly saying that multilingualism should be respected as far as budgetary constraints allow. we will continue to be vigilant in the future, fighting against any and all limitations and attempts to undermine democracy (even more) by the european institutions.
in writing. − public consultation of documents, and access to them in all eu languages, is essential if all citizens are to feel fully integrated into the eu. for that reason, there should be no worries of any kind for that objective to be a reality. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which, among other things, calls on the commission to guarantee the right of persons with disabilities to be consulted through the use of accessible formats.
in writing. − the aim of this motion for a resolution is to enhance the role of public consultations within the eu, as they are one of the main instruments for the implementation of the eu's transparency policy. in order to address the lack of communication and information between citizens and the union, it is intended to enhance the full use of existing communication channels to distribute the consultations to the general public and to conduct them, in a selective manner, together with ngos and other stakeholders. it also aims to ensure that the right of every citizen of the union to address the european institutions in any of the official languages of the union is fully respected and applied, while ensuring that all public consultations are treated equally, so that there is no linguistic discrimination between consultations. i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that citizen participation is an essential element of good democratic governance.
in writing. − public and citizen participation is an essential component of the functioning of european democratic governance. communication with the general public should therefore be developed through effective means of communication, in particular by promoting public consultations, to ensure that everyone can participate and have access to documents in any of the official languages of the european union. in addition, the european parliament also requires that all public consultations be visible to the general public and be carried out over a period of time long enough to allow effective participation by the general public.
in writing. − the european institutions regularly speak of the importance of involving citizens in eu policies. while it is true that political and economic decisions increasingly taken at the supranational level will not be the best way of bringing people closer to the decision-making centres, it is also true that there are basic measures aimed at fulfilling the essential right of citizens to information, in this case information on eu documents. we have always been uncompromising in our defence of the principle of multilingualism in the european institutions and of the equal treatment of all those who want to access information. it is clear that the principle of linguistic non-discrimination will only be guaranteed by safeguarding the technical and human means to ensure it and, therefore, by guaranteeing sufficient financial appropriations for interpretation and translation, safeguards the principle which many who now support this resolution did not defend during the debate on the ep budget. this issue can never be understood in terms of the technical and administrative functioning of the european institutions, but as a fundamental political decision that ensures a minimum of formal equality between the actors and eu citizens.
in writing. - i support this joint resolution insofar as it considers that respect for human rights and freedom of culture, identity, religion and association are founding principles of the eu and its foreign policy. it is now clear that the eu-china human rights dialogue has not brought about any significant improvement in the human rights situation of the tibetan people and as such this resolution is timely. in this context, i would like to stress that eu-china partnerships must always take into account the values and principles that the eu has been advocating in its foreign policy and in this regard must step up efforts to address the human rights situation in china.
in writing. − the european parliament's (ep) concern for respect for human rights is recognised worldwide, and the sakharov prize for freedom of thought is a pillar of this concern. the human rights violations in tibet have been discussed and condemned by this parliament. in reality, the european institutions cannot be silent about the violations of the fundamental rights of tibetans who are being denied their fundamental freedoms and guarantees. china cannot curtail tibetan freedom, language and culture, nor resort to dam building to annihilate a people and their millenary culture. it is a whole people who are suffering and who are willing to sacrifice their lives for the sake of their identity and freedom, as happened with the self-immolation of the monks. china must open tibet's borders to free visits, including by un observers, and sit down at the negotiating table with the dalai lama. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because the eu must promote the defence of human rights throughout the world and denounce situations of human rights violations, even when perpetrated by great powers such as china.
in writing. - in the absence of objective and up-to-date data, this resolution revisits past arguments and invents new ones to pursue a line of confrontation and interference which is in breach of international law. the resolution makes considerations which we cannot follow and is based on assumptions which do not correspond to reality. the majority of parliament implicitly continues to refer to tibet as a territory occupied by china, when the powers that are instigating and supporting the separatist movements in this autonomous region are not even questioning the territorial integrity of the people's republic of china. it is never too much to recall that tibet has been linked to china in varying degrees since the 13th century, and that at the time of the chinese people's revolution in 1949 tibet was under a feudal regime in which the majority of the population were serfs and slaves, with a strong concentration of land and means of subsistence. and that in 1959 a separatist group led by the dalai lama launched an armed rebellion to defend the dark and backward feudal serfdom.
in writing. the situation in tibet is incomprehensible and the international community, and in particular the eu, cannot remain indifferent to what is happening there. anything that is an attack on the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens must be condemned anywhere in the world. the eu must send a clear signal to china that it cannot continue to attack the rights of tibetans without suffering the necessary consequences.
in writing. - the european parliament and the council adopted a resolution on the situation of human rights in tibet. this dialogue has not led to any significant improvement in the human rights situation in the territory, as the chinese authorities continue to impose restrictive security measures that restrict freedom of expression, freedom of association and freedom of belief. it is intended to increase and intensify efforts to address the human rights situation of the tibetan people. the eu also calls on the chinese authorities to grant genuine autonomy to the territory for historical and cultural reasons. i voted in favour.
in writing. the situation in tibet continues to deteriorate with total disregard for freedom of identity, culture, religion and association. the eu-china dialogue on human rights has not yet shown any fruitful results, as the democratic trampling on tibet continues. the eu must continue its efforts, alongside the international community, to reach a consensus that protects the tibetan people. the future eu special representative for human rights should have as one of his main objectives the political settlement of the tibetan issue and the implementation of the memorandum for genuine autonomy. i condemn in the strongest terms the actions of the people's republic of china and the continuing violation of human rights in tibet.
in writing. - this resolution makes statements with which we disagree and is based on assumptions which do not correspond to reality. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, and for the establishment of a european network of information and communication networks. it is never too much to recall that tibet has been linked to china in varying degrees since the 13th century, and that at the time of the chinese people's revolution in 1949 tibet was under a feudal regime in which the majority of the population were serfs and slaves, with a strong concentration of land and means of subsistence. and that in 1959, a separatist group led by the dalai lama launched an armed rebellion to defend the backward feudal serfdom. in the absence of objective and more up-to-date data, this resolution revisits past arguments and invents new ones to continue its line of confrontation and interference in china's internal affairs, in defiance of international law. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the eu's external relations are not affected by the crisis. all this serves as a pretext for seeking to promote destabilisation and to impose the geostrategic and economic interests of the eu and its major powers.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that the single market act aims to re-energize the debate on the current state of implementation of the 12 keys to fostering growth and confidence in the internal market, which contains 50 recommendations identified by the european commission. this resolution touches on the governance of the single market, on which the commission should publish a specific communication. the resolution is intended to be a complete balance of the single market which is the pillar of the success of the growth strategy for the european union. i believe that only the completion of the single market, which takes account of the balanced development of the economy and of the social, economic and environmental dimensions, can be an excellent engine for the growth strategy of the european union.
in writing. − the single market is the key engine for economic growth and employment in the european union. however, european citizens are not yet benefiting fully from the potential of the single market. at the heart of the eu's growth agenda must be two objectives, to strengthen the single market and to underpin it with appropriate economic governance. the report therefore reiterates the need to reduce the transposition deficit of the single market directives to 0.5% by the end of 2012. it stressed the need to rapidly use unused eu funds for measures to combat effectively the high rate of youth unemployment. it called on the commission to make the development of the digital single market a priority, allowing consumers full access to more competitive offers of goods and services. the need to promote the role of smes in the single market by guaranteeing access to credit and finance is emphasised, while advocating the improvement of basic conditions for industry and smes, in particular by strengthening the european investment bank's activities in providing support for access to finance. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − in 2012, the single market is 20 years old and over the past 20 years many steps have been taken towards its realisation, with the development of various tools and instruments. it is also now undeniable that the single market is a key engine for economic growth and employment in the european union. the internal market is the best tool we have to restore growth to the eu economies, especially at this time of severe economic and financial crisis, and it must be used correctly, effectively and decisively. putting the internal market at the service of citizens and businesses is essential to boosting the european economy, creating jobs and improving competitiveness.
in writing. - the current economic and financial crisis requires us to be diligent and to look for all the means and resources that can help us to overcome this desire. to do this we need a strategy for a stronger and more united europe, building not only monetary and economic union but also banking union, as the president of the commission has advocated. the existence of a single internal market is at the heart of the creation of the european union and we must take the necessary measures to make it work better. it is not enough to say that the single market is part of the eu, we must also be able to exploit the growth potential it holds. to do this, member states must be able to take advantage of the directives adopted by transposing them into national law. legislation that is not enforced is not only useless but also harmful and deprives citizens of their rights. i welcome the 12 measures for growth and jobs presented and all the efforts made to put the single market at the service of business and the citizen. i welcome the understanding reached on this matter which made it possible to table a joint resolution by all the political groups, for which i voted in favour.
in writing. - this resolution, from the committee on the internal market, is the traditional celebration of the virtues of the single market. it is also, as usual, the responsibility of the member states to promote, develop and improve the application of single market legislation. it is argued that the commission should swiftly and severely impose sanctions on member states which commit infringements of single market legislation. the commission continued to advocate the end of protectionist economic attitudes on the part of the member states, the full implementation of the services directive, the application of the new public procurement legislation, the implementation of single european sky ii and the privatisation of rail transport. in other words, the opening up of new and promising markets by the major european economic groups, including (now mainly) in the service sector, is called for. we agree on one thing: the sacrosanct free competition in the single market is a cornerstone of this integration process. this principle, in the treaties and in practice, takes precedence over all other principles, including social rights. that is why we oppose this process. that is why we voted against this report.
in writing. - a market of 500 million people must be tapped. the single market has evolved very significantly over the years and has been perfected. it is without doubt one of the main instruments to help europe out of this crisis which has dragged on for too long. if this instrument is used well, we will have taken another important step towards overcoming this long-standing crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, in which i stress the call on the commission and the member states to coordinate their fiscal policies appropriately in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion at national and european level, in order to prevent distortions in the functioning of the single market, to ensure a level playing field for businesses and citizens and to ensure sound public finances.
in writing. − the european single market is the key engine for economic growth and employment in the european union. however, europeans have not yet fully benefited from the potential of the single market in many areas, and new incentives are needed, in particular to ensure effective occupational mobility in europe, as well as adequate social cohesion, and to facilitate cross-border buying and selling. the single market act must therefore address the eu's socioeconomic problems and strive for a market that serves citizens, benefiting both consumers and businesses. the development of the digital single market, allowing consumers full access to more competitive offers of goods and services, and the promotion of the role of smes in the single market, by guaranteeing access to credit and finance, in particular by strengthening the european investment bank's actions in this field, should also be given priority. i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − the european single market brings immense benefits to the citizens of the european union and allows new business opportunities to be created, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises. it is essential for economic growth and the promotion of employment in europe and should not therefore be seen in isolation from other european policies. the completion of the single market is more necessary than ever to boost the european economy and thus provide a concrete and adequate response to the current crisis. in this respect, the single market act is of strategic importance and, as parliament urged in this document, the european commission should urgently submit detailed and concrete proposals by spring 2013 on the twelve vectors contained in the act.
in writing. - this resolution is a celebration of the virtues of the single market, stressing that member states should promote, develop and improve the implementation of single market legislation (the resolution argues that the commission should 'quickly and severely' apply sanctions to member states that infringe single market legislation). the resolution calls for an end to 'economic protectionist attitudes on the part of member states', the strengthening of the single market and its support by appropriate economic governance, the full implementation of the services directive, the application of the new public procurement legislation, the implementation of single european sky ii and the privatisation of rail transport. while the resolution also puts "the need to rapidly apply unused eu funds to measures that effectively combat the high rate of youth unemployment", it completely ignores that it was precisely the growth and implementation of the single market and the colonisation of the weaker economies that constituted one of the main causes of the growth of unemployment. we voted against it.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, but consider that it must make explicit reference to the need for workers to be involved in corporate governance if they really want to develop on the model of these companies, since it is necessary first of all to clarify and make transparent the legal ownership of company structures.
in writing. − the european union's regulatory framework in the field of company law and governance should reflect the increasing tendency of european companies to operate across borders within the eu, as well as the continuing integration of european markets. the overall objective is to allow for more effective competition between european companies and to achieve more ambitious targets in a highly competitive environment, while ensuring that the interests of creditors, shareholders, members and employees are adequately protected. in order to meet the specific needs of smes, the commission is called upon to make increased efforts with a view to adopting the statute of the european private company (eps), which can take full account of the interests of all parties. it reiterated its call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal laying down measures to facilitate the crossborder mobility of european companies. it called on the commission to present an action plan indicating the way forward following the public consultation, which should set out short, medium and long-term initiatives aimed at improving the regulatory framework for european company law. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - the proper functioning of the internal market depends to a large extent on the rules of european company law. this is why we welcome the recent public consultation by the commission on the future of european company law, which should point the way forward with legislative initiatives to simplify the environment for companies in the area of company law. reducing unnecessary administrative burdens, enabling companies to operate effectively within the single market, and ensuring that the interests of creditors, shareholders, members and employees are adequately protected should be pursued.
in writing. the motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled following a question with oral answer by mr klaus heiner lehne on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, concerns the future of european company law. we all know that the role of small and mediumsized enterprises is crucial if we are to emerge from the crisis. everything we can do to revitalize, strengthen and promote the growth of these societies must be done. i therefore welcome the proposal to draw up an action plan on european company law, drawn up with the participation of the workers, which i am sure will make an essential contribution to the construction and consolidation of the single market. by regulating and facilitating crossborder business operations, we are promoting growth and competitiveness in the business sector. 21 million small and mediumsized enterprises will benefit from these measures, and we all have to win. i voted in favour of this proposal and i urge the commission to move forward with other measures such as the right to codify companies, using the internet and ending bureaucracy, and the european private company law.
in writing. - this resolution is based, inter alia, on the single market act and the resolution on aspects of private law, commercial law, etc. which are covered in the stockholm programme. the aim is to create an eu regulatory framework that facilitates companies to operate across borders, in particular with regard to the transfer of their headquarters, and their ever deeper integration into the single market and european markets, allowing for more effective competition and protecting creditors, shareholders, partners and, last but not least, employees. we do not discount the practical problems facing businesses, especially small and mediumsized enterprises operating in more than one country. it is certainly important to try to give them the most appropriate solution. but the whole philosophy of this report goes beyond responding to this need, going, for example, further with proposals such as the adoption of the statute of the european private company, with which we cannot agree.
in writing. - without an efficient internal market, our chances of successfully emerging from the crisis are rapidly diminishing. however, the effectiveness of the internal market depends to a large extent on the rules of european company law. the commission has therefore done well to sponsor a public consultation on the future of european company law, which should point the way forward with legislative initiatives that simplify the environment for companies in the area of company law. the conclusions of this consultation have led to a number of relevant ideas, including an attempt to reduce unnecessary administrative burdens, to enable companies to operate effectively within the single market, and to ensure that the interests of creditors, shareholders, members and employees are adequately protected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution, recalling that the future of european company law must be based on an impact assessment which takes into account the interests of all parties, including investors, owners, creditors and employees, in full compliance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. − the current eu regulatory framework in the field of company law and governance needs to be adapted to reflect the increasing tendency of european companies to operate across borders within the eu, as well as the continued integration of european markets, in order to allow for more effective competition between european companies. in order to meet the specific needs of smes, this report, which i support, calls on the commission to make greater efforts with a view to adopting the statute of the european private company (epc), which can take full account of the interests of all parties. i think that there is an untapped potential in the legal forms of companies at european level which needs to be exploited, developed and promoted, and i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − european company law is a key element in the completion of the internal market, and given the evolution of the dimension of cross-border trade and the integration of markets, business models and the current situation itself, a clear and transparent legal framework is needed for the natural development of the business climate. the mobility of enterprises within the single market is a prerequisite for increasing european competitiveness and for overcoming the deep crisis we are in. i therefore congratulate the ec on the initiative launched on the future of european company law, which aims to simplify the business environment for companies by reducing unnecessary administrative obstacles and protecting the interests of creditors, entrepreneurs, member states, members and employees. i hope that these initiatives will have the desired practical effects and will be another incentive for the internationalisation of companies, especially smes.
in writing. - this resolution is based, among other documents, on the single market act and the resolution on aspects of private and commercial law, which are covered by the stockholm programme. the express aim is to create an eu regulatory framework that facilitates companies to operate across borders, in particular with regard to the transfer of their headquarters, and their ever deeper integration into the single market and european markets, allowing for more effective competition and protecting creditors, shareholders, members and, last but not least, employees. the commission is proposing to adopt the statute for a european private company, which minimises the role of employees in company decisions, and proposes a legislative initiative laying down measures to facilitate the cross-border mobility of companies within the eu, which can be deeply damaging to the interests of member states and employees.
in writing. - i approve this report because i consider it of the utmost importance that an employment package be adopted to restore employment. i agree with a framework for a european employment strategy to identify opportunities that can help create jobs and to establish european union funds that can be used in the long term as an investment in human capital. i am aware of the importance of this european framework for employment, but i believe it is pertinent that this plan will only be possible to achieve through the coordination of a european investment plan, a coherent european industrial strategy and investment in public services based on new revenues, including new financial transaction taxes and eurobonds, giving priority to investments that promote a sustainable economy, quality jobs and social justice in order to combat inequalities.
in writing. - the rate of growth of the unemployment rate is alarming. some 6 million jobs have been lost in europe since 2008, and the outlook for 2012 is even more unfavourable, with eu gdp forecast to stagnate and recessions in several member states. we must find solutions to end the human tragedy in which so many people live without the means to support their families. as is the desperation of many young people with no prospects of employment. the high level of youth unemployment requires a specific approach, with specific european financial support, which could involve the mobilisation of unused structural funds. i support the idea of creating a european investment pact that can help to propel europe out of the crisis by ensuring a transition from the restrictive approach of budgetary austerity to a more balanced approach with concrete proposals at national and european level that prioritise investment in key areas, providing sustainable growth and job creation. only by taking decisive action to accelerate job creation and ensure a job-creating recovery will we be able to meet the eu 2020 strategy target of creating some 17.6 million new jobs.
in writing. − the economic crisis has led to the loss of some 6 million jobs between 2008 and 2012, making unemployment one of the biggest challenges facing european society. however, and in order to meet the targets set in the eu 2020 strategy, which requires that 75% of people aged 20-64 are in employment, 17.6 million new jobs will have to be created by 2020. the union therefore needs a strong horizontal policy to combat unemployment, which unquestionably requires strong, cohesive governance and economic integration capable of responding to the needs of the union and its member states, of containing the crisis and of achieving ambitious targets such as those proposed in the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled following a statement by the commission pursuant to rule 110 (2), deals with 'a job-creating recovery'. the measures taken by member states (ms) to combat the crisis have led to the bankruptcy of thousands of businesses and the unemployment of millions of workers. unemployment rates have never been so high, especially in countries with financial aid programmes and among young people, reaching 50% in spain. the average unemployment rate in the european union (eu) is over 10%. in this context, measures to combat this scourge and promote growth and employment are urgently needed. i welcome the adoption of this package of measures to stimulate growth, which i voted in favour of, in particular by facilitating access to finance for small and medium-sized enterprises, increasing the mobility of workers, supporting the integration of young people into the labour market, promoting the creation of green jobs and building a more inclusive society. i hope that these measures will be transposed into the legislation of the member states so as not to disappoint the expectations of european citizens which have now been created.
in writing. - the european commission's employment package advocates reducing the burden of social security contributions for workers, i.e. it advocates reducing labour costs, decapitalising social security systems, opening the way to their privatisation and theft of workers, also in this way. for this reason, the 'social economy' and 'social enterprises', which replace closed public services, are presented as business opportunities by the commission. the 'productivity' of wages is also advocated as a way of putting even more pressure on wages and reducing their real value, eroded by inflation. the idea of flexible working hours, the introduction of time banks and the mobility of workers is advocated. a package for employment which might well be called a package for exploitation. this resolution, with its social aspects, more or less flourishing, supports the commission's package. that is why we voted against it.
in writing. - the crisis has brought unemployment figures to some eu countries that are completely unacceptable. jobs are being lost at a very rapid rate, and we have not yet found an antidote to combat it. only sustained economic growth can bring hope for new job creation, and to achieve this growth we need to implement growth policies and strong economic integration to be able to achieve this goal. there must be common growth policies if the eu is to grow in unison and not in a fragmented way.
in writing. - a job-creating recovery requires support, guidance and support for young people in the transition from education to working life. to this end, it is vital that the commission harmonises future policy proposals in this area, such as the 'youth on the move' and 'opportunities for youth' initiatives. it would also be important, and i emphasize this, for the member states to start an exchange of best practices in the fight against youth unemployment. in this context i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − according to eurostat, in april 2012, the unemployment rate in the euro area was 11% and in the 27 member states it reached 10.3%, a figure clearly exceeded by the youth unemployment rate of 36.6%. at a time of high labour market difficulties, it is essential that member states direct the application of the structural funds towards faster and more effective job creation, as portugal has already done with the impulso jovem programme strategic plan of initiatives for youth employability and support for smes. in this sense, i believe it is essential to support smes in creating jobs and social enterprises in their activities, to promote entrepreneurship and the various microfinance instruments and to adapt qualifications to the real needs of the labour market. i also think it is important to encourage increased european mobility, and to this end there must be mutual recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications which will facilitate the entry into the labour market of many highly qualified young people. i would like to congratulate the european commission on the development of a new package of measures aimed at creating more job opportunities, considering that it is urgent to discuss and implement the proposed measures.
in writing. - this resolution, while discussing some measures which may be positive, does not depart from the employment package proposed by the ec, in particular its proposals on the reduction of capital charges for workers' social security contributions, i.e. the reduction of labour costs, the decapitalization of social security systems, which pave the way for their privatisation. where does the ec say that company formation should be channelled? for this new sector of opportunity that they call the social economy and social enterprises, in order to replace the closed public services, turning the rights of the people into business opportunities. the package of measures also contains other measures such as the need to increase flexibility in working time (working time, time banks, etc.), a position supported by this resolution, from which we have withdrawn by voting against.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of this resolution because it deals adequately with a serious attack on human dignity. the scale of the problem is daunting and as such needs a response. the eu has been an example to the world and must continue its fight for non-violence and against the violation of fundamental rights. it is therefore important that the united nations also take a strong stand on this matter, in line with what is called for in this text.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on female genital mutilation. female genital mutilation is a barbaric act of extreme violence against children, young people and women and is a violation of fundamental rights and the rights of the child which cannot in any case be justified by any tradition or religion. we therefore call on the united nations general assembly and the member states of the european union to commit themselves to prohibiting all forms of female genital mutilation and to providing for effective sanctions against perpetrators. i also stress the importance of mobilising and raising awareness among civil society and national, regional and local authorities of the risks and consequences of female genital mutilation in order to eradicate these practices.
in writing. - today, 140 million women and girls have been the victims of female genital mutilation, a barbaric practice with irreversible physical and psychological consequences, often leading to death. this practice, justified on religious grounds in many parts of the world, particularly in africa, is nothing but a clear violation of the rights of women and girls and must be combated. i therefore welcome the decision to bring the issue of fgm to the 67th session of the united nations general assembly and call on the general assembly to adopt a general ban on this brutal and unjustifiable practice against women and girls.
in writing. - according to some studies, there are 140 million women worldwide who have been victims of female genital mutilation (fgm). in europe, 500,000 women are victims of this horrendous practice and 180,000 are at risk. it is one of the worst forms of violence, a violation of women's rights, which no culture or religion can defend. the joint motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled following a statement by the vice-president of the commission, catherine ashton, replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by various political groups, deals with the need to eliminate female genital mutilation. for decades this practice has been tacitly accepted by some societies, but it is urgent to denounce and eliminate it. i therefore commend the courage of the many women, especially african women, who have worked for this cause. these are harmful practices, which violate the rights of children and women, and which jeopardize the health of the victims. because it is urgent to put an end to this scourge - degrading to women but a disgrace to society - which affects 3 million women worldwide every year, i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution and i urge the commission to integrate the rights of children and women into all eu foreign policy.
in writing. - according to who data, some 100 to 140 million women and girls have been subjected to genital mutilation and some 3 million will be at risk annually. in 2008, it was estimated that about 500,000 women living in europe suffered the consequences of female genital mutilation every day, and that about 180,000 were at risk annually. following earlier resolutions by parliament on the fight against female genital mutilation, appeals and recommendations are again being made to various institutions, including the un, to put an end to this practice. in addition, attention is drawn to the importance of awareness-raising and mobilisation actions, education and training of the different actors directly or indirectly dealing with this reality, including the families of the victims and the communities in which they are located. we voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the number of women and girls who are subjected to female genital mutilation is absolutely terrifying, we are talking about 140 million people worldwide who are victims of this practice, which is unjustifiable today. the motives behind this practice, most of them religious, are entirely dispensable. i am in favour of this matter being seriously discussed at the 67th session of the united nations general assembly, and of it being discussed at length there, and i hope that a resolution will be passed prohibiting this barbaric practice.
in writing. − female genital mutilation is an act of violence against women, which intentionally causes damage to the female genital organs for non-medical reasons, constituting a violation of their fundamental rights, in particular the right to personal safety and integrity and to physical and mental health, as well as to their sexual and reproductive health. the report calls on the united nations to adopt a resolution at its 67th session banning female genital mutilation worldwide, harmonising the actions of member countries and formulating recommendations and guidelines for the development and strengthening of regional and international legal instruments and national legislation in this field. it also calls on civil society to support, through the allocation of appropriate financial resources, specific and innovative programmes and to disseminate best practices that respond to the needs and priorities of young women in vulnerable situations, including those who have undergone female genital mutilation. i believe that genital mutilation is a serious violation of human rights which can in no way be justified by respect for different cultural traditions or initiation rites, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the practice of female genital mutilation still affects 140 million women and young people, and every year 3 million more girls are subjected to this abuse, which causes irreparable harm and sometimes leads to the deaths of hundreds of people. this illegal practice constitutes a violation of women and human dignity, with permanent physical and mental effects, and there is no justification for such acts. at international level, states should work together to create a legal framework that prohibits all forms of genital mutilation and punishes those responsible. the necessary support must be given to the affected populations so that this practice is eliminated and seen as inhuman.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the report because it is above all a report which defends the health of citizens and calls on the commission and the member states to strengthen cooperation within the existing legal framework, in particular in the areas of supervision, market surveillance and inspection, and to strengthen controls in order to provide a better guarantee of the safety of patients, especially those exposed to high-risk medical devices, as is the case.
in writing. − the fraud by poly implant prothèse (pip) has highlighted a lack of cooperation between member states and the international community on information sharing and adverse event reporting, as well as a flaw in the current system for certifying compliance with the essential health and safety requirements. the present motion for a resolution, which i support, recommends the urgent revision of the medical devices directive with a view to building capacity to detect and minimise the risk of fraud. member states shall carry out rigorous inspections of the highest risk devices at least once a year. the commission is called upon to develop an appropriate legal framework to ensure the safety of breast implants and medical technology in general. the improved functioning of the medical device surveillance system is advocated by actively facilitating and encouraging patients, patient associations and healthcare professionals to report all incidents and adverse effects to the competent authorities. the commission and the member states should strengthen cooperation within the existing legal framework, in particular in the areas of supervision, market surveillance and inspection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on defective silicone gel breast implants manufactured by the french company pip, because it includes proposals to develop a legal framework to ensure the safety of breast implants and medical technology in general throughout the eu, including by banning advertising of cosmetic implants.
in writing. − the pip breast implant scandal has exposed the flaws in the current eu medical device certification system. breast implants are classified as active implantable medical devices. in order to be placed on the market, according to directive 2007/47/ec, they have to fulfil three cumulative requirements: they must meet the requirements laid down by the legislation in force, bear the ce marking and be subject to a conformity assessment by a health authority. the ce marking is, as we see, a prerequisite for placing medical devices on the market and is also a guarantee of compliance with the applicable legislation, attesting that the medical device is fit for its purpose and safe. it turns out that this whole procedure failed in the case of pip breast implants and may have failed in countless others, putting the health of europeans at risk. it is therefore essential that in the next revision of the medical devices directive a common procedure is ensured which ensures first of all the safety of medical devices and the absence of risks to the life and health of patients.
in writing. - pip, a french medical device company, has sold 470,000 breast implants which have been placed in women in 71 countries. some of these implants have caused health problems and had to be removed, causing harm to patients who had allowed them to be placed. the motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled following questions with oral questions by representatives of all the political groups in the european parliament, concerns defective silicone gel breast implants manufactured by pip. i welcome the adoption of a directive on medical devices which prevents misleading advertising and holds companies producing medical devices accountable. when working with humans, all stages of the production process, from research to laboratory testing and mass production, must be subject to continuous monitoring, as human life is at stake. permanent traceability is required to increase the security and confidence of citizens. i voted in favour of this resolution because the health of patients must be at the forefront and we cannot allow any kind of fraud, let alone when it involves medical devices.
in writing. - following the scandal in france involving pip's silicone breast implants, this resolution refers to the need to strengthen cooperation between member states and to increase market surveillance, surveillance and inspection to provide a better guarantee of patient safety in medium and high risk medical devices. for inspections, annual frequency and without prior notice across the supply chain and suppliers is suggested, as well as the move towards a system of pre-market authorisation, in particular for the mentioned categories. the exchange of information between national authorities on adverse effects of medical devices and their withdrawal from the market can improve the current picture, both in terms of rapid response at national level and in terms of reducing impacts on patients. the commission is also proposing a single european database to bring together information on medical devices on the market, the record of economic transactions, surveillance and market surveillance initiatives, which should not be used to promote economic interests rather than patient safety or to jeopardise the vital protection of patients' data. we supported this resolution.
in writing. the problems encountered with breast implants, manufactured by the french company pip, have raised the alarm about the problems in quality control of medical devices. when it comes to public health, all care is too little to safeguard citizens. it is therefore essential that in the next revision of the medical devices directive a common procedure is ensured which ensures first of all the safety of medical devices and the absence of risks to the life and health of patients.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution, underlining the call on the commission to develop an appropriate legal framework to ensure the safety of these products and medical technology in general.
in writing. − this resolution follows the investigation of the french manufacturer (poly implant prothèse - pip) for fraudulently using a low-quality material (industrial silicone) different from that declared in the documents submitted for conformity assessment (silicone approved for medical use). this fraud has exposed a failure at european and national level, in particular with regard to the lack of cooperation between member states and the international community on information sharing and adverse reaction reporting, as well as the lack of traceability of the raw material used in medical devices. it is therefore intended that member states strengthen cooperation within the existing legal framework, in particular in the areas of oversight, market surveillance and inspection, and strengthen controls in order to provide a better guarantee of the safety of patients, especially those exposed to high-risk medical devices.
in writing. − the pip case in france has shown that there is a failure of safety and surveillance controls and marketing requirements, as the fraudulent use of low quality material, namely industrial silicone, in the application of breast implants has been proven. it is suspected that over 40,000 women have these same prosthetics. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution, because i believe in the need to strengthen the protection of patients and therefore i call on the commission to develop its own legal framework to ensure the safety of the insertion of breast implants.
in writing. − according to the findings of the french health authorities, the french company pip is under investigation for fraudulent use of industrial silicone other than that declared in the documents submitted for evaluation - silicone for medical use. the resolution adopted in parliament today refers to the need to strengthen cooperation between member states and to increase market surveillance, surveillance and inspection to provide a better guarantee of patient safety in respect of medium and high risk medical devices. the exchange of information between national authorities on adverse effects of medical devices and their withdrawal from the market can improve the current situation. the commission is also proposing a single european database to bring together information on medical devices on the market, the recording of economic transactions, surveillance and market surveillance initiatives, which should not be used to promote economic interests but to ensure patient safety and to put at risk the protection of individual data.
mr president, the deterioration of the security situation in the sahel-saharan region is leading to a deterioration in the living conditions and respect for human rights of the already very poor people of several countries, with women and children being particularly sacrificed. the cdao, and this cannot be ignored, has in this context acted in a very critical way, endorsing the coup solutions in mali and guinea-bissau. the european foreign and security policy and european defence mission for the sahel, which is being prepared, is fully justified, not only by the european union's security interests, which are also threatened by the interaction of networks of organised crime, drugs, arms trade, natural resources, human beings and, of course, terrorist networks, but above all because the european union must be responsible for exercising the responsibility to protect those populations with which it is so closely linked, naturally in conjunction with the united nations and the african union.
mr president, this is not the first time that we have discussed the maguindanao massacre in this parliament. we had a resolution at the beginning of 2010 on this massacre which killed more than 500 people involved in local elections on one of the philippine islands. the trial began in 2010, almost a year later, but according to the calculations of a prosecuting attorney, with the number of witnesses brought and the slowness with which the process is unfolding, this trial could probably take a century. we had high hopes in the election of the new philippine president, mr benigno aquino, and we had hopes that this would also mean the end of impunity, and unfortunately that is not happening and it is necessary that the international institutions address the government of the philippines and say once and for all whether it is possible to develop this trial in conditions, that they do so, if they cannot, that they ask for international help. if you can dismantle the more than 70 private militias in that region, do it, if not, ask for international help. the international community can help, so please ask and be honest about what you need.
the situation of minorities in iran is serious and, what is worse, is deteriorating, and this is obviously accompanied by a political situation in the country which is already very complicated even in relation to the majority, say, the persian iranian, whose rights are being violated and robbed of them, as in the case of the elections in which we saw that the results were tampered with. for ethnic minorities, unfortunately it is much worse, the uprisings that have been ethnic minorities have resulted in large-scale arrests, ethnic minority prisoners are treated worse than prisoners of the majority of the iranian population, the justice system is completely distorted to the disadvantage of ethnic minorities, ethnic minority women are even more mistreated than women in general in iran are already and also the schools in the areas of ethnic minorities have a much worse quality than the schools in general in iran. so it's a picture that is, all of it, very, very disturbing. to this must be added, of course, the continuation and even the increase in the use of the death penalty in iran, for example, in the prosecution of people for crimes of sexual orientation and the execution of young people. we therefore call on the iranian government to obviously end these practices and change its treatment of ethnic minorities, but we do so, i'll be honest, with very little hope that the iranian government will listen to us. what is also important is that the iranian government thinks about what it is doing and thinks about the storm winds that it is sowing with these practices, it is dividing the ethnic, social, cultural fabric of iran, it is sowing the seeds of its own misfortune in the future when the people of iran rise up. and let's just hope that by then, the various ethnic minorities, with the iranian majority, can come together, one day, to bring down this government.
mr president, we have created a free slot in our agenda for tomorrow. my proposal is that we could fill this free slot in anticipation of another debate which is on our agenda for thursday, the debate on the oral question on the acaa agreement – the agreement on conformity assessment and acceptance between the eu and israel. the reason why i am asking is that this is an oral question to the commission and commissioner de gucht will be here tomorrow but will not be here on thursday. it is crucial that the commissioner is here to participate in the debate. i therefore ask that we change our agenda and hold this debate tomorrow. i wonder whether the other author of this oral question, our colleague elmar brok, would concur and join me in asking for this change in the agenda?
ask him about the blue card procedure. thank you very much, mr president. mr el khadraoui, you and your group support this directive, you and your group support the liberalization of the sector. they will be held accountable for their consequences to the workers and to the populations. i said that liberalization would make the market work better and gave the example of the freight sector. what i wanted to ask you was what your comment was on the fact that the german multinational deutsche bahn now dominates more than 60% of the freight market, precisely the one where liberalisation first advanced. this is the consequence of liberalization. what is your comment, mr. el-khadraoui?
mr president, i should like to begin by congratulating my fellow rapporteur on this report. this is a matter of the utmost importance for europe. at a time of serious economic, financial and social crisis, protecting intellectual property rights by fighting counterfeiting is fundamental to the european economy. such protection should enhance research performance and promote innovation, ensure scientific and technological knowledge and contribute to the development of new products and services. all this in the interest of generating growth and creating quality jobs. unfortunately, in recent years we have seen a significant increase in the infringement of intellectual property rights in europe, which represents annual losses, as already mentioned here, of eur 250 billion for companies and the destruction of 185 000 jobs in the european area. but beyond these negative effects on the european economy, the violation of these rights also poses a serious threat to the health and safety of european consumers, since many counterfeit products, such as food, cosmetics, medicines, etc., are produced in unregulated environments. the customs authorities of the european union therefore play a crucial role in preventing counterfeit products from entering the internal market. the revision of this regulation is intended to strengthen the control of the application of the legislation concerned, to enhance the legitimacy of its intervention, to increase legal clarity by adapting the provisions of the regulation to new realities and new developments, thus contributing to a better protection of the european economy and consumers. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement and the paris agreement on trade and development, and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments under the paris agreement.
on behalf of the s&d group. mr president, i would like to begin by thanking mr seeber for the good work he has done and for the good cooperation he has had with the shadow rapporteur. the problem of water scarcity and drought is not new but has been growing. in the last 30 years, the areas and people affected by drought have increased by almost 20 percent. the total cost of droughts over the last 30 years is about 100 billion euros. in 2003 alone, drought affected more than 10 million people, one third of the union's territory, and cost the european economy €8.7 billion. water scarcity is no longer limited to southern european countries and is likely to worsen as a result of climate change, threatening important sectors of the economy such as energy and agriculture. climate change is expected to have a negative impact on precipitation patterns and hydrological cycles with very significant effects on water quantity and quality. for example, in my country, portugal, at the end of february, about 70% of the territory was in severe drought. the proposal to set up a european drought observatory therefore makes perfect sense. european policies must focus on savings and efficiency. wastewater must be reused and recycled. water is a public good, scarce, not a commodity. we all have to contribute to it being a preserved resource.
i am not saying that we should not be concerned about the future of the european union. on the one hand, there are the defenders of the water business, those who ignore or misrepresent the resolution of the united nations general assembly which recognized the right to drinking water and sanitation as a human right, those who, by claiming to defend the right of access to water, open the way to the interests of the transnational water cartel, whose greed inevitably clashes with the effective guarantee of the right to water and sanitation that many europeans are still deprived of. those who insist on treating water as a market commodity, subjecting it to the rules of the internal market, even in contradiction to previous resolutions of this parliament. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the water supply is not reduced to the level of the community's water resources, and that the community's water resources are not reduced to the level of the member states. this is the way in which european union legislation has been opening up doors. that is where this report comes in. on the other side of this debate are those who consider water to be a common good of mankind, a public good essential to life, which, for that very reason, should not be a source of profit in commercial exchange. those who believe that market rules cannot apply to water or water services and who therefore advocate the exclusion of water from the internal market. those who fought for the adoption of the un resolution and who are fighting for its implementation, so that the right to safe drinking water and sanitation is guaranteed to all, without exception, as a human right essential to the full enjoyment of life and all human rights. those who fight for public ownership and management of this precious commons. we are on this side, and this is the alternative resolution we are proposing. we shall see which side each of the other political groups in this parliament is on.
ask him about the blue card procedure. mrs ayala sender, previous resolutions of this parliament have clearly advocated the exclusion of water from the internal market. this report, on the contrary, advocates the inclusion of water in the internal market, albeit with adaptations, we do not know what, it advocates that water should be in the internal market, unlike other previous resolutions of this parliament. the question i ask you is, since you have expressed your support for this report, which of the two positions do you support and how will you and your group vote tomorrow?
promoting the attractiveness of investment in europe requires the implementation of measures and reforms at both european and national level. to make europe a more attractive place to invest and work, it is essential to create the conditions for businesses to enjoy a climate of fair competition. the development of the internal market must be one of the eu's main priorities for the development of a favourable and motivating climate for businesses and consumers. this issue is of particular relevance in a globalised economy. i therefore draw attention to the role of the outermost regions in this area. in line with what the commission already included in its 2008 communication, it is important to make the most of the strengths of these regions, taking advantage of high value-added sectors such as agri-food, biodiversity, renewable energy, astrophysics, aerospace, oceanography, volcanology or seismology, or the important role of the ors as eu outposts in the world. more recently, the council identified the sectors where the contribution of the ors could have the greatest added value: research and innovation, renewable energy, biodiversity, agriculture, maritime wealth, health, ict, cultural heritage, territorial cooperation and neighbourhood policy.
blue-card question. – mr president, mr callanan is very worried about those who are bashing the bankers, but does he not accept that scandals such as that involving barclays bank and others actually demonstrates that bankers have behaved like ‘banksters’ – like gangsters – and that it is not enough to fine them, they must be criminally prosecuted as well, be they housed in barclays bank, deutsche bank or any other?
mr president of the commission, mr president of the council, the last council seemed to be finally starting to move in the right direction, but the details are missing and without them nothing can be concluded. firstly, it is good that it is finally recognised that budgetary discipline is only effective if it is accompanied, not followed, by growth and employment. but the growth and jobs initiative will only work if it corrects the imbalances within the european union which are at the root of the crisis. it will only be effective if we open up employment and business opportunities, especially to those economies which have been persistently losing out on the functioning of the internal market and the single currency, and if we take advantage, especially in those countries, of the opportunity to overcome the crisis. secondly, it is good that the breaking of the contagion between the debts of the states and those of the banks is at the centre of the agenda today. there are new proposals, but it is not politically acceptable that banks in crisis should end up benefiting from stronger european support and less stringent conditions than the states. banks and states can hardly compete for access to the same public funds, especially if these are manifestly insufficient, as is the case with the ism. it is not possible that in the event of a bank's failure taxpayers should pay before shareholders, nor that bank resolution funds should be predominantly public and not financed by banks, and depositors should not have their euro savings threatened by the crisis, they must be guaranteed and it is urgent that this should happen. a final note, mr president, and i will end with the essential point, to ensure that states are not destroyed at the hands of the markets, and the proposals that this parliament has put forward in the two-pack on defending sovereign debt are absolutely essential for the survival of europe at this time. i hope that the commission and the council will respond positively to this parliament's proposal on this matter.
mr president, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, what i wanted to say was essentially the following: the european council was for us, i think, all of us who believe in europe, essentially marked by two pieces of good news: one is that we have more time and the other is that we can have some hope. i think the results are meager. we could have gone further, we should have gone further, but the truth is that for the first time, i think, steps have been taken in the right direction, in a clear way, and, moreover, those steps have been contextualised in a kind of road map. and i would like to congratulate the commission here because the truth is that summit after summit, council after council, proposals put forward a year and a half ago, two years ago, half a year ago, and rejected at the time they were put forward, end up being adopted, so because the commission itself is also behind this road map which is a road map of greater integration, i have, despite everything, some hope, so i used the word hope, that some of the proposals that the president of the commission has made and some of which he has made, moreover, together with presidents of other institutions, can be followed and finally bring us a route of greater stability and greater security for the times ahead.
mr durão barroso, for the first time the question of growth and employment has been put on the council's agenda and for the first time a pact for growth and employment has been put forward. now, if we really look at what has been proposed, we can only conclude that the mountain has given birth to a mouse. if we compare both the content and the amount, we are talking about 120 billion euros. what we have found is that if we compare it with the aid that has been given to the banks and the recapitalisation of the banks, we are talking about a ridiculous package and so i would very much like you to be able to explain to the citizens why when it comes to banks the amounts are higher, the support is higher, the conditions are much lower and the counterparts, why don't you explain this to the citizens? why don't they explain that when we talk about aid, they're the ones who will pay again. it was important to clarify these questions because we are tired of austerity.
this european council was another step on the way to the establishment of a political and institutional framework which would force the eu institutions to exercise a tight control over each country, undermining national sovereignty and defying the most basic democratic principles and values, all in order to intensify exploitation, attack the rights and living conditions of workers and peoples and prolong the extortion of national resources. the so-called 'european semester' was concluded with the adoption of the 'country-specific recommendations which member states will integrate into their future national decisions on budgets, structural reforms and employment policies'. if we look at these 'recommendations' which the european commission has published and which they now want to implement, we will understand the meaning and the objectives of this 'european semester'. in portugal, the commission advocated a reduction in wages and the duration of unemployment benefits. in a country with one of the lowest wages in the eu, unemployment is at historic levels and long-term unemployment is increasing as a result of policies imposed by the eu and the imf. it was the interests of the economic and financial groups that were once again on the table, as is also shown by the decision on the possibility of direct support for banking.
mr president, i would ask that the possibility of a roll-call vote be considered in the next vote, in the third part.
in writing. − the european economic and social committee (eesc), founded in 1957, is an advisory body to the three institutions of the european union (eu) commission, council and european parliament (ep) to which it provides opinions on legislative proposals. in accordance with rule 124 of the ep's rules of procedure, and where the treaty on the functioning of the eu provides for consultation of the eesc, the president, after informing parliament of the start of the consultation procedure, shall, without a debate, submit requests for consultation of the eesc to the ep for approval. in the light of the above, i voted in favour of the eesc's request for consultation on the establishment of the european social market.
in writing. − i support this proposal, considering that a stable system requires the conditions for effective protection of citizens' rights and for the swift handling of cases. the postponement of the transposition of the directive to october 2013 is, in my view, fully justified, because if we want solvency ii to be effective, we have to ensure that solvency i is properly adapted and implemented, otherwise we will be taking a step backwards in all the work that the european union has already done in this area of key interest to european citizens.
in writing. − solvency ii directive 2009/138/ec establishes the regulation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the european union. these new rules are essential to ensure the soundness and safety of the insurance sector. the deadline for transposition of this directive is 30 october 2012. however, the commission has recently proposed an amendment to that directive with the aim of adapting it to the new architecture of insurance supervision, also proposing to extend the deadlines for transposition, repeal and application initially provided for. the proposal to extend this deadline to 30 june 2013 is essential as other rules will have to enter into force before this directive and there is no certainty that these deadlines can be met, as is the case with the omnibus ii directive. taking into account that supervisors and (re) insurance undertakings need some time to prepare for the application of the new legislation, it is also proposed to extend the start date of application of the solvency ii package to 1 january 2014. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the measures proposed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on 'insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) ' as i considered positive the proposal to amend directive 2009/138/ec solvency ii in order to postpone the transposition deadline to 30 june 2013 instead of 31 october 2012 - and the application date to 1 january 2014. i consider that it is necessary to extend the transposition deadline for solvency ii to ensure the legal continuity of solvency i until the full implementation of solvency ii. doing nothing at this stage would create a situation of legal uncertainty for the insurance industry.
in writing. − this report focuses on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament (ep) and of the council amending directive 2009/138/ec as regards the dates for transposition and application and the date of repeal of certain directives. the deadline for transposing the directive laying down new rules on the regulation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in europe, in order to ensure the soundness and safety of this sector, allowing it greater stability and strengthening consumer confidence, expires on 31 october. in january 2011, the commission adopted an amendment to the abovementioned directive, namely the creation of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) and the extension of the deadline for transposition, repeal and application, taking into account the need for prior approval of the omnibus ii directive. i voted in favour of postponing the transposition of directive 2009/138/ec to 30 june 2013 and the entry into force of the solvency ii package to 1 january 2014, avoiding a legal vacuum from 31 october next and ensuring the timely preparation of its operationality.
in writing. − the purpose of this report is to propose a directive postponing the dates for transposition of directive 2009/138/ec (solvency ii) and the repeal of the existing insurance and reinsurance directives to 31 october 2012. this is because the commission adopted in january 2011 a proposal to amend directive 2009/138/ec in order to take account of the new architecture of insurance supervision and in particular the creation of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), called omnibus ii. as the omnibus ii trilogue is still ongoing, the commission considers that the entry into force of directive 2009/138/ec without the major adaptations provided for in the omnibus ii directive could impose heavy burdens on member states. it also considers that these rules are important for a smooth transition to the new regime. in order to become operational, solvency ii requires the inclusion of delegated and implementing acts by the commission. the report therefore calls for the postponement of the transposition of directive 2009/138/ec (solvency ii) and the repeal of the directives to 1 january 2014. the content of this report is therefore eminently technical. in view of our critical position towards eiopa, we abstained.
in writing. − directive 2009/138/ec (solvency ii) establishes the regulation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the european union. the european commission has recently proposed an amendment to this directive to adapt it to the new architecture of insurance supervision, also proposing to extend the deadlines for transposition, repeal and application initially envisaged. these new rules are considered essential to ensure the soundness and safety of the insurance sector. i am in general agreement with the measures proposed and therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − directive 2009/138/ec (solvency ii) establishes the regulation and supervision of insurance and reinsurance undertakings in the european union. these new rules are essential to ensure the soundness and safety of the insurance sector. the deadline for transposition of this directive is 30 october 2012. however, the commission has recently proposed an amendment to that directive with the aim of adapting it to the new architecture of insurance supervision, also proposing to extend the deadlines for transposition, repeal and application initially provided for. the proposal to extend this deadline to 30 june 2013 is essential as other rules will have to enter into force before this directive and there is no certainty that these deadlines can be met (as is the case with the omnibus ii directive). taking into account that supervisors and (re) insurance undertakings need some time to prepare for the application of the new legislation, it is also proposed to extend the start date of application of the solvency ii package to 1 january 2014. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european commission has launched a new directive on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii), in particular as regards the dates for transposition and application and the date of repeal of certain directives. this directive aims to build a new supervisory architecture for the insurance sector, to establish the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) and to propose to postpone the deadline for transposition of the solvency ii directive to 31 december 2012. i agree with the draft legislative resolution which approves the european parliament's position at first reading and endorses the commission's proposal, which may be amended.
in writing. - i approve the present proposal to amend the status of saint barthélemy as an outermost region to that of an overseas country and territory associated with the european union. i agree with the aim of the proposal, which is to promote the economic and social development of this remote region of the european union by strengthening relations with regional actors, including the overseas territories and countries, and the outermost regions of the caribbean, and thus to promote the european union's model of life and values in the best possible way.
in writing. - i am in favour of amending annex ia to council decision 2001/822/ec to insert a new indent including saint barthélemy in the list of overseas countries and territories, enshrining the change in the status of the island of saint barthélemy from an outermost region to an overseas country and territory associated with the european union as from 1 january 2012, as this change meets the needs and specificities of the territory of saint barthélemy and in no way prejudices the interests of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european community, which calls on the council and the commission to adopt a decision to change the status of the island of saint barthélemy from an external region to that of a country and territory associated with the european union.
in writing. - under article 355 (6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, and on the initiative of the member state concerned, in this case the republic of france, the european council was asked to take a decision of this kind with regard to the island of saint barthélemy, so that the status of this outermost region could be changed to that of an overseas country and territory associated with the european union. therefore, in order to give effect to this decision of the european council, the council, acting unanimously on a proposal from the commission and after consulting the european parliament, should amend its decision on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european union. i therefore consider that the change in status responds to the needs and specificities of the territory of saint barthélemy without prejudicing the interests of the union.
in writing. − the present report concerns the proposal for a council decision amending council decision 2001/822/ec on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the ec, following the request made by the french republic under article 355 tfeu and in a letter dated 30 june 2010 asking the european council to decide in favour of changing the status of the island of saint barthélemy from 'outermost region' to 'overseas territory associated with the european union'. the rapporteur believes that this change in status 'meets the needs and specificities of the territory of são bartolomeu, without prejudicing the interests of the union', while maintaining the euro as currency and its inhabitants being considered 'european citizens'. saint barthélemy becomes the 26th country and associated territory of the eu. i voted in favour of this proposal as it meets the legitimate aspirations of the people of st bartholomew's, enabling them to strengthen partnerships with neighbouring states acp countries and the outermost regions of the caribbean and does not harm the interests of the eu.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the european council may, on the initiative of the member state concerned and acting unanimously, amend the status with regard to the eu of the french, danish and dutch overseas countries and territories. france has therefore asked the european council to change the status of the island of saint barthélemy from an outermost region to an overseas country and territory associated with the european union. consultation of the european parliament is a necessary step in this process. the rapporteur believes that the change in the statute responds to the needs and specificities of the territory of são bartolomeu. we respect the wishes and the legitimate and sovereign choices of the peoples of these territories. we must not forget the struggle that many of them are still waging against european colonialism, and we stand in solidarity with them. a struggle for the possibility of being able to freely and sovereignly decide their own destinies.
in writing. the french republic has asked the european council to take a decision on the island of saint barthélemy, so that its status will change from an outermost region to an overseas country and territory associated with the european union. this status responds to the needs and specificities of the territory of saint barthélemy without prejudice to the interests of the union. by adopting the status of an overseas country and territory, saint barthélemy is entering into a new and lasting reciprocal partnership with the european union, which responds to its particularities without, however, calling into question its membership of the european family. i voted in favour of these terms.
in writing. - this report follows the request of the french republic to the european council to amend the status of the island of saint barthélemy, so that the status of this outermost region is changed to that of an overseas country and territory associated with the european union. saint barthélemy thus becomes the 26th overseas country and territory associated with the european union. by adopting the status of an overseas country and associated territory, saint barthélemy is entering into a new and lasting reciprocal partnership with the european union, which responds to its specific characteristics without, however, calling into question its membership of the european family. the euro is still the currency of saint barthélemy and its citizens are still european citizens. the links with the european union are thus strong. i therefore voted in favour of this report because it is intended to strengthen relations between saint barthélemy and the regional players, in particular the overseas countries and territories, the acp countries and the outermost regions of the caribbean, and to contribute to a better dissemination of the european model and values.
in writing. − under article 355 (6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the european council, on the initiative of the member state concerned, may adopt a decision altering the status with regard to the union of one of the overseas countries or territories referred to in that article. the french republic has asked the european council to take a decision of this kind on the island of saint barthélemy, so that the status of this outermost region may be changed to that of an overseas country and territory associated with the european union. i agree with the possibility of these territories choosing to become an oct or an overseas country and territory, choosing the status that suits them best, and i voted in favour of the european parliament's position.
in writing. - i support this proposal, considering that macro-regional strategies can bring enormous benefits to the regions, which also involves several member states and their regions, as was the case with the danube and baltic sea strategies. i think that this type of strategy is certainly working, but on the other hand the european union must strengthen multi-level governance in all its institutional procedures, not only within the framework of the strategies but in the framework of all political action, in order to facilitate the creation of new macro-regional strategies, such as the possible atlantic strategy, which could bring enormous benefits to the regions. in the specific case of the mediterranean, as the rapporteur points out, the fact that several states and regions share the same basin, natural environment and historical linkage along the coast could bring great benefits not only in the synergies to be created between the member states of the european union, but also with neighbouring states.
in writing. - support the implementation of a macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean basin in order to provide an action plan for addressing the common and problematic challenges facing the mediterranean countries and regions; the main areas of intervention for a mediterranean macro-region should also include energy networks, scientific cooperation and innovation, cultural, education and training networks, environmental protection, sustainable maritime transport, maritime protection and safety and protection of the marine environment against pollution, overfishing and illegal fishing, through the creation of an integrated network of information and surveillance systems for maritime activities, the strengthening of good governance and effective public administration, in order to foster job creation.
in writing. - i was pleased to see that this owninitiative report in the committee on regional development was perfectly in line with the strategy for the european neighbourhood policy (enp) previously defined by this parliament, for which i was the rapporteur in the afet committee. highlighting the importance of the mediterranean basin as a decentralised and more comprehensive area of cooperation in enhancing transregional decision-making/sharing of good practice, it proposes the development of a macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean basin (similar to the strategy for the baltic for example) in a broader framework including the western mediterranean, the adriatic and the eastern mediterranean. it also considered that a comprehensive policy for the whole mediterranean basin could be implemented, complementing the priorities defined by regional and international organisations (e.g. the union for the mediterranean) and applying good practices that could contribute to the achievement of the objectives of the eu strategies. the focus on civil society participation, the principles/areas of action to be developed and deepened and the updating of the approach to migration in the face of the 'arab spring' also seem to me to be an excellent complement to the two enp reports for which i was rapporteur in the european parliament.
in writing. - the macro-regions, the baltic being the first, are the logical consequence of the growing interdependence of the countries and their similar or common characteristics, and are based on belonging to a particular geographical and cultural area which, although it crosses borders, is nevertheless delimited by them. the macro-regional approach allows common problems to be faced, shared problems to be tackled, cohesion to be promoted and solutions to be sought whose effects can benefit all actors and give the european union an overall vision that allows it to develop its action more appropriately. i believe that this option, if it is well managed and skillfully articulated with the states, respecting their sovereignty and promoting and respecting their specificities, can be successfully replicated in a number of areas. the mediterranean, in the face of the current turbulent times, must merit intelligent involvement by the union and the search for stabilising solutions involving both its shores.
in writing. − as with the macro-regional strategies for other geographical areas of europe, such as the danube basin and the baltic sea, macro-regional strategies for the mediterranean, more specifically for the adriatic and ionian seas, are now presented. the experience gained with the implementation of the baltic macro-region shows that it is a good initiative and a development booster for the peoples of these regions. the economic policy of the european union is based on regional cooperation. it is therefore clear - especially after the so-called 'arab spring' - that it is in the best interests of the union to maintain good relations with the peoples of the southern mediterranean and to promote trade and tourism development by exploiting existing resources, in particular maritime traffic and sustainable energy. it is also an excellent opportunity to promote interregional cohesion and strengthen relations between peoples. i voted in favour of the report by mr françois alfonsi on the eu's macro-regional strategies for the mediterranean and i hope that, with the support of the next multiannual financial framework, the eu will continue to cooperate in the process of democratization of the african countries of the mediterranean basin in order to achieve greater stability and economic growth in the region.
in writing. − we believe that it is essential to promote policies that promote effective economic and social cohesion in the european union, especially in a situation of deep structural crisis and of great social inequalities and regional asymmetries. the promotion of cohesion can and should involve cooperation between countries and regions with different affinities, which provides for interventions in the territory aimed at preserving the ecological balance and promoting fair, balanced and sustainable development. this view is partly reflected in the report and its approach to macro-regional strategies. however, the eu often subverts the concept of cohesion, for example by renationalising the costs of eu policies, by under-spending on cohesion or by imposing conditionality, by tying countries to strategies (such as eu 2020) whose aims and objectives are contrary to the desired cohesion. this report sets out a list of intentions which we value, but we cannot help but express our concern about these points. we also have serious reservations about certain points in the report which are close to the vision of the eu as a hegemonic power in the mediterranean region, denoting unconcealed imperial ambitions.
in writing. - i agree that the development of macro-regional strategies should be part of a global reflection aimed at identifying the problems on the ground, in order to avoid projects that are hesitant or arise from mere political and immediatist considerations. i agree with the idea that each macro-region needs a 'pre-setting phase', which organises a round table of the partners involved, which sets out the first strategic priorities and also lays the foundations for future governance, as the rapporteur has said, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report looks at the evolution of the eu's macro-regional strategies, particularly in the mediterranean, and advocates a macro-regional approach that would allow the union to define a global project in this area, which is vital for the future of the union, in order to emerge from the current crisis and meet the expectations of its neighbours, particularly those in the southern mediterranean. this approach makes perfect sense to me, since the mediterranean area is a coherent whole, forming a single cultural and environmental basin, sharing several common characteristics and priorities: the same agricultural production, the abundance of renewable energy resources, in particular solar energy, the importance of tourism, the same risks in the face of natural disasters (fires, floods, earthquakes, scarcity of water resources) and the same risks in the face of human activities, in particular marine pollution. a dynamic development around the mediterranean can be, in addition to being a driving force for the whole european economy, a powerful encouragement for the development of new active neighbourhood policies, since the so-called 'arab spring' has highlighted the strategic potential of the geographical, political and economic links between the two shores of the mediterranean.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this document because i support the macro-regional approach to territorial cooperation policies between territories belonging to the same service and work area. i believe that macro-regional strategies have opened a new chapter in european territorial cooperation, using a bottom-up approach and extending cooperation to more and more areas, and i argue that, given their european added value, macro-regional strategies should be given more attention in the next framework of territorial cooperation 2014-2020.
in writing. - i welcome and welcome this report, which highlights the extent of the negotiations between the european parliament and the council, which have brought about fundamental changes, particularly in services relating to the railway sector, particularly in the direction of its modernisation and interconnection. more important is the ultimate objective of this proposal, which is the opening up of the national passenger market and the separation of transport management infrastructures, which will undoubtedly not only bring us all closer together in europe, but also mean consolidating the principles of the free movement of persons in the european area.
in writing. − since january 2012, a european parliament delegation has been in informal negotiations with the council and the commission to prepare a second reading agreement on the single railway area. this recommendation supports the amendments adopted at first reading in plenary, in order to defend in the ongoing trilogues with the council the position of parliament which was adopted by a large majority. it advocates the need for independent regulatory bodies to achieve equal conditions of competition between large and small railway undertakings. the commission is proposing that in the long term a european regulatory body be set up to supervise cross-border transport. it rejected the council's proposals to reduce the duration of the multiannual contractual agreement to three years and proposed a duration of seven years. it advocates the need for transparent rules on access to connected rail services or service facilities to ensure that transport operators are able to provide their services. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. − the existence of independent regulatory bodies is crucial to achieving a level playing field between large and small railway companies. the decisions of national regulatory authorities shall be reliable and timely. in the long term, a european regulatory body should be established to oversee cross-border transport. in the meantime, national regulatory authorities should develop their networking activities. parliament adopted amendments to increase the transparency of financial flows, in particular in integrated companies providing transport and infrastructure management services. the text of the legislation currently in force has led to wide discrepancies in interpretation and, consequently, to several cases pending before the european court of auditors. the need to improve the text on this point in order to ensure greater clarity has thus become urgent. i agree with the above and with the other proposals of the european parliament mentioned in this document, and therefore i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'single european railway area', which reflects the good results of the negotiations with the council and the commitments made, particularly in the areas of access to rail transport services, such as the creation of an independent national network of regulatory bodies and the increase in the transparency of financial flows between the infrastructure manager and rail transport companies in integrated undertakings.
in writing. − the need to establish a single european railway area is part of the decline in rail transport, and aims to reverse this trend and promote this means of transport of people and goods which is faster, safer and less polluting than those using fossil fuels, in particular air transport. member states should closely monitor the implementation of this european railway area and promote the use of this means of transport internally, as well as enhance connectivity between railway lines in the various member states. a europe with a single railway area will tend to be more environmentally friendly and better supplied with goods and services. after many months of discussion, it has now been possible to reach an agreement with the council and i therefore congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs on the work they have done on this dossier.
in writing. - deborah serracchiani presents a recommendation for second reading following the council's position at first reading, with a view to the adoption of a european parliament (ep) and council directive establishing a single european railway area (recast). the construction of a single market at the level of the european union (eu) implies a vast set of standardisation standards, which often require the removal of technical barriers, as is the case with railway infrastructure. in fact, it is discouraging and a reason for not using this type of transport that, when travelling between member states, we have to change trains when we reach a certain border. it is therefore urgent to standardize the gauges of the european rail networks. i welcome the fact that after long and difficult negotiations it has been possible to reach an agreement on the creation of a single european railway area. the liberalisation of rail services will be an asset for european citizens and businesses. i welcome the adoption of this report because it is a proposal which will make the single market work and bring enormous benefits to citizens and businesses. it can also be an excellent alternative to road traffic with enormous energy and environmental benefits.
in writing. − this directive is another piece of the ongoing attack on the public rail service. the direction is clear: privatize what is profitable and leave to the state the areas where large amounts of funding are needed such as the construction and maintenance of infrastructure. the proposed fragmentation is tailored to the multinationals in the sector, which are taking over rail transport and colonizing the markets for associated services in several countries. those who have adopted this directive today will be responsible tomorrow for the workers who will lose their jobs, for those who will see their working conditions degraded, their wages reduced and their hours increased. they will also be accountable to the populations, who will be deprived of services considered less profitable, who will pay more for a service of poorer quality. they will also have to respond, finally, to the disturbing threats to railway safety, which is the imposition of the subordination of safety standards set by the national authorities to the rules of competition.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the serracchiani report on the recasting of the union's rail transport legislation because it consolidates two fundamental objectives: (i) to make progress in creating a cross-border european rail market, without which there is no real internal market; (ii) to strengthen the conditions for rail transport's efficiency and enable it to compete with road and air transport (which, moreover, do not internalise their environmental over-cost). i also believe that a single european railway market cannot be effectively regulated in a fragmented way through national regulators, requiring the creation of a pan-european regulator. the proposed solution of a council of national regulators chaired by the european commission should therefore be seen as an intermediate solution towards a future union railway regulator, without prejudice to the continued existence of national regulators as decentralised entities at national level.
in writing. - at this second reading, the rapporteur, in her proposal for a recommendation, largely reiterates the position adopted by parliament at first reading, with the exception of some minor amendments made by the council to the commission proposal. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use (eamhp) and that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a report on the application of the directive. i agree with this position and therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − this proposal for a directive establishing a single european railway area merges three existing directives and contains provisions on adequate financing for railway infrastructure, conditions of competition in the railway market and the organisational reforms necessary to ensure adequate market surveillance. in very general terms, this recast was designed to ensure the improvement of the investment framework in the railway sector and to ensure better rail transport services for passengers and freight users, increasing competition in the railway market and strengthening the authority and powers of national regulators. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the creation of a single railway area depends on coherent, transparent and simplified legislation, which fosters a competitive business environment. after the trilogue negotiations, the council proposal significantly lowered the ambition of the proposal submitted by the commission and parliament. the rapporteur's recommendation therefore seeks to reinforce the objectives already discussed and approved by parliament in order to reach an agreement at second reading. the rapporteur wants to strengthen access to rail services, infrastructure financing, infrastructure charges, the strengthening of the powers of the regulatory body, the full independence of the management of the network and financial transparency. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by road. i support this recommendation because i consider it vital to simplify the existing legislation in order to achieve the objectives set out in the transport white paper - horizon 2050.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that it is an extraordinary advance not only in technology but also in improving road safety and working conditions on the one hand, and safeguarding the privacy of citizens on the other. if well implemented, this new technology could bring significant results in improving road safety in europe, provided that individual privacy is protected, with the ultimate aim of monitoring and preventing disasters and negative consequences for road transport users.
in writing. - since 1969, the european union has introduced social provisions in the field of road transport in order to improve road safety and the working conditions of drivers and to ensure fair competition between transport undertakings. the aim of this revision of the tachograph regulation is to make fraud more difficult, to improve the application of social legislation and to reduce administrative burdens by making full use of new technologies and introducing some new regulatory provisions. this report, which i supported, proposes two important measures: to encourage the development of an application through the harmonised tachograph interface, which provides interpretation and guidance to drivers, and to introduce the approval of the software used by control officers to interpret the data recorded on the tachograph. none of the present objectives of the proposal will be achieved if member states do not commit themselves to improving the level of implementation of this regulation.
in writing. − since 1969, the european union (eu) has introduced social provisions in the field of road transport with the aim of improving road safety and the working conditions of drivers, as well as ensuring fair competition between transport companies. the eu has developed a comprehensive policy on supervision and enforcement based on two pillars: - directive 2006/22/ec on minimum requirements for roadside checks and on-the-spot checks to be carried out by member states. - council regulation (eec) no 3821/85, hereinafter referred to as the 'tacograph regulation'. the commission has identified two main problems today that require an eu-wide response: - problem 1: violations of social rules still very frequent: on average 9% of the vehicles inspected do not comply with social rules; - problem 2: the use of the tachograph system is not sufficiently optimized: the way in which the tachograph, especially the digital tachograph and its additional functionalities, facilitate the driver's work and promote transport efficiency can be improved. i voted in favour of the amendments to the regulation because i believe they will help to solve the problems identified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the introduction of a recording equipment in road transport, as i believe that the new regulation will improve the functions of the digital tachograph by applying stricter rules on driving and resting time, thus contributing positively to the protection of drivers and road safety.
in writing. − road transport safety is a particular concern of the eu, which is why it has developed legislation to harmonise maximum daily and weekly driving times and minimum daily and weekly rest periods for drivers. these rules are intended to ensure road safety and protect workers by ensuring fair competition between companies in the sector. to this end, the tachograph regulation (control device for data on driving, working and resting times recorded for each operator and driver) was adopted in 1985. it is this regulation that the commission now intends to review and update in order to make fraud more difficult, improve enforcement of the legislation and reduce the administrative burden by using the new technologies at its disposal.
in writing. - the transport of goods by road without well-defined rules and without strict control of the drivers' rest periods increases the risk of accidents with sometimes very serious consequences, both in terms of personal injury and material and environmental damage. the report by silvia-adriana ţicău is on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (eec) no 3821/85 which made the existence of a control apparatus in the field of road transport compulsory, and regulation (ec) no 561/2006 of the european parliament and of the council. the new proposal for a regulation, which follows the evolution of new technologies, provides for the introduction of a control device (digital tachograph) in all new heavy-duty vehicles from 2015 and its generalization to heavy-duty vehicles from 2020. the new apparatus, equipped with gsm transmission, will allow much faster and more efficient control and can be extended to other functions beyond speed and rest time control, contributing to a reduction in bureaucracy and greater economy since data transmission can be done at zero cost.
in writing. the rapporteur proposed two important measures: to encourage the development of an application, through the harmonised tachograph interface, which provides interpretation and guidance to drivers and to introduce the type approval of the software used by control officers to interpret the data recorded by the tachograph. in agreeing with these measures which will benefit drivers and transport efficiency, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the european union has been introducing social provisions in the field of road transport since 1969 with the aim of improving road safety and the working conditions of drivers, and of ensuring fair competition between transport companies. as part of the european policy on the supervision and enforcement of social legislation in the field of road transport, this proposal aims to strengthen the existing legal framework and to extend the functionalities of the digital tachograph substantially by introducing new technological developments, thus giving rise to a new type of digital tachograph (the so-called 'smart tachograph'). member states should also commit to improving the level of implementation of this regulation by promoting greater harmonisation in the training that control officers receive across europe and by certifying the acquisition of appropriate technical competence through an examination, as well as by providing control officers with the appropriate equipment and approved software to take full advantage of the new possibilities that the smart tachograph will provide for improved control.
in writing. - regulation (eec) no 3821/85 on tachographs aims to improve road safety and therefore lays down a set of technical standards and standards for the use, typeapproval, installation and inspection of tachographs, which are binding on manufacturers and authorities, but also on transport undertakings and their drivers. the rules concern the driving, working and rest times recorded for vehicles of 2,8 tonnes gross vehicle weight for freight transport and for drivers of passenger vehicles with a capacity of 9 or more. this revision of the 1985 regulation is intended to strengthen controls on fraud, improve the application of social legislation and reduce the administrative costs of technological progress. the focus will be on enhancing the functionalities of the digital tachograph, the so-called 'smart tachograph', which will allow remote communication for control, automatic recording of precise location data and complementarity of the tachograph with intelligent transport applications. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud.
in writing. - i support this proposal, considering that in a globalised economy intellectual property has become a very important factor in european competitiveness. protecting knowledge is protecting europe's investment in research, innovation and jobs. at the same time, infringements of intellectual property rights and the resulting global trade in counterfeit goods is a growing concern, both in terms of the economic consequences for europe's industry and the risks to the health and safety of its consumers. considering that customs rules and practices play a crucial role in effective action, the commission's proposal to revise the current regulation (ec) no 1383/2003 on border controls with the aim of increasing the control of imps and streamlining customs procedures is timely and desirable.
in writing. − intellectual property rights (ipr) are central to innovation, a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. given the increase in ipr infringements and in the international trade in counterfeit goods, economic growth and jobs depend to a large extent on effective enforcement of ipr legislation. customs authorities are in a relatively good position to effectively control the application of ipr legislation at the eu's external borders before goods enter the internal market. once goods are dispersed across the different member states, it becomes much more difficult and costly to trace them and to initiate proceedings. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the commission's proposal to revise regulation (ec) no 1383/2003 in order to strengthen the control of the application of ipr legislation by customs authorities and because i agree with the recommendations put forward by the rapporteur.
in writing. - artistic, scientific, industrial and cultural creation deserves protection and that is why there are internationally recognised intellectual property rights (ipr). these ensure the integrity of the creation/invention and must protect it against counterfeiting and piracy. however, modern technologies - notably the internet - have made piracy and counterfeiting easier and more accessible. therefore, adequate and effective ipr protection is increasingly essential for the protection of industries (in particular creative industries) and is an essential part of the eu2020 strategy on innovation and entrepreneurship. piracy and counterfeiting represent an estimated annual cost to european businesses of eur 250 billion and as such it is of paramount importance to establish and activate the most effective mechanisms to combat piracy and counterfeiting.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis has reinforced the need to focus strongly on economic growth and job creation. all employment opportunities, concentrated mainly in small and mediumsized enterprises, must be exploited. in this context, the fight against the shadow economy, especially tax evasion and counterfeiting, plays a crucial role. the trade in counterfeit products on european markets represents losses of around eur 250 billion annually and has a negative impact on labour markets of 185,000 jobs. in addition, consumer protection and the quality of the products traded are at stake, as is the protection of intellectual property rights. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs authorities because it will strengthen existing legislation, increase legal clarity, better protect the economy and the rights of european consumers (health and well-being are at stake: health, food, technological, industrial products, etc.) and meet the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. - this report is based on a proposal for a regulation which intends to give customs authorities an increased role in the 'war' against counterfeiting, pirated goods, infringement of trademark/copyright, etc. we are not opposed to greater supervision and control of this type of goods, and it does not seem inconsistent that once this decision has been taken, it should be made compulsory for the customs authorities to play a more active role in this matter. however, the report does go some way in some areas that we cannot follow up. the rapporteur goes further than the commission has proposed. the commission is therefore proposing that this regulation should cover all infringements of intellectual property rights, generic medicines and non-commercial imports. it also proposes a definition of 'small shipment', which we have many doubts about, which can be taken as universally valid.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the creutzmann report on the customs protection of intellectual property rights (ipr) because i share the view that the protection of ipr in external trade relations is essential for the european economy, whose competitiveness is based on innovation and the differentiation that trade marks, patents, copyright and geographical indications guarantee. the union customs authorities have the primary responsibility for preventing the entry of pirated or counterfeit goods into the internal market. i also agree that customs controls on goods in transit should not be excluded, at least in cases where there may be reasonable grounds for suspecting that they are destined for the internal market. i also believe that it is pointless to deprive the european union of the right to seize goods infringing iprs protected in the union (european trade marks, etc.) simply because they are intended for another market, since the damage caused to european companies holding such rights is no less serious. the case of generic medicines in transit to developing countries under the relevant wto trips waiver clause is not at issue precisely because there is no infringement of iprs by european pharmaceutical companies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider intellectual property rights (ipr) to be fundamental to innovation and a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. as i have said, it is important to combat piracy and counterfeiting, which are already costing european companies an estimated eur 250 billion a year.
in writing. − given the increase in infringements of intellectual property rights and in the international trade in counterfeit goods, economic growth and jobs depend to a large extent on effective enforcement of intellectual property rights legislation. in order to reverse this situation, this report provides for the revision of regulation (ec) no 1383/2003 in order to strengthen the enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs authorities and to increase legal clarity by adapting the provisions of the regulation to new developments. the main aim is to strengthen the role of customs authorities in both monitoring and enforcing intellectual property rights legislation at the eu's external borders, i.e. before goods enter the internal market, as it becomes much more difficult and costly to trace and prosecute goods once they have been dispersed across the member states. as i consider intellectual property rights to be fundamental to innovation and a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, i voted in favour.
in writing. − intellectual property rights are fundamental to innovation, a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy. given the increase in violations of these rights and in the international trade in counterfeit goods, economic growth and jobs depend to a large extent on effective enforcement of counterfeit legislation. procedures should therefore be established to enable customs authorities to prevent the movement of goods suspected of infringing intellectual property rights. for the reasons i have mentioned, i voted in favour of the document in the european parliament.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that a holistic approach to the protection of water resources is needed. the protection of water resources, in particular drinking water, should be considered in a global perspective, taking into account all the ecosystem services supported by water. controlling pollution at source is of key importance to prevent the entry of hazardous substances into the environment and to reduce the pressure placed on wastewater treatment. climate change adaptation and mitigation policies should systematically take into account the impact on water resources and the eu should take a comprehensive approach to the problem of water scarcity and droughts. significant gains in water resource efficiency are possible and desirable. resource efficiency is a flagship initiative of europe 2020 and water efficiency plays a central role in the strategy. moreover, the quantity and quality of water are inextricably linked.
in writing. - water is unquestionably the most important of all public goods. with the adoption of the water framework directive (wfd) in 2000, the european union has a solid framework for sustainable and efficient management of water resources. however, the pace of implementation of the eqf in european countries and regions has been slow. in order to respond to current and future water challenges, the commission will present a plan to preserve europe's water resources in november 2012. this report, which is the european parliament's contribution to the european commission's plan, advocates that the regional and local dimension should be strengthened, communities and local stakeholders should be involved and actively involved in all stages of the policy-making and implementation process. it also advocates a holistic approach to the protection of water resources, particularly drinking water, and that water should be integrated into all areas of intervention at european, national and regional level. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − water is a common good of mankind and access to water should be a fundamental and universal right. sustainable water use is an environmental and health necessity and plays a central role in the climate regulation cycle. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that special attention should be paid to the specific activities and objectives of the horizon 2020 framework programme on better sustainable management of water resources and aquatic environments in the eu and its neighbouring countries.
in writing. - water issues are a legitimate concern for european decision-makers. the idea that we have water in quality and quantity should not distract us from the fact that desertification is affecting more and more regions of europe. taking water resources for granted and not protecting or trying to conserve them are the first steps to losing them. if there is one issue that touches upon the most basic of our survival and that crosses multiple areas of our existence, it is that of water. it is therefore up to the union to tackle it in a comprehensive, intelligent and effective way. i hope that the european conscience will really wake up to the need to safeguard the supply and rational use of water by the people and that the legislation that will be adopted will reinforce the need to preserve it, thus ensuring the survival of future generations and of european ecosystems.
in writing. - never has the maxim "water is life" made so much sense as it does today. in fact, water can be both a war breeder and a peacemaker. so some claim that the next world war will be fought over the possession and control of water resources. as it is an essential resource for mankind (human consumption, agricultural and industrial activity), it must be treated with all the precautions it deserves. aware of this, the european union (eu) adopted the water directive in 2000, which established a reasonable framework for water protection and use. after 12 years, there are areas where improvements are needed, both in quality control and in management at regional and sometimes macro-regional level. another aspect that requires urgent attention from the managing authorities is the optimisation of supply systems, since it is estimated that around 70% of these losses are incurred. i voted in favour of this report which improves the quality and preserves our water resources and i urge the commission to include in the cohesion fund for the next mff appropriations to optimise water treatment and supply systems.
in writing. - this report makes some very serious proposals, such as the inclusion of water in the internal market - a clear change of position from previous ep resolutions, which considered that the management of water resources should not be subject to the rules of the internal market, a position which has also been advocated by numerous organisations and trade unions, including the european federation of public services unions. the ep now calls for the rules of the internal market to be adapted to the specific characteristics of the water sector, a move which is another step towards privatising the water sector and water services. we regret the rejection of our alternative motion for a resolution - a motion which focuses on defending the right to water and the public management, possession and ownership of this precious com mon good and the services associated with it. the report opens the door to the interests of transnational water companies and to the privatisation and commercialisation of this unique and irreplaceable resource. these are the interests which the right wing and the social democrats represent in this parliament defend. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. - this report considers water to be an inalienable public good essential to life and that it is a common good of humanity and that access to water should be a fundamental and universal right. it also proposes measures to ensure that everyone can enjoy this vital public good more effectively and efficiently. this is an important position from the european parliament at a time when attempts are being made to turn water into a commercial asset. for these reasons i voted in favour, considering that water is a human right and a public good. i am, however, opposed to an internal market in water technology. i advocate for public investment and knowledge in water and for the effective transfer and sharing of that knowledge by the people of the world. it's a matter of avoiding water control by the few and making it a resource of all for all. i also believe that this is a resource that should be at the service of the community and the planet.
in writing. − considering that decisive action at eu level is needed to address the current and future water challenges facing our continent, i voted in favour of this report. i agree with the rapporteur's request to the commission to incorporate the strategic recommendations contained in this report into the formulation of the 'plan to preserve europe's water resources' as an important contribution to a more effective and better integrated water policy and to the promotion of a level playing field for its implementation at international level.
in writing. − sustainable management of water resources is vital to ensure that all ecosystems receive sufficient quantities of good quality water for their proper functioning and to be able to provide essential services in terms of food safety and quality, health and the economy. the 2000 water framework directive sets the objective of achieving 'good ecological, chemical and quantitative status' of european water bodies by 2015. however, the pace of implementation of the directive in the countries and regions of europe has been slow and uneven. while the main concern should be the implementation of current legislation in the water sector, there are specific gaps that need to be filled, either by adapting existing legislation to water priorities or by developing new legislation to address the impact of specific activities or sectors, and the importance of cooperation between different economic operators and other stakeholders for the sustainable management of water resources should be taken into account at this level. i voted in favour of this because i believe that we must move towards a more effective and integrated water policy.
in writing. − water is a public good that needs to be protected and its proper use ensured. more than 800 million people still lack access to safe drinking water, and the un targets for basic sanitation remain far from being met. for these reasons, this report analyses and identifies the challenges and obstacles to the correct implementation of the 2000 water directive in the member states, in particular the objective of 'good ecological, chemical and quantitative status' of european water bodies by 2015. i support this report which sets out a number of ideas to be included in the 'plan to preserve europe's water resources', to be published later this year. i would like to highlight a few key ideas: the importance of effective participation of the regions in policy-making, there is no single policy; water should be a cross-cutting issue in all eu policies, with a holistic approach to all water resources; there must be an eu policy on water reuse and recycling; enhanced research and innovation, particularly in regions with water scarcity; and international cooperation for sustainable water development.
in writing. - i support this proposal, considering that the greatest advantage of the ecall system will be the reduction in the number of deaths and the severity of injuries caused by road accidents, due to the faster arrival of emergency services at the scene of the accident. this faster arrival of rescue teams, police and trailers will allow for faster clearance of the accident site, thus allowing ecall to reduce congestion time and contribute to the efficiency of road transport in europe and to a reduction of external costs. the authorities consider that the advantages of ecall are mainly evident in the reduction of the medical consequences of an accident, the risk of other accidents at the same location and the impact of an accident on the flow of traffic. it should however be recalled that for the automotive industry, the mandatory introduction of an eu-wide public ecall system in all newly type-approved vehicles will open up new opportunities for the deployment of additional value-added services using the ecall telematics platform.
in writing. − from 2015, all cars sold in the european union will have to have an emergency call system in case of a serious accident. the system will automatically transmit the data on the location of the vehicle and the time of the accident to the nearest emergency service. the adoption of this report will help to reduce the number of deaths and the severity of injuries caused by road accidents by allowing emergency services to arrive at the scene of an accident more quickly. the faster arrival of emergency aid will also reduce the medical consequences of accidents, reduce the risk of further accidents at the same site and reduce traffic congestion. it is emphasised that any applications introduced in the vehicle and based on the ecall platform should fully comply with the relevant data protection and privacy regulations. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the ecall service is a service that automatically makes an emergency call when a serious road accident occurs. for this to happen, the vehicle must be equipped with ecall. ecall does not prevent accidents but it improves the efficiency of emergency services. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the installation of the ecall service should be mandatory and should not be based on or dependent on the existence of a positive commercial justification for an autonomous ecall service, since the advantages it brings to society as a whole must also be considered.
in writing. − the launch of the ecall service, based on the 112 emergency number, should ensure automatic notification of emergency services in the event of an accident, thus making a decisive contribution to reducing the number of fatalities on european roads and the severity of the consequences of injuries through faster, qualified and properly equipped assistance. this pan-european vehicle emergency call service should be operational in all member states and european states joining this initiative and should be available in any vehicle, regardless of the brand, country and actual location of the vehicle. initially, it was planned that this service would become fully operational in 2009. unfortunately, progress has been too slow and the roll-out of the pan-european ecall service is still lagging behind. it is therefore urgent to ensure that this system, considered to be one of the most efficient and cost-effective for road safety, can be implemented in a timely and harmonised manner throughout europe, as 80% of the citizens surveyed would like. i support this initiative which allows for the establishment of a regulatory framework for the deployment of this service, which will make it possible to speed up the process by making the installation of ecall devices compulsory in all new vehicles type-approved in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the regulation of the ecall service, as i regarded the introduction of an emergency call system, which is accessible and reliable and can work in an integrated way across europe, as a positive step towards significantly reducing the number of deaths and injuries on european roads.
in writing. - in portugal we have the proverb 'a minute in life is worth more than life in a minute' which, i suppose, should be echoed in similar sayings in other countries. however, this advice to be calm and cautious is often countered by the need to act quickly, especially in emergency situations. there, a minute can make the difference between life and death. the ecall service aims to meet this need in the case of road accidents. in an age when mobile phones are a pervasive technology, it is hard to understand why alert and rescue solutions are not being studied and applied that are aware of their existence and that take advantage of their full potential. the automatic nature of their activation raises some doubts as regards the privacy of vehicle occupants and the traceability of journeys. these doubts do not call into question my overall favourable assessment of the initiative or my desire that its implementation can actually help to save lives. unfortunately, my country has a high rate of road accidents. i hope that ecall will lessen this scourge.
in writing. − active and passive safety for motorists has improved significantly over the last few decades: seat belts, airbags, energy absorption zones, sensors, lighting, etc. everything that can be done for the preservation of human life must be done. the report under review, by dieter-lebrecht koch and olga sehnalová, focuses on the introductory regulation of the ecall service. the aim of this measure is to save lives and it consists in making it compulsory to introduce in motor vehicles an alert system which, in the event of an accident, and as is already the case in some high-end vehicles, automatically calls the emergency services and provides the coordinates of the location of the vehicle involved. how many people could not be alive if they had been treated at the time of the accident? how many were imprisoned, often in inhospitable and/ or hidden places, bleeding to death without being able to call for help? i voted in favour of this report because i believe that ecall will be an added value that will save many lives and many resources from 2015 onwards and as such it should be considered a public service accessible to all.
in writing. − it is essential that medical assistance in the event of road accidents reaches the accident site as soon as possible, and that it responds adequately and effectively to the variety of situations that may require its presence. the proposed service, known as ecall, is a system to be installed on all vehicles which, in the event of an accident, automatically calls the nearest emergency centre with information on the time, exact location and direction of the vehicle. during this call, the emergency service operator will be able to speak and hear what is happening inside the vehicle. this technology allows access to a set of geographical, location and trajectory data collected and monitored in real time by satellite. without forgetting other details concerning possible limitations of the system, this last aspect of access to data places us before obvious requirements concerning a high level of protection of personal data and the guarantee that individual freedoms are guaranteed in all their dimensions. unfortunately, the report does not adequately address these requirements.
in writing. - ecall is a mechanism to automatically make an emergency call in the event of a serious road accident. having studied the economic advantages of this system and its good impact on the sector, and considering that the greatest advantage of the ecall system will be the reduction in the number of deaths and the severity of injuries caused by road accidents, due to the faster arrival of the emergency services at the scene of the accident, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − ecall is a european initiative whose main objective is to provide rapid assistance to drivers involved in road accidents throughout the european union. the project involves installing a device in all vehicles which automatically calls 112 in the event of a road accident and sends the coordinates via gps to the competent authorities. ecall does not prevent accidents but it improves the efficiency of emergency services. when emergency services are immediately notified and know the location of the accident, they can arrive quickly and reduce the risk of death and serious injury. it is emphasised that any applications introduced in the vehicle and based on the ecall platform should fully comply with the relevant data protection and privacy regulations. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the ecall system aims to improve assistance in the event of an accident by automatically calling the emergency services with information on the accident location, time, precise location, description and direction. ecall can thus reduce the number of fatalities and the severity of injuries. this service, already introduced by the ec but on a voluntary basis, is now imposed as compulsory for all vehicles from 2015. the member states are therefore asked to define the infrastructure that will receive emergency calls and to incorporate this system into their networks, so that calls are a public service and free of charge, like 112. furthermore, it must be interoperable with existing private systems and the sharing of data must be strictly necessary for the specific purpose. i support this report because i consider it to be a valuable addition to the european citizen and at the same time to open up new opportunities for the automotive industry, since it can be used for new applications and services.
in writing. − promoting the attractiveness of investment in europe requires the implementation of measures and reforms, both at european and national level. to make europe a more attractive place to invest and work, it is essential to create the conditions for businesses to enjoy a climate of fair competition. the development of the internal market must be one of the eu's main priorities for the development of a favourable and motivating climate for businesses and consumers. this is particularly relevant in a globalised economy, where companies have some flexibility in the choice of their place of business. the regulatory environment will need to be improved to enable businesses in europe to improve their competitiveness and their capacity for growth and job creation.
in writing. − in a context of incipient economic growth, market instability and marked global imbalances, the eu needs to strengthen its competitive advantages in order to attract investment, promote balanced growth and enhance cohesion. in this report, which i supported, the commission is asked to draw up a communication to assess and promote the attractiveness of investment in europe. it should include recommendations to member states and be one of the foundations for creating a more investment-friendly environment in the eu. despite being the world's largest destination for foreign direct investment, europe needs to address its weaknesses and exploit its strengths and advantages in the face of increasing competition from developing countries. the weak economic growth in europe, high taxes and excessive public debt are factors that raise investor concerns. on the other hand, the high quality and diversity of our human capital, the predictability of the business environment and the high potential of the research and innovation sectors play in favour of our market and are factors that should be strengthened and enhanced.
in writing. − promoting the attractiveness of investment in europe requires the implementation of measures and reforms, both at european and national level. to make europe a more attractive place to invest and work, it is essential to create the conditions for businesses to enjoy an open and fair competition climate. the internal market is one of the eu's main priorities for developing a favourable and motivating climate for businesses and consumers. it is essential to promote both ways of attracting investment: (a) making europe an attractive destination for foreign investors and (b) making the business climate attractive for national entrepreneurs. i therefore voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential, among other things, to develop the eu's human capital, modernise the labour markets and education systems of the member states and promote the mobility of students, researchers, teachers and workers.
in writing. − the effects of the economic and financial crisis that has been ravaging the eu have contributed significantly to increasing economic and social disparities between member states and regions, including a huge imbalance in the distribution of investment. until recently, this area was dependent on bilateral treaties, with a large number of agreements, which creates a huge fragmentation and contributes to a lack of uniformity in the treatment and level of growth of eu investors. with the lisbon treaty conferring exclusive competence on foreign direct investment, the eu will be responsible for defining an international investment policy that enhances competitiveness and contributes to achieving the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. a comprehensive common investment policy should be established which can provide investors with greater legal certainty and a stable, predictable, fair and properly regulated framework. it is important to make europe a more attractive place to invest and work by creating the conditions for businesses to enjoy an open competition environment, which will generate important productivity gains with a positive impact on growth and employment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'investment attractiveness in europe' as it calls on the commission to present a strategy to make foreign direct investment in europe more attractive, in particular through investment in cohesion policies, job creation for the youngest, combating tax evasion, and facilitating the mobility of citizens and workers.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis in europe, with restrictive policies on public investment because of economic governance, has led to the bankruptcy of many companies, the unprecedented rise in unemployment and the 'ghost' of a social collapse. the eu, despite the crisis, remains the main destination for global investment. but there are some companies that are moving their factories to countries with lower taxes, less bureaucracy and cheaper labor. it is therefore urgent to reverse this situation by equipping our business fabric with less bureaucracy and less taxation so as to prevent the world trade centre from moving from europe to the pacific. to do this, it is essential to make our companies more competitive by focusing on innovation and technological development. i therefore welcome the presentation of this report on the attractiveness of investment in europe, which i voted in favour of, and i hope that it will contribute to strengthening economic growth in the european union, since it is a region which gives priority to the safety and quality of capital, has highly qualified technicians, has an excellent transport network, is committed to innovation and technological development and ensures monetary and financial stability.
in writing. - this report focuses on what it considers to be the need for the development of the internal market, for the development of a favourable and motivating climate for businesses and consumers, capable of attracting both international and domestic investment. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the following are among the elements of this framework: the promotion of the establishment of new global free trade agreements with third countries; structural reforms by member states to ensure greater coordination between eu policies; the modernisation of labour markets flexicurity; education and vocational training in coordination with the needs of the single market; economic governance; the euro plus pact. in other words, a defiance of the savage neoliberal agenda that has been driving the process of civilizational regression under way in the eu and the unprecedented aggression against workers and peoples. we obviously voted against it.
in writing. - low economic growth in europe, high taxes and excessive public debt are factors that raise investor fears. but on the other hand, the high quality and diversity of our human capital, the predictability of the business environment and the high potential of the research and innovation sectors play in favour of our market and are factors that must be strengthened and enhanced. i agree with this line and therefore support the rapporteur's request to the commission to draw up a communication to assess and promote the attractiveness of investment in europe. it should include recommendations to member states and be one of the foundations for creating a more investment-friendly environment in the eu. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in a context of incipient economic growth, market instability and marked global imbalances, the eu needs to strengthen its competitive advantages in order to attract investment to the region, promoting balanced growth and greater cohesion. in this report, which i have supported, the commission is asked to draw up a communication to assess and promote the attractiveness of investment in europe. it should include recommendations to member states and be one of the foundations for creating a more investment-friendly environment in the eu. despite being the largest destination for foreign direct investment, europe needs to correct its weaknesses and exploit its advantages and strengths, taking into account the increasing competition from developing countries. the weak economic growth in europe, high taxes and excessive public debt are factors that raise investor concerns. on the other hand, the high quality and diversity of our human capital, the predictability of the business environment and the high potential of the research and innovation sectors play in favour of our market and are factors that should be strengthened and enhanced.
in writing. − the crisis affecting the eu and the world in general has highlighted the need for the eu to do introspective work to understand the challenges and to enhance the eu's added value vis-à-vis its main trading partners. globalisation also requires the different actors to coordinate with each other in the different macroeconomic and financial policies. the report sets out a number of areas where the eu, and also the member states, need to improve their effectiveness and/or rethink strategies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it also reaffirms the need for stability in the euro area and for greater ecb intervention in the financial system, as the contraction in credit is having a detrimental effect on the real economy. finally, i would also like to stress the importance of investments in transport, energy and ict infrastructure for increasing europe's long-term competitiveness.
in writing. − the establishment of deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas) with the eu is one of the main incentives for the partner countries (ukraine, moldova, georgia, armenia and azerbaijan) to pursue democratic reforms, economic stabilisation and integration, and trade transparency and regulation. these partnerships are a priority objective of the european neighbourhood policy with regard to the eastern partners. i voted in favour of the report because i consider it crucial to continue the deepening of the european neighbourhood policy with regard to the eastern partners, in particular ukraine, moldova, georgia, armenia and azerbaijan.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'trade aspects of the eastern partnership' because i considered positive the general and country-specific recommendations on the negotiation of comprehensive and in-depth agreements, the importance of technical assistance, the harmonisation of legislation, environmental standards and the involvement of civil society.
in writing. - it is commonplace to say that trading partners do not go to war with each other. commonplace, that, which doesn't even correspond to the truth. but what does correspond to it is the observation that the conflict between partners of this type tends to be less and almost always seeks to exhaust the avenues of dialogue before any military action is launched. after years of tension on its eastern borders as a result of the cold war and the sovietisation of the region, it is reassuring to see that, despite differences and divergences, there is now a willingness between the european union and its eastern partners to give priority to trade issues and to develop ever closer relations that are productive for all parties. it is not good to ignore the fact that there is still a long way to go, particularly in the areas of democracy, human rights, the fight against corruption and violence, but it is fair to acknowledge the work that has been done and some successes that have been achieved. i hope that this partnership will develop to everyone's satisfaction and will enable economic growth for all, a rapprochement between people and cultures with respect for their respective identities.
in writing. the report by miloslav ransdorf aims to promote and strengthen trade relations in the eu's eastern partnership. in recent decades, the eu has favoured trade relations with eastern european countries, encouraging their democratisation and seeking to implement respect for fundamental human rights. this is an important partnership for these countries but also a key one for the eu, and can thus overcome some of the problems facing the eastern member states. it would be essential to solve the problem of the gas pipeline with moldova, by opening up energy corridors, and to overcome the visa issues with ukraine. as for georgia, although the democratic ideals of the president are known, it is necessary to continue with the social reforms under way in order to put an end to the scourge of child labour. i welcome the establishment of this new eastern partnership whose agreement covers not only trade in goods but also other areas such as the strengthening of solidarity and non-tariff barriers as the eu must continue to support these peoples in order to achieve closer integration, always based on absolute respect for the primacy of democracy and the rule of law.
in writing. the majority in the european parliament is pushing ahead with a course which the reality of the eu itself (the largest free trade area in the world) shows does not contribute to solving any of the problems facing workers and people. the insistence on the free movement of goods and capital between the eu and these countries and the integration of the markets of the eastern partnership countries advocated here, through the creation of deep and comprehensive free trade areas, only favours economic groups with a dominant position in production and marketing. the consequences of this are those we know well from the portuguese reality, with the destruction of smes and national production, creating even more unemployment and the destruction of workers' rights. moreover, as the eu situation demonstrates, free trade has impacts that go far beyond mere trade issues, influencing the state of democracy as well - for worse, we added. free trade favours the concentration and centralisation of wealth in the economically richer countries and their economic groups and is contrary to the development of fairer trade relations, based on sovereignty and the defence and development of national productions, which only the complementarity of trade relations between countries would ensure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of agreeing with the considerations set out in this resolution, which the european parliament proposes to be taken into account by the council, the commission and the european external action service when negotiating and implementing the trade parts of the association agreements with armenia, azerbaijan, georgia, moldova and ukraine, and in developing the eu's trade relations with belarus.
in writing. − most of the eu's neighbouring countries, namely armenia, azerbaijan, belarus, georgia, moldova and ukraine, rely on the eu as their main export market and source of imports. trade in goods and services is a powerful tool to stimulate economic growth, increase competitiveness and support economic recovery, while also contributing to influencing the state of democracy and strengthening the rule of law. in this context, the conclusion and implementation of the association agreements, including deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas), is assumed as a priority objective and ambition of the european neighbourhood policy with regard to the eastern partners. the success of the cftas will, however, depend to a large extent on institutional strengthening and the proper implementation of commitments, which can only be ensured in an open, transparent and corruption-free negotiating environment. in this respect, and despite the progress already achieved, it is essential that the eastern partners commit themselves to initiating all the necessary institutional and structural reforms.
in writing. − the conclusion and implementation of association agreements, including deep and comprehensive free trade areas, is a priority objective of the european neighbourhood policy with regard to the eastern partners. parliament welcomed the strengthening of cooperation between the eu and its eastern partners in a number of areas, in particular industry, smes, research, development and innovation, ict and tourism, and considered that differentiation, accompanied by the application of the 'more for more' principle in the context of neighbourhood policy, was a step in the right direction for the development of trade relations with the eastern partners. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the report.
mr president, i have the honour of belonging to a political group which accepts dissent when it is justified. these are the reasons why i have supported acta from the beginning. firstly, because piracy and counterfeiting are increasing and causing enormous damage to the european union's economy and employment potential. secondly, because there can be no effective protection of intellectual property rights without international cooperation. we can stop chinese counterfeits at our borders, we can't do it in the united states or australia or canada without international agreement. thirdly, there can be no effective protection of intellectual property rights without covering piracy and counterfeiting on the internet. the commercial offer of counterfeit goods on the internet is no less serious than in a shop on a street in brussels or strasbourg. fourth, i believe that acta does not call into question individual freedoms on the internet. fifthly, intellectual property rights are fundamental rights of citizens, piracy and counterfeiting are not. (in accordance with rule 149 (8), the speaker accepts to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure.)
blue-card answer. – you are right that i am very proud to be a professor of constitutional law and i maintain that, as most of the arguments against acta are of a legal and constitutional nature, we should wait for the ruling of the court of justice of the european union, because it is the only authority to rule on this matter.
in europe, the only response of governments to the needs of the people has been austerity. we need a europe of solidarity, not this europe of punishment. the european parliament is the only institution with direct democratic legitimacy. the european budget cannot be left to governments alone. we know what your recipe is. so we will not vote against the mandate. we have many and profound differences with the majority in this parliament. we will not support, for example, direct transfers of medicines to multinationals or the appropriations for a stronger europe, but we will go to the fight, we will introduce budgetary amendments so that it is an effective response to the crisis. the commission is proposing an increase in the level of payments, but in reality these are commitments already made to the cohesion funds and the european social fund, where the main creditors are none other than italy, spain, greece and portugal. with fewer resources we will only have less employment and more poverty and more social exclusion. this is not the time for half-hearted words or half-hearted decisions by the leaders of europe. it is time to change this europe hitherto held hostage by the markets and the banks. this is the time, more than any other, to respond to the real problems of real people, to give priority to job creation, health, education, social security. that's why we fight, here and out there.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the budget of the european union that we are proposing for 2013 is 6.8% higher than the 2012 budget in terms of payment expenditure, amounting to some eur 138 billion. i hope that this increase, this increase, will be sufficient to meet the commitments made by the european union, and i would like to highlight the investments that each member state is making, particularly in cohesion policy. i would remind you that at the end of 2011, the commission was unable to reimburse some eur 11 billion, and eur 11 billion in payment claims were due due due to the insufficient level of appropriations. this is because the council has acted uncompromisingly against itself. i call on the council to act rigorously and realistically so as not to prevent the payment of the appropriations already contracted and already committed, which are important for ensuring economic growth and employment and, at the same time, achieving economic, social and territorial cohesion. finally, like the rapporteur, i welcome and congratulate him on the excellent work he has done, advocating the promotion of growth and employment, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and youth, and the focus on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as priorities for this 2013 budget.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european union's trade policy is not distorted by the fact that the european union is not a member of the wto. two substantive issues have been raised in relation to this agreement, one raised at inta, the committee on international trade, concerning a question of consistency or political congruence between the union's position which, on the one hand, condemns without qualification the israeli policy on the occupied territories and the israeli peace process, but, on the other hand, is willing to upgrade, to raise, the status of trade relations between the union and israel. the second problem, which is the one under discussion now, not the first, was raised by afet when inta asked afet for an opinion on the question of political congruence. afet has raised this problem, which is that the agreement does not clearly specify the territorial scope of its application. what it says literally is that products imported from israel which are covered by this protocol, which are in particular pharmaceutical products, will enter the internal market of the union without the need for a conformity and acceptance procedure within the union, provided that they have been certified by the competent israeli authorities and this is precisely the object of the agreement. the question that has been raised is whether this can apply to products manufactured outside the legal territory of israel, in the face of the european union's understanding that it does not include the occupied territories, or whether it excludes all products from these territories. the problem has been raised in connection with article 9 of the protocol establishing the existence of authorities responsible on the israeli side for ensuring this conformity assessment and acceptance procedure for products exported from israel to the european union benefiting from this bilateral recognition scheme for reciprocal procedures and therefore the question raised by afet and supported by inta and therefore the question is put by the chairmen of the two committees, are four questions, five questions, i would insist, for my part, on the first two. firstly, whether the european commission can give a legally binding assurance that it will not accept, tacitly or otherwise, that the territorial jurisdiction of the israeli responsible authority referred to in article 9 of the protocol covers territories which have come under israeli administration since 1967, and the second question, which is convergent with this, is whether the european commission is able to ensure that no industrial products manufactured in the settlements, the israeli occupied territories, the settlements, the west bank, the west bank and east jerusalem will be certified under this protocol. the clear answer to these two questions is essential because it is a question of exactly what the territorial scope of the agreement is and indeed of this protocol, which was clearly drafted and poorly negotiated, because it is clear that this question had to be asked, and that the european union cannot accept that products from settlements in the occupied territories can benefit from this regime given to the israeli authorities, and either there is a unilateral interpretation by the commission which makes it clear to this parliament that the protocol applies only to the legal territory of israel in accordance with the european union's understanding of what the legal territory of israel is, or we have a problem which may influence the decision of the members of the inta committee, which is the committee responsible for this matter. and we think it is in the committee's own interest to give a clear, self-confident answer, that first the union - i will conclude, mr president - that the commission will ask for the necessary elements to ensure that the israeli responsible authority has no competence beyond the legal territory of israel and that the protocol cannot be interpreted in any other way than by being limited precisely to the legal territory of israel.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i would like to greet you, the commissioner, and express my satisfaction at the fact that on such an important subject i probably won't need four minutes because fortunately we have dealt with it on the basis of a broad consensus. as we all know, the commission's proposal is a proposal to ensure the continuity of direct payments for the transitional year between the current common agricultural policy and the reformed cap, already under the new multiannual financial framework. this proposal sets out, for the calendar year 2013, i.e. the financial year 2014, the national envelopes for direct payments and, within the overall amount available, for direct payments, aims to accommodate the phasing-in effect of the new member states and to ensure the equivalent mechanism of modulation to ensure stability in the amounts allocated to farmers. for the transitional year, that is to say for 2013, the committee on agriculture of our parliament has introduced some new provisions to accommodate the particular situations of certain member states as regards the financing of the second pillar of the cap, i am speaking in particular of the united kingdom, germany and sweden. the possibility for the new member states to use, or continue to use, national top-ups in the first pillar of the cap and a similar provision for the republic of cyprus following the request made in the trilogue negotiations was also included for 2013. the outcome of these negotiations was duly conveyed to the members of comagri and their results were widely agreed. i would like to thank the european commission for its availability, the danish presidency for its cooperation, the council, and also the comagri secretariat, my colleagues in the committee on agriculture and the juri committee, and the shadow rapporteurs for the speed with which they dealt with this dossier, because we wanted above all to ensure that the payments for this transitional year were guaranteed. i therefore make a strong appeal for a wide vote and approval of this text during this plenary session in order to complete the role of co-legislator on this dossier and to allow the official publication of this legislation so that payments to farmers for next year can be made in due time. that is all, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen.
the rapporteur. - mr president, i just wanted to thank you for the kind words you all, my colleagues and the commissioner, have addressed to me. i must tell you that it is very gratifying to work towards a goal which can move and unite us all and that when we all concentrate on a common objective it is possible to move mountains, even in a very short time, and indeed it was a time-consuming task, but we were all aware of the need to achieve it and to solve at the same time various problems which were arising in several member states and i am pleased to note the existence of this constructive spirit, not only within our working party in the committee on agriculture of the european parliament but also on the part of the commission and the council, and i hope that this good working climate which is being created can be a good stimulus for the difficult and difficult work ahead of us, but i am sure that if we maintain this spirit we will also achieve positive results and when i speak of positive results i am certainly speaking of those results which are the ones we all want to serve as european farmers.
the rapporteur. - the report on my responsibility, which is being discussed here today in this context, concerning the controls by the member states of operations forming part of eagf financing, reflects comagri's understanding of the alignment of this dossier with the provisions on delegated and implementing acts introduced by the treaty of lisbon. for implementing acts, the procedures have been introduced in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by the commission of the exercise of implementing powers. the delegated acts were adopted in accordance with the progress of the informal negotiations between the three institutions. it is therefore essential that parliament confirms this position by the vote that will take place tomorrow, a vote which i hope will be as wide as possible, and which is intended to reaffirm parliament's position on its role as co-legislator. i would therefore like to call on the commission and the council to give a strict interpretation of the lisbon treaty so that we can make progress in our work, particularly in the context of the reform of the cap. time is of the essence. the treaty of lisbon transforms the old comitology procedure to introduce, in my view, a clear distinction between administrative acts, i.e. implementing acts, and on the other hand to give the european parliament a strengthened right of veto over these acts on an equal footing with the council, i.e. the right to revoke the delegation of an act to the european commission. there remains an institutionalised procedure whereby the commission continues to be assisted by the specialised committees for implementing acts and consultation of member states' experts for the preparation of delegated acts is unavoidable. it is certainly necessary to strike a balance between what can be categorised in a basic act as a delegated act or an implementing act whenever the boundaries between the different provisions leave room for interpretation and it is in the spirit of this balance that i reiterate my call for a strict interpretation of the wording of the treaty in which parliament is invested with new powers. i am not asking the european parliament to replace the executive of the union, the european commission, let alone the governments of the member states. i only ask for the european parliament to have a power of control over the new comitology which, without promising the effectiveness of decision-making, is commensurate with its new role as co-legislator.
mr president, commissioner, as the shadow rapporteur on the regulation on organic production and labelling of organic products, i congratulate my colleague martin häusling on the thoughtful way in which he conducted the trilogue in the context of its necessary alignment with the lisbon treaty, particularly as regards implementing measures and delegated measures, which is precisely the aspect which made it impossible to reach consensus. the council has been adamant about articles 16 and 21, insisting that authorization for specific substances should be an implementing act and not a delegated act, as parliament rightly claims on the basis of article 290 (3) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the commission first supported parliament's claim and then adopted the council's. to resolve the impasse, parliament proposed that the list of substances be inserted in the annex to the basic act, which was also rejected. the majority of parliament's other proposals were unanimous. in this context, and because the disagreement in this trilogue is common to many other reports in parliament, it is important first to move forward to a vote on the first reading in plenary, even without consensus, to show our determination on this matter and to gain support and political strength for today and for the future; secondly, to promote the resolution of this recurrent problem in the various committees of parliament and a burden for the citizens, at the highest level of the european parliament.
the rapporteur. - after all that has been said, i have little more to add, of course, except to say that the speeches we have just heard have confirmed without any doubt the consistent position of parliament on this matter and have also made clear the need for us to reach an agreement quickly. i am sure that the commission is as committed as we are to achieving this objective and i sincerely hope that this will be possible as soon as possible.
mr president, i wish you every success in your presidency, which we need. i am rapporteur on the revision of the maternity leave directive that the european parliament adopted in october 2010. so far, despite the flexibility shown by parliament, the council has not responded to our proposals or shown any interest in even an informal dialogue to find a balanced solution that serves european families. the crisis has served as an alibi for those who consider motherhood a minor issue and do not want to make decisions. there's money for the banks but no money for the people. but as serious as the financial crisis is the demographic crisis. europe's population is ageing, which puts social security systems and economic growth itself at risk. we hope that the cypriot presidency will be able to unblock the matter and bring the council to the attention of parliament.
cyprus assumes the presidency of the council at a time of great importance for the future years of the european union. the financial perspective for the next programming period is being prepared and the negotiations on the future cohesion policy are taking place at interinstitutional level. as stated in the presidency's programme of activities, the focus will be on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework in order to conclude negotiations by the end of this year and reach an agreement on a budget that can make a real and effective contribution to growth and job creation in the european union. cohesion policy should not, however, be a minor issue, since it is the main development policy of the union, offering important financial instruments to reduce disparities between regions and promote economic, social and territorial cohesion through solidarity, and an effective dialogue is needed between the council and the european parliament, which for the first time is a co-legislator in this field.
in writing. − i approve the report because i agree with the suggested alignment procedure to deal with the 2013 financial provisions for member states that have acceded to the union after 2004. it seems to me that the way in which a phased introduction of direct payments will be done is appropriate to provide those member states with the possibility of granting, without prejudice to the commission's transitional authorisation and national aids to farmers in 2013. it is thus a text which represents the real interests of the beneficiaries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of and support this action because i believe it is consistent with the overall strategy for developing a sector which remains in difficulty, a sector dominated by high volatility in markets, environmental challenges and a need for environmental safety. simplified, functional procedures, procedures that guarantee direct delivery to ensure a fund - which is in great difficulty at the moment - a chance for real development: it is the reason i voted in favour, it is the reason that allows direct payment to young farmers to give them a chance and an opportunity for initiative and entrepreneurial development that can result in significant employment impacts.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'common rules for direct support schemes for farmers' because it includes measures to update agricultural legislation to the new provisions, thus ensuring greater legal clarity and certainty, and bringing this regulation into line with the provisions of the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − a number of legislative changes to bring existing legislation into line with the lisbon treaty have taken place since its entry into force. agricultural matters could not fail to be revised in the same way and to incorporate the forms of wording considered most appropriate and in keeping with not only the letter but also the spirit of the treaty. i hope that the questions of competence and the division of powers between the european institutions will not distract them from the need to act together in order to serve citizens properly. i also hope that the simplification envisaged will be translated into concrete measures which will improve the lives of farmers and reduce the bureaucratic burden on them, which is not always a reasonable one.
in writing. the report under review, by paolo de castro, concerns a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy (cap) and establishing certain support schemes for farmers. the lisbon treaty changed the old comitology system (strengthening the powers of the ep which now has a veto on delegated acts) by replacing it with a two-tier structure of delegated acts and implementing acts, thus necessitating a new alignment of the current legislative body. considering that the commission's proposals were balanced, and taking into account the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development which calls for delegated acts in direct payments to farmers and that the current proposal provides for a simplification of regulation (ec) no 73/2009, in particular as regards the legislative environment and the reduction of the administrative burden on member states, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report is part of the joint debate - alignment with the lisbon treaty, involving a set of reports by the committee on agriculture, which amends the legislative text of the old comitology system by the two-tier structure, imposed by the treaty, consisting of delegated and implementing acts, which empowers the commission to exercise implementing and enforcement powers without consulting parliament. the report aims to amend the proposal for a regulation establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers by delegating to the commission the power to adopt acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the union in order to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of the regulation. the three questions that arise here are: the use of delegated acts when it comes to amending the annexes to the regulation, when farmers are granted rights, or when there may be negative consequences and whenever it is necessary to preserve the coherence of the legal text. the aim is to simplify the regulation, which in some respects could prove positive, in particular by exempting farmers from submitting declarations of area when they are less than one hectare. we are concerned, however, that some of the decision-making levels handed over to the commission do not benefit small farmers.
in writing. − as a consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission under regulation (ec) no 73/2009 should be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i therefore voted in favour of the report on the alignment of the common rules for direct support schemes for farmers.
in writing. − this report concerns the alignment of the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy, including the simplification of the same. the main aim is to bring the current body of legislation into line with the new provisions of the lisbon treaty on the exercise of the commission's implementing powers. the proposal also includes a number of provisions designed to simplify the current legislative environment and to reduce the administrative burden on member states. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in september 2010, the european commission presented a proposal for a regulation to establish common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy. i support this report because i believe that the set of provisions which lead to the simplification of the current legislative environment and the reduction of the administrative burden for the member states is positive. these amendments concern cross-compliance and the possibility for member states to exempt farmers who do not apply for area payments and declare only small areas (less than one hectare) from the requirement to submit an area declaration. finally, i believe that the european commission should adopt acts in accordance with article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the union, but should consult experts during the preparatory work.
in writing. - i support this report, considering that the commission proposes to extend to all member states the current funding possibilities for supporting the establishment and administrative operation of producer groups, but this proposal considers that it is discriminatory to exclude support for producer groups in the fruit and vegetables sector, which i clearly agree with. in order to avoid different interpretations of regulation (ec) no 1698/2005, it seems useful to allow member states that have opted for regional programmes to calculate the automatic cancellation of financial resources at member state level. as regards the harmonization of the eafrd and the erdf (european regional development fund), i also agree with the proposal that vat for non-taxable persons (public institutions) should be eligible for an eafrd contribution, which would certainly be a great help to many citizens in rural areas.
in writing. - i supported the adoption of this text which incorporates, for the special case of the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd), the implementation of the lisbon treaty and strengthens the powers of european citizens who, through their representatives in parliament, see their position defended in the development and control of european regulations. the text also guarantees simplification of procedures and reduction of administrative costs, reinforcing european legislation is no longer synonymous with complexity and cost.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development' because i considered it necessary to update agricultural legislation to the new provisions, in particular as regards the delegated acts necessary for the proper functioning of the common market established by the legislator and the implementing acts, in order to ensure uniform application in the different member states and to avoid unfair competition.
in writing. - parliament should adopt a strong common position on the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). this position should be closer to that advocated by the european commission. only in this way can we make sustained progress in the negotiations with the council.
in writing. the report under consideration, drawn up by mr de castro, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). the lisbon treaty changed the old comitology system (strengthening the powers of the ep which now has a veto on delegated acts) by replacing it with a two-tier structure of delegated acts and implementing acts, thus necessitating a new alignment of the current legislative body. in order to facilitate the smooth functioning of the institutions, the council and parliament may delegate to the commission the implementation of certain acts for a period of five years, subject to their being revoked at any time. the commission proposal ensures an efficient and targeted use of the eafrd, introduces some simplification measures such as the extension of natura 2000 to the areas referred to in article 10 of the habitats directive (92/43/eec), and taking into account the report of the committee on agriculture and rural development and the opinion of the committee on regional development, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − as regards alignment with the lisbon treaty, the commission overall proposes to ensure efficient and targeted use of funds in terms of the treatment of beneficiaries, which is mostly covered by the delegated acts in this proposal. other provisions of the programmes, measures and rules are dealt with in the proposal by means of implementing acts to be adopted by the member states. the proposal also contains a number of positive aspects in terms of simplification, including an extension to the areas described in article 10 of the habitats directive, on support for the natura 2000 network, a reduction in the number of annual progress reports and summary reports on rural development, and easier checks on cross compliance. the rules on the use of advisory services are also amended. it also makes it possible for all member states to provide financing to support the creation and administrative operation of producer groups, and harmonizes the eafrd and the erdf (european regional development fund), proposing that vat for non-taxable persons (public institutions) be made eligible for an eafrd contribution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the alignment of the support scheme for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development with the treaty of lisbon, pursuant to articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development by the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). the main aim is to bring this diploma into line with the new provisions of the lisbon treaty on the exercise of the commission's implementing powers. it is also proposed to extend to all member states the existing financing possibilities for supporting the establishment and administrative operation of producer groups. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european agricultural fund for rural development aims to improve the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sectors, the environment, the landscape, the quality of life in rural areas and the promotion of the diversification of the rural economy. the fund is intended to complement national, regional and local actions contributing to community priorities, and the european commission and the member states monitor the fund's coherence and compatibility with community support measures. i am voting in favour of this report because i agree that the only beneficiaries eligible for the aid referred to in this article are farmers or farmers' associations who devote a substantial part of their working time to agricultural activities and derive a significant part of their income from them. in order to ensure greater consistency and uniformity in the application of the rules at the level of the european agricultural fund for rural development, i welcome the suggestion that each member state should set up a national rural network involving regional and local representatives. however, the european commission should lay down rules for the establishment and operation of such networks.
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing at the outset the urgency of the need to adopt this regulation. failure to conclude the negotiation of the commission's proposal for adaptation would impose a disproportionate burden on the next substantial reform of the common agricultural policy (in the context of the general reform of the cap). the guiding principle should be to strike a balance between the need for the commission to act efficiently and expeditiously, on the one hand, and the powers of the parliament and the council under the lisbon treaty with regard to the legislative process. i also welcome the other amendments which are of a horizontal nature, reflecting the common understanding established between the institutions on the use of delegated acts, as well as the recent entry into force of the regulation laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers.
in writing. - recalling the need to align council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets (single cmo) with the new distinction between delegated and implementing powers of the commission introduced by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the proposal gives the legislative right and the power to define the essential elements of the common organisation of agricultural markets. the definition of the conditions and criteria for determining aid, export refunds and minimum export price remains within the competence of the legislator. i vote in favour of the motion.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the common organization of agricultural markets and specific provisions for certain agricultural products, as i considered it necessary to update the existing agricultural legislation to the new provisions, as provided for in the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - with the lisbon treaty, regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 on the single common market organisation (single cmo) needs to be adapted to the distinction between delegated and implementing powers established by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). article 290 allows the legislator to delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general scope supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of a legislative act. article 291 tfeu allows member states to adopt all measures of national law necessary to implement legally binding union acts. the aim of the proposal we are now voting on is to adapt the single cmo regulation, including some amendments to make it more understandable and effective.
in writing. - all alignment exercises are essentially technical exercises but they contain a certain political sensitivity and always raise some controversy. i am therefore pleased that this issue has been discussed in the european parliament (ep) before the debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap). the lisbon treaty changed the old comitology system (strengthening the powers of the ep which now has a veto on delegated acts) by replacing it with a two-tier structure of delegated acts and implementing acts, thus necessitating a new alignment of the current legislative body. the report, which was drawn up by mr de castro, analyses the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (single cmo regulation). i voted in favour of this report which calls for the strengthening of the powers of the ep conferred by the lisbon treaty and calls on the council to share more responsibilities, which will be to the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. − insertion of the alignment by the treaty of lisbon, which consists of the adoption of delegated and implementing acts empowering the commission to exercise implementing and enforcement powers and without consulting parliament, the report inserts this update in the regulation establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and specific provisions for certain agricultural products. the legislature is thus empowered to define the objectives of market intervention measures, production limitation systems and aid schemes, as well as the establishment of a system of import and export licences, the basic elements of the marketing and production rules and the principle of the application of penalties, reductions and exclusions. the report focuses on technical adaptation, but there are important positive aspects raised by the rapporteur: the facilitation of cross compliance checks, reducing the administrative burden on member states; the rejection of discrimination against producers in the fruit and vegetables sector; and the eligibility of vat for the eafrd.
in writing. − i voted in favour of adapting council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 establishing a single common organisation of the market (cmo) to the distinction between delegated powers and implementing powers of the commission established by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu).
in writing. the commission proposes to amend the rules on the application of the principle of proportionality by the member states to the application of the principle of proportionality. the guiding principle should be to strike a balance between the need for the commission to act efficiently and expeditiously and the powers of parliament and the council under the lisbon treaty in the legislative process. it should be noted that the adoption of this regulation is particularly urgent. it should be borne in mind that failure to conclude the negotiations on the commission's proposal for adjustment would impose a disproportionate burden on the next substantial reform of the single common agricultural policy, as part of the general reform of the cap.
in writing. the european commission's proposal aims to establish a single common market organisation by clarifying the commission's current powers in 'delegated powers' and 'implementing powers'. this proposal gives the legislator the fundamental aspects of intervention in the agricultural market, such as production limitation systems and aid schemes, determined by the legislator. i support the adoption of this report because i believe that the legislator must define the basic elements of the common agricultural policy and the political decisions which shape its structure, instruments and effects. the aim is to describe specific rules for certain agricultural products such as beef and butter. in order to ensure the proper functioning of the regime established by this regulation, due attention should be paid to regional and local authorities, island regions, sparsely populated, mountainous and outermost regions, in order to avoid aggravating the constraints which such regions already face.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing with some amendments as regards the conditions for delegation (period of delegation, deadline for objecting to a delegated act, extension of this period, committee procedure, etc.). i would stress the importance of these amendments, but above all the amendments to be made to the expenditure to be financed by the eagf and the recovery procedure, as they constitute a simplification by eliminating two council regulations and a reduction in the administrative burden on the member states, contributing to more efficient and faster financing for the beneficiaries. i strongly urge the european union to make progress towards increasingly simplifying the financing of the eagf, because let us not forget that the regions need it, as they usually wait for long periods of time before they can apply the financing and the necessary measures.
in writing. the text links the financing of the common agricultural policy with the aim of streamlining the complex bureaucracy of the european agricultural sector. in particular, the changes relating to the costs to be financed by european agriculture so as to ensure the recovery process constitute a simplification, by eliminating two council regulations and thus reducing the administrative burden on the states. that is why i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the financing of the common agricultural policy, considering that the proposed amendments concerning expenditure to be financed by the eagf and the recovery procedure represent a simplification, by eliminating two council regulations and reducing the administrative burden on the member states, bringing this regulation into line with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. − the amendments to regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 are designed to bring it into line with the treaty of lisbon and to define fully the scope and limits of the powers of the european commission so that it can ensure the proper functioning of the system provided for therein. the entry into force of the treaty has raised doubts as to the form and scope of delegated acts by the commission and of the intervention of the european parliament. i believe that everyone will have to win if the conditions for delegation are clear and allow for proper follow-up, which means greater transparency of procedures and decisions and greater follow-up by, in particular, the european parliament. the common agricultural policy is too important a dimension in the community budget for it to be otherwise.
in writing. - we can say that farmers, especially small farmers, are the 'poor relatives' of our society. despite its invaluable contribution to creating and maintaining a healthy environment, preserving ecosystems, the truth is that it is a very unprofitable and unattractive activity. only 6% of the european population is engaged in agriculture, and one third of them are over 60 years old. without the participation of young people, agriculture has no future. we must therefore increase the incentives for rural areas in the context of the new reform of the common agricultural policy (cap). the lisbon treaty changed the old comitology system (strengthening the powers of the ep which now has a veto on delegated acts) by replacing it with a two-tier structure of delegated acts and implementing acts, thus necessitating a new alignment of the current legislative body. although it was a much debated report and agreement on horizontal alignment is impossible to achieve - a majority in the council can always block an implementing act - the ep cannot relinquish its prerogatives in such sensitive areas as these, so i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the alignment of the financing system for the common agricultural policy with the treaty of lisbon, on the basis of the criteria laid down in articles 290 and 291 for each type of act.
in writing. − following the treaty of lisbon, it was necessary to align regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 with the new provisions on the exercise of implementing powers by the commission. in this context, some amendments are proposed as regards the conditions of delegation (period of delegation, deadline for objecting to a delegated act, extension of that period, committee procedure, etc.) in line with the common understanding on practical arrangements for the use of delegated acts adopted by the conference of presidents on 3 march 2011 and with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. the proposal also provides for changes to the expenditure to be financed by the eaggf and the recovery procedure, which in turn simplify matters by eliminating two council regulations and reducing the administrative burden on the member states. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european commission proposal aims to identify the delegated powers, define the implementing powers conferred on the commission under regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 and establish the appropriate procedure for the adoption of the acts concerned. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the european commission should have the power to ensure that there are uniform conditions for the application of the regulations of the common agricultural policy (cap). in addition, the amendments to be made to the expenditure to be financed by the european agricultural guarantee fund (eagf) and to the recovery procedure constitute a simplification by eliminating two council regulations and reducing the administrative burden on the member states. in the next programming period of the community budget for 2014-2020, the cap aims to strengthen the competitiveness of the agricultural sector and to ensure that european citizens have healthier and better quality food.
in writing. - i approve this report because it aims above all to update existing legislation in the light of the new provisions laid down in the treaty of lisbon, which has given the european parliament new powers. this proposal will contribute to the better functioning of the market and aims to avoid unfair competition.
in writing. - i supported the adoption of this text incorporating, for the special case of the production and labelling of organic products, the implementation of the lisbon treaty. i am strengthening the european parliament's powers of oversight over european legislation, which allows our citizens to express their views through their representatives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'organic production and labelling of organic products' because it includes measures to ensure the quality of organic products and the proper application of the rules by the entities, bodies and operators concerned, thus contributing to the proper functioning of the internal market and trade.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) establishes the distinction between delegated and implementing powers. article 290 allows the legislator to delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general scope supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of a legislative act. article 291 tfeu allows member states to adopt all measures of national law necessary to implement legally binding union acts. in the proposal which we are now adopting, the commission has made a strict distinction between provisions of a more general nature, laying down additional elements (article 290) and elements of a technical nature which are closely linked to the power of decision which the member states enjoy in implementing measures (article 291). therefore, no amendments are proposed to the proposal for regulation (ec) no 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products as regards the classification of delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the democratic republic of congo. when it comes to sensitive issues in the field of organic production, the protection of european consumers with regard to products circulating in the european union (eu) is at stake. with the implementation of the lisbon treaty (tl), all legislation had to be brought into line with this treaty, which implies the change of the old comitology system which is now replaced by a two-tier structure: delegated acts and implementing acts. the report under discussion, by martin häusling, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on organic production and labelling of organic products. while adapting legislation to the tl, it is essential not to disappoint the expectations of consumers of organic products by creating clear conditions on the labelling that clarify and inform people, but which free these products from all excessive bureaucracy. i voted in favour of this report and i hope that the commission will shortly present a proposal to improve the organic farming regulation as regards the substances that can be used in this type of production.
in writing. - this report aims to bring this regulation into line with the lisbon treaty. the legislative text of the former comitology system is now aligned with the two-tier structure, imposed by the treaty, consisting of delegated and implementing acts, which empowers the commission to exercise implementing and enforcement powers without consulting parliament. according to the rapporteur, in order to better take account of consumer expectations in relation to the quality of organic products, the commission shall adopt, by means of delegated acts, the specific rules, measures and conditions necessary for the application of this regulation. these include, for example, the authorisation of products and substances to be used in organic production; processing methods for processed food; the conditions for the application of the ban on the use of gmos and products obtained from or by means of gmos; labelling rules, specific requirements and criteria as regards the presentation, composition, size and design of the organic production logo of the european union, and conditions and rights of use. but as experience has shown, particularly in the case of gmos, these are areas where the commission has been defending the rights of corporations but not those of citizens and consumers.
in writing. − since, according to the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the current regulation (ec) no 834/2007 must be aligned on the basis of the principle of the distinction between implementing measures and delegated measures, i voted in favour of this report which aligns the said regulation with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu).
in writing. − in accordance with the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), the current regulation (ec) no 834/2007 should be aligned on the principle of the distinction between implementing acts and delegated acts. in this proposal, the commission has made a strict distinction between provisions of a more general nature, laying down additional elements (article 290) and elements of a technical nature which are closely linked to the power of decision which the member states have with regard to the implementation of these measures (article 291). therefore, no amendments are proposed to the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 834/2007 on organic production and labelling of organic products as regards the classification of delegated and implementing acts. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) states that the current organic production and labelling regulation should be aligned on the principle of the distinction between implementing measures and delegated measures. article 290 tfeu provides that the legislator is to 'delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general scope supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of a legislative act'. i agree with this report because i believe that the delegated acts defined by the european commission aim to improve consumer expectations regarding the quality of organic products, to ensure the proper application of the rules by the entities, bodies and operators concerned and the proper functioning of the internal market and trade. i also think it is essential that, in the context of the preparatory work for implementing acts, the european commission continues to listen to the advisory groups so that stakeholders and ngos can express themselves in a regular and structured way.
in writing. - i approve this report because it is essentially another proposal for legislative alignment arising from the requirements of the lisbon treaty which gave the european parliament powers of codecision in agricultural legislation. i therefore agree that the commission may use executive acts to prevent unfair competition on the market.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 73/2009 lays down the rules for the current system of direct payments to farmers, which will be replaced by other proposals in the reform of the cap for the period 2014-2020. in its proposals for the multiannual financial framework of the cap for the period 2014-2020, the commission proposes to use a crisis reserve to address the need for additional funding due to sudden crises in agriculture. i agree with the solution contained in the report and therefore voted in favour of my colleague's proposal, because i believe it is necessary to maintain the existing financial framework for the year 2013 to ensure continuity of payments and levels of support for effective agricultural development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this 'transition' proposal on the financial provisions for 2013 for member states which acceded to the european union after 2004, as i considered that a reduction in support in 2013 should be avoided in sectors benefiting until 2012 from complementary national direct payments, as such a possibility is not available for 2013.
in writing. - issues surrounding the legislative acts of the union, especially as regards their delimitation, have occupied a significant part of the activity of this chamber. i understand that this is the case and that the community legal order is systematically made to appear coherent and sufficiently understandable. it is an essentially formal process but one which needs to be carried out because the material consequences of any inadequacy could challenge the balance of power within the union and, more seriously, jeopardise citizens' rights.
in writing. - i would like to start by congratulating mr capoulas santos on his excellent report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 485/2008 on controls by member states of operations forming part of the system of financing by the european agricultural guarantee fund (eagf). the lisbon treaty changed the old comitology system (strengthening the powers of the ep which now has a veto on delegated acts) by replacing it with a two-tier structure of delegated acts and implementing acts, thus necessitating a new alignment of the current legislative body. all alignment exercises are essentially technical exercises but they contain a certain political sensitivity and always raise some controversy. i am therefore pleased that this issue has been discussed in the european parliament (ep) before the debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap). i voted in favour of this report and i share almost all the comments on the need for the ep to take a firm and coherent position in defending its monitoring role in committee in accordance with its new status as co-legislator.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which supports the european commission's proposal, which is limited to the changes needed to bring the system of financing by the european agricultural guarantee fund into line with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu).
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 485/2008 on controls by member states of operations forming part of the system of financing by the european agricultural guarantee fund. the main aim is to bring this diploma into line with the new provisions of the lisbon treaty on the exercise of the commission's implementing powers. i voted in favour.
in writing. − in december 2010, the european commission presented a proposal for a regulation on controls by member states of operations forming part of the system of financing by the european agricultural guarantee fund. the purpose of this proposal is to identify the commission's delegated and implementing powers in that regulation and to lay down the procedures for adopting the acts in question. i support the report by my colleague, which ensures that rules and provisions common to all the member states of the european union are applied uniformly, thus avoiding market disparities in the financing of the european agricultural guarantee fund.
in writing. - i agree with this report because it aims to ensure that previous commitments in the area of trade between the eu and russia are maintained, a partnership which must now also be seen in the light of the new legal framework coming from russia as a result of its membership of the world trade organisation.
in writing. - i supported the adoption of this agreement because it represents a new stage in the trade cooperation involved with russia, when the country joined the wto. the opening up of services in the russian market (telecommunications, insurance, tourism, transport, etc.) to foreign competition is a real challenge, both for russian consumers, who will benefit from a wider and improved range of services, and for our business in the eu, which will find new markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'eu-russia agreement on the maintenance of commitments on trade in services' because i considered that this partnership and cooperation agreement should be seen in the light of the new legal framework resulting from russia's recent accession to the world trade organisation, in particular through the bilateral 'new agreement' with a view to obtaining additional commitments which more solidly guarantee the rights of european service providers when they are established on russian territory.
in writing. - the opening of the russian market is always a good sign for the european union. its entry into the world trade organisation is good news and an important opportunity for europe. despite the many remaining issues and informal blockages to further liberalisation of trade with russia, i believe this is another step in the right direction. it is now clear not only that part of europe is heavily dependent on russian energy but also that european service companies have a chance of success in russia. despite the natural mistrust of those who have been in conflict for so many years, i believe that we will win if we succeed in promoting greater integration between the two areas and if the union is able to make russia a strategic partner of the first importance. both the eu and russia today face important geostrategic challenges which would be more easily overcome if they both chose to align their positions.
in writing. − this recommendation concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union (eu) and the government of the russian federation concerning the maintenance of commitments on trade in services contained in the existing eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement (pca), taking into account the application for accession to the world trade organisation (wto). russia is a strategic partner of the eu which, by joining the wto, is opening up to foreign services after some twenty years of timid reforms of privatisation and liberalisation of its national economy. this opening, albeit gradual, will allow foreign service providers to enter sectors such as construction, information technology, professional services, telecommunications, transport, postal services, media, distribution, tourism and travel services and financial services. i welcome russia's accession to the wto and the advantages it brings, and the fact that with this new agreement which will replace the 1994 gpa, the eu will continue to benefit from a more favourable regime for maritime trade and the temporary movement of officials for professional purposes.
in writing. − the conclusion of this agreement is a step forward long awaited by the economic groups of the major eu powers. the process of russia's accession to the wto entails a process of liberalisation and privatisation in several areas, notably in the services sector, opening its market to foreign investment. the services market in russia began to develop only in the 1990s, after the end of the soviet union and after the victory of the counterrevolution which dismantled an important public service sector. with this agreement, russia renounces part of its sovereignty and undertakes to ban virtually all national preferential treatment in order to allow eu economic groups access to its services market. the beneficiaries of this agreement signed by the eu are the same as always: the major economic groups of the major powers who see this as creating additional business opportunities in an area where they can have a competitive advantage. the usual winners and losers of this agreement are the same: workers in this sector threatened with redundancy, smes threatened by competition from the large monopolies in the sector and working-class consumers who see prices rise and quality fall. so we can only vote against.
in writing. − as this is a consensual agreement, i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament of 4 july 2012 on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the government of the russian federation concerning the maintenance of commitments on trade in services contained in the existing eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement.
in writing. − the eu-russia agreement on the maintenance of commitments on trade in services contained in the eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement is part of the new legal framework resulting from russia's recent accession to the world trade organisation. the process of liberalising trade in services included in the multilateral package on russia's accession to the wto will provide substantially increased opportunities for foreign service providers to gain market access, particularly in the field of telecommunications, tourism, transport, as well as in the financial sector itself. i believe that this could lead not only to additional business opportunities for european companies but also to improvements in the situation of european exporters and investors who are currently working with russia, particularly in terms of non-discrimination and free competition, so i voted in favour.
in writing. − the eu-russia agreement on the maintenance of commitments on trade in services contained in the eu-russia partnership and cooperation agreement is part of the new legal framework resulting from russia's recent accession to the world trade organisation. the commission has also provided information on the implementation of the state aid rules in the russian federation. the most important commitments include concessions in the telecommunications sector, the authorization of the commercial presence of foreign insurers on the russian market nine years after accession, and the opening up of transport services, including maritime, road and inland waterway services, to foreigners. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the recommendation.
in writing. - i approve. the european union negotiated this bilateral agreement to have a compensation mechanism for car component producers in case eu exports decrease as a result of this agreement. this agreement, which is also linked to commitments to the world trade organisation, must be supported by the eu.
in writing. - i supported the adoption of this text following russia's accession to the wto. however, the european union must demand that our russian partner complies as soon as possible with the rules of equity provided by the organization, so that finally mutual benefits and restrictions can be placed with this trading partner.
in writing. - at present, there are conflicting forecasts about the opening up of the russian market following its accession to the wto. on the one hand, a gain is expected for the automobile industry as a whole, but on the other hand, a decrease in exports is foreseen for parts and components. the distortions of the market in automotive parts and components introduced by the russian authorities are of particular concern not only to the industry in the european union but also to policy-makers, and the provision of a compensation mechanism for any drop in exports to russia may prove to be more than just warned as necessary. the european union must clearly and carefully monitor the implementation of this agreement.
in writing. − the slow and gradual opening up of the russian federation's economy has boosted above-average economic growth over the past few years, placing russia in the group of emerging economies (alongside brazil, india and china). this growth has led russia to apply for membership of the world trade organisation (wto). the conditions for russia's accession to the wto, approved by the council of europe, were agreed in november 2011 and provide for special treatment favourable to the russian federation until 1 july 2018. the risks to the european automobile industry, which represents 2.3 million direct jobs and 10.3 million indirect jobs, are real. although the russian automobile market is expanding rapidly and could be an excellent business opportunity for european companies in the sector, there is no guarantee that this will be the case. i voted in favour of this recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union (eu), of the eu-russia bilateral agreement on trade in motor vehicle parts and components, as it contains a compensation mechanism for eu producers of automotive components in the event of a significant decrease in their exports to russia.
in writing. - this agreement is another example of the contradictory process of russia's accession to the wto. russia has committed itself to ensuring that by 2018 trade in eu automotive parts and components into russia does not jeopardise the industry in certain regions of the country. the commission has therefore decided to maintain the existing regime for the automotive sector by continuing to restrict access to the russian market for manufacturers of motor vehicles and components beyond the requirements of the russian domestic market. the eu, for its part, is pressing for russia's accession to the wto and is demanding compensation mechanisms to ensure that the profits of its exporting economic groups are not jeopardised. in the immediate future, it is positive that russia tries to anchor and defend this industry in regions where it has traditionally anchored, maintaining production and employment at least until 2018. at the end of this period, their domestic production will be exposed to external competition, particularly from eu production, whose installed capacity may be at an advantage, leaving many jobs and production at risk of disappearing in many regions.
in writing. - the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the agreement between the european union and the government of the russian federation on trade in parts and components for motor vehicles between the european union and the russian federation is without objection, and i therefore voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - the accession of the russian federation to the world trade organisation has a very positive effect, as it establishes a regulated multilateral trading system. however, its foreign investment regime in the automotive sector, initiated in 2005 (trim 1) and extended in 2006 to automotive components, became more restrictive in 2010 (trim 2) to the extent that, at the time of the accession of the russian federation to the wto, it could be declared to be contrary to the agreement on trade-related investment measures. thus, the need arose for the eu to conclude bilateral agreements with russia for the legal guarantee of additional and complementary bilateral trade concessions. in this context, the eu negotiated this bilateral agreement to have a mechanism for compensation of manufacturers of automotive components, to be applied in case of realisation of the risk of falling exports of these products to russia resulting from the implementation of the russian automotive investment programme until 2018. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − for several years russia has been trying to attract foreign manufacturers of motor vehicles and related components to its territory in order to compensate for the decline of the domestic automotive industry and to provide employment for the workforce in this sector. with the accession of the russian federation to the wto, it would be possible to declare this investment contrary to the agreement on trade-related investment measures of this organisation, which prohibits investment measures in the production of goods that cause trade distorting or restrictive effects. however, under the conditions of russia's accession to the wto, this automotive investment programme will be exempted from the obligation to ensure that all laws, regulations and measures relating to trade and investment applied in the russian federation are consistent with the provisions of the wto. in this context, the eu negotiated a bilateral agreement to have a mechanism for compensating manufacturers of automotive components to be applied in case of a realisation of the risk of falling exports of these products to russia resulting from the implementation of the russian automotive investment programme until 2018. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the agreement in the european parliament.
in writing. - i approve this report because it is an adaptation to the rules to which the russian federation has committed itself following its accession to the world trade organisation. the proposal has already been adopted unanimously in the commission and is therefore consensual, in that it is simply an adaptation to a new legislative framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the agreement because it shows the common will to strengthen and rebalance our partnership with russia. however, the eu and russia must now honour their commitments and thereby promote the establishment of fair trade conditions with the eu, particularly as regards trade in raw materials.
in writing. the rapporteur rightly expressed her concern about the lack of legal certainty in this agreement and the absence of dispute settlement mechanisms, which gives russia the freedom to interpret its contours more freely than would be desirable and limits the ability of the european union to assert its interests in the event of an increase in raw material export duties. the rapporteur, despite this warning, understands, and i believe she does, that the agreement should be supported by the house. we must, after its adoption, monitor its application closely and hope that the cautions expressed will be refuted in practice and that russia will be true to the spirit of the agreement.
in writing. − although political relations between the european union (eu) and the government of the russian federation are sometimes very fraught with regard to human rights violations, and this parliament has even adopted resolutions condemning such violations, the truth is that russia is a very important partner for the eu and its accession to the world trade organisation (wto) will significantly contribute to improving its institutional and commercial relationship. the draft recommendation drawn up by ms inese vaidere concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the eu and the government of russia on the introduction or increase of export duties on raw materials to which russia has committed itself during the wto accession negotiations. given the recommendation of the committee on international trade and the fact that it is essential that this agreement be concluded before the ratification of the wto accession agreement by the russian federation, i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that, although it is a temporary agreement, it will improve and stabilise trade relations between the eu and russia.
in writing. − due to the internal process of struggle and the necessary combination of interests between the different sectors of capital in russia, russia is seeking to postpone the future impacts of the mandatory liberalisation of important sectors of its economy, taking into account the process of its accession to the wto. this agreement allows russia, in a not entirely clear manner, to retain sovereignty over the definition of export duties currently applied to exports of raw materials. the report states that this agreement is not enough and that more needs to be done. you can see the ambition. russia accounts for more than 10% of the world production of these raw materials or more than 10% of world exports. the eu has important current or potential import interests. a binding agreement or the guarantee of a more rapid liberalisation process could be more advantageous for large eu capital which would thus see reduced import costs for products which are in many cases crucial for industry in many eu countries. we support the inalienable right of russia or any other country to exercise sovereignty over its resources, including natural resources, and to impose export duties as it sees fit in its own interests, irrespective of the provisions of the wto.
in writing. - as this is a measure which is considered to bring added value to the eu economy, i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the russian federation on the introduction or increase of export duties on raw materials.
in writing. − this bilateral agreement with the russian federation was negotiated in the context of its accession to the world trade organisation. in this context, the russian federation undertook to gradually reduce or eliminate the export duties currently applied. according to the bilateral agreement, the russian government undertakes to make every effort not to introduce or increase export duties on raw materials listed in the annex to the agreement, as these are raw materials in respect of which the eu has significant current or potential import interests and in which there are risks of global supply stress. in this way, if russia intends to apply export duties on these products, it will consult the european commission at least two months in advance in order to reach a solution that takes into account the interests of both parties. the eu is therefore expected to make a firm commitment to the reforms required immediately by wto accession, as well as to reciprocate and engage in negotiations for a new mutually beneficial agreement, particularly in the fields of energy, trade and investment.
in writing. − this bilateral agreement with the russian federation was negotiated in the context of its accession to the world trade organisation, in which the russian federation has undertaken to gradually reduce or eliminate the export duties currently applied. this undertaking on export duty rates was included in the russian goods leniency and commitment schedule. there are numerous products which are not included in the said schedule and this agreement presents a rather long list, covering very important raw materials which are not listed in the said list but for which russia holds more than 10% of the world production or more than 10% of the world exports. these are raw materials in which the eu has important import interests and in which there are risks of global supply stress. they include agricultural products and seeds, numerous chemical, ferrous and energy products, minerals, cotton derivatives and animal products, among others. these are raw materials for which the russian government undertakes to make every effort not to introduce or increase export duties. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the agreement.
in writing. - i vote against this draft agreement, mainly for reasons associated with the definition of 'commercial scale', the use of criminal sanctions as the treaty suggests, excessive policing of the internet, the potential disregard for privacy and indeed individual freedoms, among other matters. i understand that other measures will have to be taken to protect intellectual property.
in writing. the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) is a new international agreement designed to establish a general international framework to combat counterfeiting and piracy. the problems acta seeks to tackle are real and growing, and in the case of intellectual property rights in europe, they have cost european businesses €250 billion a year and destroyed 185 billion jobs in europe. however, the acta text has unintended consequences, is not sufficiently precise as regards individual criminalisation, the definition of 'for commercial purposes', the role of internet service providers and the possible disruption of the flow of medicines. moreover, acta, in its aim of combating piracy and counterfeiting, should and must include in its negotiations countries such as india, china and brazil, where the greatest violations of intellectual property occur. the benefits of acta are thus clearly outweighed by the potential threats to individual freedoms. in view of the above, and because the european parliament cannot ensure adequate protection of the rights of european citizens, i am voting in favour of this report which recommends that acta should not be approved.
in writing. - i agree with the need for a new international agreement to combat counterfeiting and piracy. in europe alone, the cost of infringement of intellectual property rights is estimated at eur 250 billion and the loss of 185 billion jobs every year. acta, by pretending to be all-inclusive, confuses commodities and goods with the free exchange of data on the internet. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat piracy and counterfeiting, and it is therefore important that the commission should be able to take action to combat piracy and counterfeiting. the benefits of acta are thus clearly outweighed by the potential threats to individual freedoms. for these reasons, and in the belief that this is the best way of defending the rights of european citizens, i am voting in favour of the martin report which recommends that acta should not be approved.
in writing. - acta sought to solve real problems, which have worsened in recent years, with the global trade in pirated and counterfeit goods estimated at over eur 250 billion. however, acta raised some doubts as to its scope, in particular with regard to infringements in the digital environment and the role of internet service providers in identifying such infringements. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body. i voted against this agreement (and therefore in favour of the report), but i think it is absolutely necessary to start a broad discussion now with a view to a new agreement involving so-called 'civil society' which should use this text of acta as a basis, obviously revising the part on 'protection of intellectual property rights in the digital environment' as the only way to protect our most innovative industrial sector. why not split acta in two and start the legal procedures now for the discussion and approval of the chapters that do not include the 'digital environment'? we'd gain in time and efficiency...
in writing. − the fight against counterfeiting is a priority and international cooperation is essential to achieve this objective. however, the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) has raised important questions about possible violations of fundamental rights and threats to individual freedom that cannot and should not be dismissed. therefore, and given that the european commission has referred acta to the court of justice for a review of its compatibility with the treaties and the charter of fundamental rights, i considered it appropriate that parliament should await the court's decision before voting to approve or reject acta. for that reason, and out of respect for the decisions of the courts, i abstained from voting on acta.
in writing. the recommendation under consideration, drawn up by mr david martin, concerns the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) between the european union (eu) and its member states, australia, canada, japan, the republic of korea, the united mexican states, the kingdom of morocco, new zealand, the republic of singapore, the swiss confederation and the united states of america. while the preservation of intellectual property rights - the raw material of many european citizens - is essential and the fight against piracy and counterfeiting of products mainly from emerging economies is a priority, the present proposal for an agreement is critical in terms of the violation of fundamental rights in access to the internet. i believe that the eu should have first revised the ipr directive and adapted eu law to the internet environment before negotiating this agreement. it should be noted that the acta, which aims to combat piracy and counterfeiting, did not include in its negotiations countries such as india, china and brazil, where the highest violations of intellectual property occur. for these reasons i voted against acta.
in writing. - the long acta process is thus (for now) over. this process has triggered a remarkable mobilization of citizens throughout europe (and beyond), promoting public debate on acta and denouncing some of its dangers and consequences. the european commission has conducted the whole process in a manner that has avoided democratic debate and scrutiny, and the negotiations have been conducted in a highly secretive manner, which is reason enough to be suspicious of their content. we believe that it is necessary to combat counterfeiting, particularly counterfeiting with which the eu has been associated, of products such as port wine (and others) or textile products, which affect portugal so much, and which is inseparable from the eu's own policies, for example in the agricultural and commercial fields. but we cannot agree - and we strongly reject - to an agreement which establishes measures for the surveillance and spying of citizens, ranging from the surveillance of computer data, through internet service providers, to the search of personal luggage. this is an unacceptable violation of citizens' privacy, which violates the free flow of information and knowledge. an agreement which, moreover, could have implications in areas as diverse as access to medicines or seeds.
in writing. - having rejected the postponement, i voted in accordance with my understanding of the merits of the treaty which brings an indispensable international dimension to the protection of iprs guaranteed in the eu and of the insubstantiality of the objections against the treaty in the field of individual freedoms. first, iprs are fundamental rights protected by the tfeu. second, as generous as internet freedom is, it does not include freedom from piracy and counterfeiting. third, acta does not affect the freedom of internet users, but only the freedom to provide pirated or counterfeit material on a commercial scale. finally, acta is not self-executing, does not create rights or obligations for anyone, nor does it criminalize anything: it can only be operated by internal law.
in writing. - before the vote on this report, a colleague of mine suggested that this document be returned to the european commission, as he considered it to be worthy of improvement. such return was rejected. this document contains two issues which should be kept separate: the serious problem of counterfeiting and the issue of online content (online piracy). since the root document should have been structured differently, i voted in favour of its return. in the final vote i abstained on a matter of principle on the serious problem of counterfeiting, which has cost european companies 250 billion euros a year. the european union is also destroying 185 billion jobs a year.
in writing. − the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement (acta) aims to combat counterfeiting for commercial purposes and online piracy by coordinating the global enforcement of existing copyright infringement laws. counterfeiting and piracy have increased substantially and this increase continues. the consequences of the growth of these illegal activities range from economic damage to health and safety hazards. the european union is seriously hampered by the absence of effective global coordination of copyright protection. however, the intended benefits of this international agreement are far outweighed by the potential threats to individual freedoms. given the vagueness of some aspects of the text and the uncertainty of its interpretation, the european parliament cannot ensure the adequate protection of the rights of european citizens under acta. in addition, acta, in its efforts to combat piracy and counterfeiting, should and must include in its negotiations countries such as india, china and brazil, where the highest levels of intellectual property infringement occur. i therefore voted in favour of this report recommending that acta not be approved.
in writing. the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement is a new international agreement designed to establish a general international framework to combat counterfeiting and piracy. the problems that the agreement seeks to tackle are real and growing, and have led to high costs for european businesses and the destruction of many jobs in europe. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids and aids-related diseases, and calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids and aids. moreover, if the agreement is to combat piracy and counterfeiting, it should include in its negotiations countries such as india, china and brazil, where the highest levels of intellectual property infringement occur. in this way, the intended benefits of acta are clearly outweighed by the potential threats to individual freedoms. for the reasons i have just given, and because the european parliament cannot ensure that the rights of european citizens are adequately protected, i voted against the agreement.
in writing. - i approve the report insofar as it is another proposal for alignment, in this case to adapt the matters of direct payments to the new member states that joined the eu after 2004. these states were allowed to give national aid in addition to eu direct payments and this will no longer be possible from 2013. it is important that this proposal enters into force on 1 january 2013.
in writing. − the regulation on direct payments to farmers is in force until the end of 2013. however, certain financial provisions contained in it will expire before that date. this report, for reasons of consistency, amends the regulations, extending the application of these provisions until the end of the financial year 2013. the european parliament has approved the report by an overwhelming majority and i congratulate it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'direct payments to farmers' because i considered it positive that the proposal sets the net ceilings for direct payments for 2013 in order to ensure, on the one hand, continuity of payment levels and, on the other hand, to take account of the progressive introduction of direct payments in the new member states and the cessation of voluntary modulation.
in writing. − from 2014, new support schemes for farmers will be implemented as part of the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap) 2014-2020. this report analyses the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 as regards the application of direct payments to farmers in respect of 2013, the last year of application of the current schemes. the purpose of this proposal is to define the net maximum amounts that farmers will be able to receive in the year 2013, which should take into account the compulsory modulation that was applied in 2012. in addition, some financial provisions are circumscribed to the end of 2012 and the calendar year 2013 corresponds to the financial year 2014. direct payments to farmers shall be settled by 31 october each year. however, the rural development budget was frozen and this situation needed to be unlocked as the sector is in crisis and faces a lack of support from member states. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i voted in favour of, since without this commitment some farmers would receive less, by about 20%.
in writing. − this report sets out the rules for the current system of direct payments to farmers for the year 2013, as some financial provisions are limited to 2012. the next cap - whose reform is currently under discussion - for the period 2014-2020 will only come into force in january 2014. additional legislation is therefore needed to provide for direct payments during this hiatus. this proposal sets net ceilings for direct payments through an adjustment mechanism similar to the compulsory modulation applied in 2012. despite the technical justification of the proposal, our abstention reflects our fundamental disagreement with the current system of direct payments. a system of granting subsidies based on historical values - with colossal inequalities between producers, productions and countries - and without any obligation to produce. the intensity of the modulation, now known as the adjustment, is not changed, with reductions of 10% for amounts between eur 5 000 and eur 300 000 and reductions of 14% for amounts above eur 300 000. a mechanism would be required whose maximum value would be well below the proposed one. it would be necessary to support those who actually produce, linking direct payments to production and balancing the unfair distribution of aid that is taking place today.
in writing. − in agreement with the contents of this document, i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament of 4 july 2012 on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 as regards the application of direct payments to farmers in respect of 2013.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 lays down the rules for the current system of direct payments to farmers. it is envisaged that this regulation will be replaced by the proposals for reform of the cap for 2014-2020, which should enter into force as from january 2014. the main objective of this proposal is to set the net ceilings for direct payments for the calendar year 2013 by establishing an adjustment mechanism similar to modulation, in order to ensure, on the one hand, continuity of payment levels and, on the other hand, to take account of the progressive introduction of direct payments in the new member states and the cessation of voluntary modulation. in addition, the commission, in its proposals for the multiannual financial framework and the cap 2014-2020, proposes the use of a new crisis reserve to meet additional financing needs resulting from an unexpected crisis in the agricultural sector. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 73/2009 lays down the rules for the current system of direct payments to farmers, which is to be replaced in 2014-2020 by the new proposals for reform of the common agricultural policy. the main strategic objective of this regulation is to set net ceilings for direct payments for the calendar year 2013 by establishing an adjustment mechanism similar to modulation. i agree with the rapporteur on the importance of ensuring the continuity of the financing of commitments for rural development expenditure for the financial year 2014 and ensuring that the amount of direct payments during the calendar year 2013 is maintained at a level similar to that of 2012. i believe that it is essential to strengthen the importance of rural development policy in certain member states because this economic activity is an essential pillar of the development of european regions.
in writing. - i approve the report. i would remind you that the eu budget has a decisive role as an instrument to help the eu recover from the current economic crisis. this same budget should focus on support for the promotion of competitiveness, growth and jobs, especially support for young people and small and medium-sized enterprises. the s&d group's suggestions having been approved, the budget no longer has an austerity logic at its core, and it is always possible to go further, no matter what.
in writing. the report for which i voted concerns the opening of the second stage of the budget and sets out parliament's position. the main objective for the 2013 budget is to defend an adequate level of resources to enable commitments made in previous years to be met, while at the same time ensuring a continuity of investments to support the competitiveness of european businesses at a time of severe economic crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'mandate for the trilogue' because it presents a balanced approach and rejects 'austerity' as the only methodology. the report includes measures to boost new investment to implement the eu 2020 strategy, including through growth programmes, the fight against youth unemployment, strategic investments in the internal market and infrastructure.
in writing. - the fact that the european union is currently experiencing a profound crisis and is seeking a stable and coherent way of organising its economic and financial life is reflected in the budgets it implements. weighting of the fund options and spending moderation is recommended in such a way that, while not jeopardising the sustained continuation of the union's activity and the stimulus it gives to growth, it does not jeopardise the 'health' of its accounts. this restraint must be managed intelligently and expenditure must be cut in a way that is not only not blind but is aware of the real realities and needs and does not call into question the commitments made to external partners. what at first seems like the square of the circle must not only be tried but achieved. a european union with consolidated and balanced accounts will be better able to meet the challenges of the future and will send a positive signal to the member states and to the markets.
in writing. − the european union budget we are proposing for 2013 is 6.8% higher than the 2012 budget in terms of payment expenditure, reaching around eur 138 billion. i hope that this increase, this increase, will be sufficient to meet the commitments made by the european union, and i would like to highlight the investments that each member state is making, particularly in cohesion policy. it is noted that the implementation of the structural funds in the current 2007/2013 mff is already at cruising speed and strong implementation is expected next year. i would remind you that at the end of 2011, the commission was unable to reimburse some eur 11 billion in payment claims due to insufficient appropriations. this is because the council has acted uncompromisingly against itself. finally, i congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done and, like him, i support the promotion of growth and jobs, support for small and medium-sized enterprises and youth, and the focus on smart, sustainable and inclusive growth as priorities for the 2013 budget.
in writing. − this report puts at the heart of its priorities for the 2013 budget the miraculous promotion of growth and employment, in line with the so-called europe 2020 strategy, the results of which are in sight: low economic growth rates, worsening unemployment to historic levels, precarious and low-paid work, increased poverty and consequent social exclusion. the community budget has repeatedly failed to respond to the need for economic and social cohesion, that is to say, it has not put people and the serious problems they face at the centre of its concerns, much less respond to the real economic and social disaster we are facing. this report says otherwise. it says the eu budget has had a genuine economic impact and has successfully complemented member states' recovery policies so far. it would be difficult to be more out of touch with reality. it also says that the eu budget must not be the victim of failed policies at national level. it would be difficult to be more faithful to the rhetoric of the german directory. it also says that savings should be made on those headings which show problems in their implementation. dangerously eluding the causes of under-performance of many items. among many other negative aspects, such as those relating to the deepening of the single market. that is reason enough for us to vote against.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution of 4 july 2012 setting out the terms of reference for the trilogue on the draft budget for the financial year 2013.
in writing. − the mandate for this trilogue contains an assessment of the draft budget adopted by the commission on 25 april, and sets out the european parliament's positions for the tripartite dialogue scheduled for 9 july 2012 and for the next negotiations on the eu budget from 2013 onwards. the trilogue focuses mainly on supporting competitiveness, growth and employment, especially for smes and youth, in the 2013 budget. the following points are considered by the rapporteur to be of particular interest for the trilogue: to provide for a sufficient level of payment appropriations to cover the growing needs of ongoing projects; to address the issue of outstanding commitments (ral); to provide for an amending budget for 2012 in order to cover current and past payment needs and to avoid the transfer of payments from 2012 to 2013 as happened in the current year; to provide for a sufficient level of commitment appropriations europe more in crisis; to hold an interinstitutional meeting on payments; to provide for iter funding in the 2013 budget; and to check the discrepancy between the financial programming and the 2013 op in relation to heading 4. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with this approach.
in writing. − the 2013 budget estimates eur 150 931,7 million in commitment appropriations, up 2% compared to the 2012 budget, and eur 137 924,4 million in payment appropriations, up 6,8% compared to the 2012 budget. on 14 march 2012, the european parliament defined economic growth and job creation as priority issues and that they should be in line with the implementation of the flagship initiatives and objectives enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy. i agree with this report setting the budget for 2013 because it reinforces the activities of the 7th framework programme for research and innovation, the competitiveness and innovation programme and the progress programme, thus providing decisive support to businesses in their efforts to become more competitive on a global scale. however, i would like to deplore the reduction in the financial contribution to the flagship initiative 'youth on the move', demonstrating that the european commission does not properly value the various programmes available to the younger generations.
in writing. - i agree, because this report stresses the need for a holistic approach to the fight for animal welfare. the necessary link between animal health and public health must therefore be made, the progress made in the measures now proposed must be measured, legislation on animals in zoos must be strengthened, and attention must be paid to quality criteria for imported animals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal from the committee on agriculture and rural development on the eu strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015. i believe that animal welfare is a fundamental pillar of sustainable development and is essential to protecting animal health as well as human health. the proposal is essential to increase productivity and competitiveness in the primary sector. the new law lays down the general conditions for the creation of a common and clear european network for the joint coordination of animal welfare. this will help to increase competitiveness both in the domestic market and in trade with third countries, and to increase product quality and safety.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals' for including measures setting out the conditions for a european animal welfare network, notably through the implementation of the link between animal health and public health, enforcement of legislation on zoo animals, and new labelling rules to prevent abuse and inform consumers about farming methods that ensure a level playing field for eu farmers.
in writing. − the welfare of animals, the conditions under which they are treated, fed and transported, deserves the fullest attention of european union policies. there is a direct link between animal health and human health and it is therefore imperative that the former receive all health and welfare care so that this is reflected in the health of the food of every european. it is essential that, at european policy level, agriculture and trade are firmly linked so that the same standards of animal health care are required for animals from the countries from which we import the meat we consume in the eu.
in writing. − this report, by marit paulsen, focuses on the european union (eu) strategy for the protection and welfare of animals for the period 2012-2015. although our primary concern is people, we cannot forget how animals are treated, whether they are domesticated, wild or stray. we have all been surprised in person, through the media or the internet, by shocking images of animal treatment. even animals destined for slaughter should be treated with the least possible suffering, as the ancients used to say: spare the ox the sight of the sickle! it is therefore necessary to update the legislation which has been in force for more than 40 years, simplifying it on the one hand but providing new rules which meet the requirements of modern society and in line with the positions advocated by the world organisation for animal health (oie). i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is still a lot to be done in the protection and welfare of animals, such as the limitation of the duration of transport to slaughterhouses, death by stunning, transport conditions, the protection of certain species, the prohibition of products from cloning and its derivatives, etc.
in writing. − the maintenance of a high level of animal welfare is important not only for the protection of animal health but also for ensuring the protection of people, in particular their health. this report takes important steps in this area, taking a fundamentally correct approach to this problem. we agree that the approach to animal welfare should be based on sound scientific evidence and the best available scientific knowledge. we regret, however, that the amendments proposed by our group, in particular those relating to the refusal to place on the market cloned animal products or their offspring, which are not covered in this report, have not been incorporated into the final report. the same applies to the proposals concerning certain animal transport rules. we also regret the considerations concerning the single market, to whose rules, in the rapporteur's view, animal welfare will also have to be subjected.
in writing. - it is important that the european union has a strategy for the protection and welfare of animals and that is why i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − this report calls for a new european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015 as a high level of animal welfare is an integral part of sustainable development and is important to protect animal and public health, as well as the productivity and competitiveness of the livestock sector in europe. however, the complex european and national animal welfare standards, together with the lack of related information, generate legal uncertainty, while the lack of compliance and 'legal frameworks' distorts competition. the commission communication com ((2012) 0006) on the strategy for the protection and welfare of animals (2012-2015) is therefore to be welcomed, as it advocates a new approach to animal welfare, based on scientific evidence and proven experience gained in recent years, where legislation is easy to understand and follow. for example, in this respect, greater attention should be paid to animal welfare in eu consumer policy, in the framework research programmes and in the cap. however, it is essential to establish an appropriate budget for the listed measures. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals has good points such as: providing concrete, rigorous and understandable training, information and guidance that is easily accessible to those who deal with animals on a daily basis. the level of information to be adapted and made available at regional and local level is also important. a coordinated european network of animal welfare centres can play a key role in this area. the inclusion of the european framework law on animal welfare in the strategy is welcomed, provided that such a legal framework does not dilute existing national regulations and that the principle of subsidiarity is carefully considered. for these reasons i voted in favour.
in writing. − the european commission has launched a communication entitled 'european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals 2012-2015' which aims to reinforce some of the actions already developed and to establish a legislative framework that addresses some animal problems in a different and holistic way. i would like to point out that over the last 14 years the european union has devoted some eur 70 million per year to animal welfare, 71% of which has been granted to farmers in the form of animal welfare payments under the european agricultural fund for rural development. i agree with this report because there is a need to give strong support to farmers who respect animal husbandry standards and good practice and who invest in better farm facilities. i also believe that it is important to establish appropriate regulations which help to improve animal welfare, protect animal and public health, and the productivity and competitiveness of the livestock sector in europe.
in writing. - i support this report because it calls on the commission to move forward with a necessary legal framework, in particular one on the protection of companion and stray animals, which includes important matters such as the identification and registration of animals, strategies for the management of stray animals, including vaccination and sterilisation programmes, measures to promote the responsibility of owners, prohibition of unlicensed kennels and shelters, prohibition of the slaughter of stray animals without medical indications, information and educational programmes in schools on animal welfare, severe sanctions to be imposed on any member state that does not comply with the rules.
in writing. − the pet population in the eu is estimated at over 100 million, many of whom are victims of ill-treatment and cruelty in many member states. there is no legislation in the eu to protect these animals. in addition, the european convention for the protection of pet animals has not been signed by many member states. the authors of this motion for a resolution therefore call on the european union and the member states to ratify the convention and to transpose it into their legal systems, taking account of the various petitions submitted, in particular, in the countries of southern and eastern europe. the commission is also asked to move forward with a legal framework for the protection of these animals, including rules on the identification and registration of animals, strategies for the management of stray animals, the accountability of owners, the prohibition of illegal kennels, the prohibition of the slaughter of animals without medical indication and awareness-raising programmes in schools, and the imposition of sanctions on member states which do not comply with these rules. i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe that these measures will contribute to the protection of animals and european citizens.
in writing. − the pet population in the eu is estimated at over 100 million, many of whom are victims of ill-treatment and cruelty in many member states. there is no legislation in the eu to protect these animals. in addition, the european convention for the protection of pet animals has not been signed by many member states. the authors of this motion for a resolution therefore call on the european union and the member states to ratify the convention and to transpose it into their legal systems, taking account of the various petitions submitted, in particular, in the countries of southern and eastern europe. the commission is also asked to move forward with a legal framework for the protection of these animals, including rules on the identification and registration of animals, strategies for the management of stray animals, the accountability of owners, the prohibition of illegal kennels, the prohibition of the slaughter of animals without medical indication and awareness-raising programmes in schools, and the imposition of sanctions on member states which do not comply with these rules. i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe that these measures will contribute to the protection of animals and european citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because i consider it positive that there is a legal framework at european level which protects the welfare of companion and stray animals and defends their rights, in particular through rules for the identification and registration of animals, a ban on the killing of stray animals without medical indication, information and educational programmes in schools on animal welfare, measures to promote the responsibility of owners, and severe sanctions to be imposed on any member state which does not comply with the rules.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution (doc. a 2­018/86) by mr pimenta, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work (com (86) 0403 final - syn 184); the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of animals in the event of a serious accident or serious injury. despite the existing rules in many member states, there is still room for improvement, particularly in the identification and registration of animals in order to reduce the number of stray animals; in the management of these animals in vaccination, sterilisation and slaughter programmes; in information programmes and the application of sanctions to those who abandon an animal. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because it contributes to improving public health and animal welfare and protection.
in writing. - this resolution is the result of an initiative by the committee on petitions and is based on a petition by citizens on the protection of companion and stray animals. the resolution welcomes a set of concerns and recommendations expressed by the petitioners, which we support, calling on the european union and the member states to ratify the european convention for the protection of pet animals and to transpose its provisions into national legal systems. it also called on the commission to move forward with a legal framework for the protection of companion and stray animals, including: rules for the identification and registration of animals; strategies for the management of stray animals, including vaccination and sterilisation programmes; measures to promote the responsibility of owners; a ban on unlicensed kennels and shelters; a ban on the killing of stray animals without medical indication; information and education programmes in schools on animal welfare. we generally agree with these topics, which are undoubtedly directions to be taken in the direction of animal protection. it is for the member states to incorporate these principles into their national legislation, in accordance with their specificities and concrete situation in this field, taking into account the diversity of situations existing, in order to pursue the stated protection objectives more effectively.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution 'on the creation of an eu legal framework for the protection of pet animals and stray animals' because i believe that the measures set out in it will contribute to the protection of animals and european citizens.
in writing. − the pet population in the eu is estimated at over 100 million, many of whom are victims of ill-treatment and cruelty in many member states. in addition to the lack of a legal framework for the protection of these animals, the european convention for the protection of pet animals has not been signed by many member states. the european union and its member states are therefore called upon to ratify the convention, in view of the various petitions submitted, in particular by countries in southern and eastern europe. the commission is therefore asked to move forward with a legal framework for the protection of these animals, including rules on the identification and registration of animals, strategies for the management of stray animals, the accountability of owners, the prohibition of illegal kennels, the prohibition of the slaughter of animals without medical indication and awareness-raising programmes in schools, as well as the imposition of sanctions on member states which do not comply with these rules. i voted in favour.
in writing. − there is no legislation in the eu for the protection of pets. furthermore, the european convention for the protection of pet animals has not been signed by many member states. the european union and its member states are called upon to ratify the convention, taking into account the various petitions submitted, in particular, by the countries of southern and eastern europe. the commission is also asked to move forward with a legal framework for the protection of these animals, including rules on the identification and registration of animals, strategies for the management of stray animals, the holding of owners accountable and the imposition of sanctions on member states that do not comply with these rules. i therefore voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution.
in writing. - i support the motion for a resolution, but i stress point 9 which states that much of the legislative work that will allow a global, structural and comprehensive response to the crisis to be put forward remains to be done and i therefore agree that the commission should be asked to present, by september 2012, a package of legislative proposals, in accordance with the community method, based on the four constituent elements.
in writing. - i have approved the resolution, as i expressly welcome the european council's decision. i would like to highlight a number of measures which i consider to be positively positive, such as the pact for growth and jobs, which should serve the strategy to promote jobs and sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, with actions at national and european level, and a package of eur 120 billion has been made available to promote investment and growth in europe. the creation of a banking union and a common supervisory system, which aims to break the vicious circle between banks and public debt, and the deepening of emu. i regret that on some equally important points they fell a little short of expectations and that important details were apparently unclear or left for later decisions. greater democratic accountability is needed and any new initiative should take as its starting point the community method, involving all the union's institutions.
in writing. - this was the european council par excellence, devoted to finding solutions to the economic and financial crisis which has struck the union. it sought to adopt and combine a whole range of short, medium and long-term measures to stabilise financial markets, stimulate employment and sustainable growth and strengthen emu. i would like to highlight a number of measures which i consider to be positively positive, such as the pact for growth and jobs, which should serve the strategy to promote jobs and sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, with actions at national and european level, and a package of eur 120 billion has been made available to promote investment and growth in europe. the creation of a banking union and a common supervisory system, which aims to break the vicious circle between banks and public debt, and the deepening of emu. i regret that on some equally important points they fell a little short of expectations and that important details were apparently unclear or left for later decisions. greater democratic accountability is needed and any new initiative should take as its starting point the community method, involving all the union's institutions.
in writing. − the latest european council, held last week, had a major impact on markets as it advanced concrete proposals for the future of the union that ensure the appropriate mechanisms for stabilising the euro, show a renewed will to deepen economic governance and indicate that in the future we are moving towards the much needed banking union. all these are positive signs that the eu is committed to finding solutions to the sovereign debt crisis and the banking sector crisis, and to strengthening solidarity and economic, budgetary and financial integration. as i have always said, i do not believe in economic growth without proper accounts and that is why it is so important that portugal continues its enormous effort of fiscal consolidation so that we can experience times of sustainable growth as soon as possible.
in writing. − the european council of 28 and 29 june, held in an atmosphere of great concern about the economic and financial crisis, took some important steps to combat the euro crisis, including not only fiscal consolidation but also economic growth, ending the vicious circle between banks and the sovereign debts of the member states by reducing the interest rate on them. i would like to welcome the adoption of the pact for growth and jobs, in particular the mobilisation of €120 billion to stimulate investment, growth and jobs. this council took important steps towards economic recovery and brought new institutional and political vitality towards a stronger and more economically and monetarily united european union. it also constituted an important step towards the achievement of a fully-fledged banking union across the eu. because i consider that this was a positive council with a direct impact on economic growth, employment for young people and support for small and mediumsized enterprises, i voted against this motion for a resolution tabled under rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure.
in writing. − this european council was another reaffirmation of the objectives of economic governance, the euro plus pact, strategy 2020 and the stability and growth pact. it was the reaffirmation of the same policies that led to the present dramatic social situation and which are deepening it through the increase in unemployment, the decrease in wages, the retreat of the welfare state and the end of public services. the budgetary and fiscal pact and the european stability mechanism constitute an unacceptable attack on the sovereignty of countries which are no longer able to decide sovereignly in budgetary matters, thus paving the way for the establishment of colonial-type relations in the eu, where big capital and the big powers, such as germany, are in charge. the inevitable and usual statements of those who always welcome the results of these summits, once again, are there. but they cannot hide the fact that summits are taking place one after another (three dozen summits have already been held under the spectre of the euro crisis) at the same time as the crisis is spreading and deepening. we have of course voted against a resolution which welcomes these instruments and policies, which calls on the commission to submit legislative proposals which will lead to another declaration of war on the workers and peoples as a result of this european council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the european council of 28 and 29 june 2012 by majority agreement.
in writing. - the importance of the agreement reached at the last european council summit on important and substantial measures to break the vicious circle between banks and sovereign debt and to reduce the spreads between euro area sovereign debt interest rates should be stressed. the commission is therefore proposing an integrated financial framework to ensure financial stability, in particular in the euro area, and to minimise the costs for european citizens of bank failures. in view of the challenges facing europe, this report is welcome, as it presupposes a more balanced, economically efficient and socially just agenda against the crisis.
in writing. − european leaders have taken an important set of decisions to promote greater economic strength and sustained growth in europe. in the context of the sovereign debt crisis and increasingly pronounced financial sector fragility in several european countries, there is a need to continue to control existing macroeconomic imbalances and to leverage growth and job creation. i congratulate the council on the decisions it has taken, particularly on the definition of some new conditions for the european financial stabilisation funds, namely the possibility of buying public debt directly on secondary markets, replacing the ecb in its short-term operations and carrying out direct recapitalisation operations for banks. i also welcome the adoption of the growth pact, which sets out a roadmap for sustainable, smart and inclusive growth, comprising actions to be developed at national and european level in the context of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. - i approve the report, endorsing the econ commission's recommendations, in that all citizens should have access to the normal transactions necessary for daily life, irrespective of factors such as financial situation, employment situation, credit history or place of residence in the union.
in writing. − access to basic banking services is one of the prerequisites for consumers to benefit from the internal market, in particular as regards freedom of movement, purchase of goods and services and access to the advantages of electronic commerce, among other facilities. in this regard, parliament has drawn up this own-initiative report, in which it makes recommendations to the commission and asks it to assess the current situation in the member states as regards access to basic banking services and to propose a directive on this subject by january 2013. access to basic paid services is also key to social inclusion in terms of access to employment, health care and housing. about 7% of the european population, 30 million people, do not have access to a bank account. it is essential that the union takes concrete measures to change this situation and contribute to the end of this form of social exclusion. i therefore share the view that the present situation may be an obstacle to the full social integration of european citizens, and i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i fully support this resolution. i think that every european citizen should have access to a basic bank account, either for free or for a small amount of money. in addition, factors such as income level, employment, credit history, or individual insolvency status in relation to turnover should not be considered for the opening of a basic payment account. access should therefore in no case be subject to the purchase of other products or services, such as insurance or an additional account.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'access to basic banking services' as it aims to establish the right for all eu consumers to open and operate a basic payment account, allowing anyone to make payments and transactions, including receiving wages or allowances, paying bills and taxes and purchasing goods and services.
in writing. - there are currently about 30 million people in europe, 7% of the adult population, who do not have a bank account, which is contrary to a social market economy. this is despite the fact that the eu supports banks with large financial packages, as recently happened with the spanish banks. the european union has always shown great concern for the most disadvantaged, not only by supporting the millennium development goals (mdgs), but also by including ambitious social objectives in its europe 2020 strategy, as reflected in the inclusive growth vector: increasing labour force participation, skills acquisition and fighting poverty. i voted in favour of this report by mr klute, which contains recommendations to the commission on access to basic banking services, because it is urgent to put an end to practices which exclude citizens. our banking system is inclusive for those with money but exclusive for those with little, and this financial exclusion turns into social exclusion. everyone should have the right to open a bank account free of charge or at a reasonable price. the right to equal treatment is at stake.
in writing. - a large number of people, because of their low incomes and the discretionary criteria of banking institutions, are in practice excluded from the use of bank accounts and multi-bank cards. this inhibits the use of the card for a wide range of everyday uses and is also a factor of social exclusion and stigmatisation. it is therefore entirely justified to adopt measures to facilitate access to a basic bank account and a debit card for their handling, through state intervention in creating conditions that guarantee citizens the possibility of using the so-called minimum banking services. this report seeks to take some positive steps in that direction, which we acknowledge and value. however, in view of the concrete situation at present, the high profits of the banking sector - in which the multiplicity of fees and commissions charged to depositors, especially those with the lowest resources, is assuming an increasing relative weight - it would have been important for the report to go further. unfortunately, its original purpose has been undermined by provisions which continue to allow banks to act at their discretion, to the benefit of their profits and to the detriment of depositors' interests.
in writing. - by broadly agreeing with the recommendations to the commission on access to basic banking services contained in this resolution, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. − access to basic banking services is one of the prerequisites for consumers to benefit from the internal market, in particular as regards freedom of movement, purchase of goods and services and access to the advantages of electronic commerce, among other facilities. in this regard, parliament has drawn up this own-initiative report, in which it makes recommendations to the commission and asks it to assess the current situation in the member states as regards access to basic banking services and to draw up a proposal for a directive on this subject by january 2013. access to basic paid services is also key to social inclusion in terms of access to employment, health care and housing. considering that some 7% of the european population (30 million people) do not have access to a bank account and that many of these people have been deprived of access to this service, it would be essential for the eu to take concrete measures to change this situation and contribute to the end of this form of social exclusion. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. - article 225 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that 'the european parliament may request the commission to submit to it any appropriate proposals on any matter which it considers to require the drawing up of acts of the union for the purpose of implementing the treaties'. i believe that the proper functioning of the internal market and the development of the social and market economy is directly linked to the provision of universal and quality banking services. i agree with this report that all european citizens should have access to basic banking services, thus helping to solve the problem of 7% of the adult population, some 30 million people, who currently have no such service.
ladies and gentlemen, listening to the speeches, with the exception of two from the far right, it seems that we are all in agreement. we all agree that freedom of movement is one of the major achievements of the european union. we all agree that it needs to be strengthened. we all agree that an area without border controls is essential to the internal market and that there are benefits for member states and citizens. we all agree on the need to strengthen the governance of schengen and we all agree that the current schengen evaluation system is inadequate and that we need a system that ensures a transparent, effective and coherent application of schengen. so why do we have the need to bring concrete cases here? and commissioner malmström said that in addition to those which parliament raised in the oral question, she is currently investigating some 11 different cases. there are 11 cases which prove that there are systematic violations of the schengen free movement. there are 11 cases which prove that the european institutions have not been able to stop them. there are 11 cases which prove that the present schengen evaluation system is not working and that is the essential point. the president of the council said that it was only for legal reasons. that's not true! the cypriot presidency is just beginning to try to make this point before the european parliament, for political reasons, the council wants to continue to cover up the violation of the schengen agreement, which is what it has systematically done with its peer-to-peer evaluation system. we need a real evaluation system, a community system headed by the european commission and subject to co-decision voting between the council and parliament. we are therefore in favour of schengen, we are in favour of free movement, we are in favour of what is one of the greatest guarantees and one of the greatest successes of the european construction.
mr president, i would first of all like to welcome the efforts we are making to reform the court of justice, the general court and the civil service tribunal to make them more effective. i would particularly like to welcome the creation of the post of vice-president, the change in the rules governing the composition of the grand chamber and the possibility now opened up of having recourse to temporary or interim judges in the event of impediment. but i must say that we should have seized, and this is a very important aspect, this opportunity to reform the statute of the court to also increase its democratic legitimacy. in the community legal system, in the european legal system, the courts have a function of practically setting precedents. it's a function of the common law. they are the builders of european law. and that is why we must be concerned about its democratic legitimacy. i would point out that it would be very important to recognize the possibility of individual votes, of votes that have been lost. it is good to mention that a study is being carried out in this respect, but it is a pity that this proposal, which i made in committee, has not been accepted, as is the case with the supreme courts and constitutional courts of many of the states of the union, if it is accepted that there should be transparency in the voting of the judges of the court of justice.
the elections in egypt are a good thing, but we must not be fooled, and these presidential elections do not in any way close the transition process that is taking place in egypt. it has been well said that the dissolution of parliament, days before the presidential elections, puts several risks on the table and, in this case, the power that is concentrated in the supreme council of the armed forces is at least exaggerated, it has legislative power, they have reduced the power of the president and, moreover, they also have in their hands the definition of the changes in the constitution. all this raises some concerns for us, and it should raise some concerns for us, because the egyptians are in danger of becoming hostages of military power and of a return to the past, without a fundamental element, which is the democratically elected parliament. it's not up to us to make the change in egypt. it's up to the egyptians. but i think we europeans will have to support all the changes that propose the restoration of what is democratic legitimacy and a democratically elected parliament.
the rio summit was marred by the same blockages and contradictions as we have seen in other summits. the deepest of these contradictions has not always been the most visible, but it is certainly the most decisive. the dominant economic and social system on a world scale is proving incapable of satisfying the most basic needs of millions upon millions of human beings, and yet it is consuming and degrading the planet's resources at a rate far in excess of their natural regenerative capacity. breaks are inevitable. in view of this, some may feel that it is time to pull a rabbit out of its hat. they called it the green economy. the vagueness and ambiguity of the concept has served all opportunism, even that of those who say they want to save the environment without interfering with the system that degrades and threatens it, who say they want to combat hunger and other social ills without going to their root causes, a genuinely sustainable development based on a sustainable relationship between man and nature will not be possible without questioning the laws and dogmas of capitalism, however much they want to paint it green. we must break with a growth which sacrifices natural resources and labour, the creative and transformative energy of the human being, to the growing accumulation of profit, to the private appropriation of the social wealth produced. we must safeguard natural resources, but also their democratic use, defend local production by reducing the breadth of production and consumption cycles, stop the liberalisation of world trade, which is an incentive to increase energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions, despite their serious economic and social consequences, protect natural terrestrial and marine ecosystems, recover degraded ecosystems by enhancing their role in regulating the carbon cycle, reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but through a regulatory approach and not through mechanisms that leave these objectives to the taste of market sentiment. i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that the fight for a healthy planet is inseparably linked to the fight for a fairer world, for the appreciation of those who work and for a society which raises the principles of democracy above the laws of the so-called market economy.
the crisis is the compass of the times, but the rio+20 summit managed to ignore it completely. worse than that, the solutions that have come out of it are going to overcome the ecological crisis through financialization of the environment, more carbon trading, free emission bonuses and now also green property assets. commissioner potočnik spoke here with optimism about the inclusive green economy. but how is this possible when this transition would require an investment of 2% of world gdp in 10 key sectors and we know that the un environment programme proposes the financial sector as a solution to this? it's the recipe for disaster! in response to the ecological crisis caused by the greed of the market, which turns resources into profit for the few and scarcity for the many, more market is invented. public policies are replaced by speculative mechanisms, the common interest for private benefit. there is no climate, environmental and social solution without attacking the root of the problem, this economic system that condemns millions to poverty and that is ravaging the planet. after big finance has destroyed the global economy, the planet is handed over to it. you don't put out a fire with gasoline and you don't save the planet by selling it at retail.
the disappointing results of the conference were summed up well by françois hollande when he said that they fell short of our responsibilities and our expectations. it is true that a final document was adopted. but the future we want contains little new and does not set new binding international targets. the adoption of a framework programme for the next ten years means that the current problems will be postponed for another decade, that global warming, desertification and the destruction of some ecosystems will not be tackled. the commissioner spoke of progress in women's rights, but even in this area there has been backsliding. the substitution of reproductive rights for reproductive health is an unacceptable concession to the vatican, and has been criticised by several decision-makers such as hillary clinton and the former prime minister of norway. policy makers have lacked the courage and ambition to leave our children a habitable earth.
the proposal to transfer control of vessels and their catches from flag states to charter states inevitably leads to serious problems because of the insufficient or even non-existent control capacity of the latter over their fishing fleet. in the particular case of high seas fisheries where fleet and catch control is even more complex and demanding, that proposal could create conditions for a generalised situation of non-compliance. in this context, it should also be stressed that some of the species covered by this proposal are oceanic migrants and therefore tend to be caught in deep-sea fisheries. in view of the above and in order to avoid an unacceptable worsening of illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing, especially on the high seas, the commission must strongly oppose this proposal, as we do here, with a consensus that extends from the right to the left of our house.
in writing. - i approve this report because it has been observed for several years that the number of cases closed by the general court is less than the number of cases brought, with the consequence that the number of cases pending is constantly increasing. it is therefore urgent to make the european court of justice more efficient and functional, since it is mainly european citizens and businesses who are penalized. the court of justice therefore considers that an increase in the number of judges by at least 12 is necessary, which will lead to an increase in the number of judges of the general court to 39. however, although there is an agreement to increase the number of judges in the general court, a method for their appointment has not yet been established and it is therefore necessary to do so.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which increases the number of judges from 27 to 39. the increase in pending cases has led the court of justice to express its need to increase the number of judges. the current workload does not allow judges to do their job.
in writing. − as the court of justice is to be partly renewed on 7 october 2012, several amendments to the statute of the court of justice and its annex i have been proposed, which concern, to varying degrees, the three courts which currently constitute the cjeu, namely the court of justice, the general court and the civil service tribunal. the european union has acquired more powers, in particular after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which implies an extension of the powers of the court of justice, to which is added the fact that the number of member states is much higher, leading to an overburden on the cjeu. the aim of these proposals is to improve the efficiency of the ecj, not only in terms of the efficiency of its work, but also in terms of reducing delays in pending cases, ensuring legal certainty and general confidence in the european judicial system. i support the compromise reached, although i regret that no agreement could be reached on the necessary increase in the number of judges at the general court, which would significantly contribute to speeding up the procedures and countering the current trend of the number of cases decided by the court being less than the number of cases brought.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union and its annex' because i considered that the amendments proposed by the court of justice of the european union to its draft statute and its annex were intended to facilitate the more efficient functioning of both the court of justice and the general court, in particular by creating the office of vice-president, who will take part, like the president, in the judgment of all cases referred to the grand chamber, thus ensuring the consistency of the case-law of the court of justice.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to adapt the statute of the court of justice in order to improve its functioning and to improve the division of labour between judges. the amendments include an increase in the number of judges and the creation of the post of vice-president. despite the budgetary impact of these proposals, the granting of effective judicial protection, in particular by means of judicial decisions rendered within an acceptable time limit, is an essential imperative and, on the other hand, the possible economic impacts of ineffective justice should not be disregarded, even in a situation of budgetary constraints.
in writing. − the court of justice of the european union (cjeu), based in luxembourg, is the supreme court of the european union (eu) and has jurisdiction over interpretative matters relating to european law. increased awareness of their rights by citizens and the enlargement of the european union has led to an unusual increase in the number of cases pending. the court of justice's powers have also been extended following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and the number of cases and judgments handed down has increased. the report by alexandra thein is on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union and its annex in order to make the court of justice more efficient, since justice is denied when it is delayed. although i regret that it was not possible to increase the number of judges, i voted in favour of this proposal for the internal reorganisation of the court of justice, as the creation of a vice-president and the existence of temporary judges will not only improve the work of the court but will also have a major impact on the quality of life of citizens.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposed amendments to the statute of the court of justice of the eu. the proposal, which was made by the court itself, includes the creation of the post of vice-president of the court of justice and the adaptation of the rules on the composition of the grand chamber. the reasoning for this proposal is based on the observation of a practical problem: the president of the court and the presidents of the chambers of five judges are currently very busy, and it is therefore proposed to increase the number of judges among other measures to meet this constraint. for several years now, the number of cases decided by the general court has been lower than the number of cases brought, with the consequence that the number of cases pending has been steadily increasing. the report is essentially focused on technical aspects, so there are political considerations which are inevitable. the situation of the court of justice cannot be dissociated from the development of the integration process itself and the associated growing advance on the sovereignty of states and their institutions, also in the area of justice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union and its annex i, because i agree with it.
in writing. − the court of justice of the eu has requested an amendment to its statute, designed to make its work more efficient and faster, due to the sharp increase in cases. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider it important to create a new body (the vice-president), to increase the number of judges in the grand chamber and to increase the number of judges in the general court.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the court of justice has tabled a draft regulation which will allow the appointment of temporary judges to the civil service tribunal of the european union. the civil service tribunal shall consist of seven judges. consequently, its functioning may be seriously affected if one of its members is prevented from performing his duties for a prolonged period on account of ill health, without, however, being in a state of invalidity within the meaning of article 10 of regulation no 422/67/eec, no 5/67/euratom. i therefore agree with the proposals for rules governing the appointment of temporary judges, their rights and obligations, the conditions under which they exercise their functions and the circumstances in which they are terminated. i think that this measure complements the efficiency of this institution and at the same time guarantees the rights of its workers, since the temporary judges are appointed for a renewable term of four years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this regulation because i believe that the appointment of temporary judges, who will only exercise judicial functions, is the answer to ensuring the proper functioning of the eu civil service tribunal, which currently has only seven judges.
in writing. the court of justice of the european union is composed of seven judges. the temporary absence of one of these judges for health reasons could have a profound impact on the functioning of the court and contribute to delays in pending cases. this initiative thus introduces the possibility of associating temporary judges with the specialised courts. it is envisaged that the council will draw up a list of three persons who are fit to sit as judges of the civil service tribunal and who may be called upon to act as judges acting in their capacity whenever it is necessary to replace a judge who is prevented from acting for health reasons for at least three months. these temporary judges shall be appointed for a term of four years (renewable) and shall exercise the prerogatives of the permanent judges in dealing with the cases for which they have been appointed, that is to say, they shall have strictly judicial functions but shall not be able to take part in decisions concerning the administration of the court or in the election of the president or presidents of the chambers. i have therefore supported this regulation because i believe that it seems to be the most logical solution to deal with situations which may eventually constitute an obstacle to the pursuit of the judicial mission of the court.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'interim judges of the civil service tribunal of the european union' because i considered that the proposed amendments would make it possible to contribute to the more efficient functioning of the civil service tribunal, in particular by allowing the civil service tribunal to draw up a list of three temporary judges who may be called upon to replace permanent judges who are prevented from performing their duties for medical reasons.
in writing. − the court of justice has tabled a draft regulation which will allow the appointment of temporary judges to the european union civil service tribunal. the civil service tribunal shall consist of seven judges. consequently, its functioning may be seriously affected when one of its members is prevented from performing his duties for a prolonged period. rules were proposed governing the appointment of temporary judges, their rights and obligations, the conditions under which they perform their duties and the circumstances in which they cease to do so. this seems to be a balanced and sensible proposal, which serves to ensure the efficient functioning of the european union civil service tribunal.
in writing. − the european union civil service tribunal (eupst), set up on 2 december 2005 by the council of the european union, is composed of seven judges and hears disputes between the communities and their servants (article 236 of the ec treaty and article 152 of the eaec treaty). it is a specialised court and its decisions are subject to appeal to the court of first instance. in recent years, there has been a significant increase in the number of pending cases that need to be dealt with urgently. the current statute of the eupt does not allow for the replacement of a judge during temporary absences for health reasons, which implies a backlog of pending cases. to remedy this situation, it is proposed that temporary judges be appointed from among former judges of the court of justice of the european union for a renewable term of four years. although i regret that the 'vote of the day' was not included, i voted in favour of this proposal to amend the statute of the feutc, as the creation of a vice-president and the possibility of replacing a judge absent on grounds of illness will not only improve the work of the court but also contribute to improving the quality of life of citizens.
in writing. − this report concerns a draft regulation which will allow the appointment of temporary judges to the european union civil service tribunal, and lays down their rights and obligations, as well as the conditions under which they perform their duties and the circumstances in which they are terminated. the civil service tribunal may decide to appoint an acting judge whenever it finds that a judge is or will be prevented from sitting on the case on grounds of ill-health and that such a hindrance will or may be expected to last for at least three months. the rapporteur considers that the court of justice's proposal is a sensible solution to a specific problem which could be disruptive to the functioning of the civil service tribunal. it also added that the proposed amendments were purely technical and replicated those put forward by the commission in its opinion. however, we do not dissociate these issues from the evolution of the integration process itself, nor from the growing progress on the sovereignty of states and their institutions that is associated with it, also in the area of justice.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the draft regulation of the european parliament and of the council on temporary judges of the european union civil service tribunal.
in writing. - this report, which is purely technical, aims to make it possible to appoint temporary judges in the absence of one of the seven judges, so that the functioning of the court is not seriously affected. since it is intended to improve the functioning of the court, i shall vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − i support this report because the development of modern infrastructure is crucial to achieving the europe 2020 strategy's objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and reducing unemployment. investment needs in transport, energy and information and communication technology (ict) infrastructure are estimated at eur 1.5 billion for the period 2010-2020. while the private sector should finance most of these investments - the vast majority of which are profitable - the role of the public sector in europe will be crucial to achieving these objectives. the eu commission has proposed the connecting europe facility (cef) for the next financial framework to accelerate the development of infrastructure in the areas of transport, energy and ict networks, with particular emphasis on their strategic cross-border aspects. the european parliament has been strongly calling for the creation of this instrument, but i would point out that this document does not exclude any reference to or solution for the most remote regions, particularly the outermost regions. i would suggest that a specific initiative in this area be taken on the basis of posei.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that this text establishes a new financial instrument to support development in the context of the transeuropean transport and energy networks. however, i believe that this pilot phase should be developed in the future through increased financing and investment in infrastructure to create jobs and restore the competitiveness of the system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on community financial support for the transeuropean transport and energy networks, because it includes measures to stimulate private investment, in particular in the energy, transport and information sectors, through project bonds.
in writing. − the existence of modern and efficient infrastructure is important to achieve the europe 2020 objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, as well as to reduce unemployment through the completion of the internal market. investment needs in transport, energy and information and communication technology (ict) infrastructure are estimated at eur 1.5 billion for the period 2010-2020. although much of this investment is private, the truth is that a public component is still needed, here in the form of project bonds. these are a debt instrument issued by private project companies, supported by an eu/eib contribution, to make bonds safer and more attractive to capital market investors. this first step is essential to test how the project bond issue is received in the markets.
in writing. − the functioning of the european union's (eu) single market will only be able to unlock its full potential when europe is equipped with capable infrastructures. the report by göran färm deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 1639/2006/ec establishing a framework programme for competitiveness and innovation (2007-2013) and regulation (ec) no 680/2007 laying down general rules for the granting of community financial support in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks. in times of crisis, we must be imaginative and perform the miracle of the multiplication of the loaves. i therefore welcome this initiative which will leverage the limited public resources available for wealth and job creation through a mixed economy: eu, european investment bank and private. i voted in favour of this report and hope that the symbolic amount of eur 230 million made available for this pilot phase can be significantly increased in the next budgets in order to stimulate the economy and job creation in such an important area as transport and energy networks, where innovation and digital technologies are key.
in writing. - this proposal is based on a real need. in the context of large transfers of public funds to plug holes in the financial system, with the prospect of a prolongation of the restrictive financial policies for several years, with credit being scarce and the risk of default increasing, a number of major infrastructure projects, whose financial requirements are colossal, are now seriously compromised. but the logic behind these major projects is not to benefit the countries and their peoples - which would require, first of all, a break with the policies of plunder and exploitation that are in place. in fact, the only concern of this proposal is with the large projects, those involving mainly large german or french capital, which dominate these sectors - transport, energy, telecommunications. it is significant that investment in smaller scale infrastructure, which is of great importance because of the greater incorporation of national production it enables and the incentive it provides to smes, with the consequent creation of employment, is simply ignored. moreover, the proposal maintains all the dogmas associated with the existing policies budgetary control, deficit reduction, austerity. these long-term bonds are nothing more than a public investment to reduce private risk and thus increase private profit.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on a proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending decision no 1639/2006/ec establishing a framework programme for competitiveness and innovation (2007-2013) and regulation (ec) no 680/2007 laying down general rules for the granting of community financial support in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks, by agreeing to it.
in writing. the ec has presented the connecting europe facility (cef), a financing instrument for transport, energy and ict infrastructure, as vital for the development of the european economy, with particular attention to cross-border links. since investment needs are so great, it has simultaneously proposed a new project bonds instrument to encourage private sector financing, which would not normally invest in this type of project. project bonds are debt issued by private companies for a specific project, with the eu and eib safeguarding it, making it more attractive and secure. along with other innovative instruments, this pilot phase of project bonds can be combined with other public and/or private financing. the eu will contribute up to eur 230 million. i support this initiative and hope that at the end of the pilot phase in 2013, this instrument will be implemented as another opportunity for states to finance themselves, for the development of energy, transport and ict infrastructure.
in writing. − i approve this report as all available indicators point to a lack of payment appropriations in many areas of eu intervention this year, in particular because, once again, the level of payment appropriations approved by the budgetary authority for the financial year 2012 fell short of the level proposed by the commission (more than eur 3 billion below the commission's initial draft budget). in addition, the council decided unilaterally to reduce by more than two thirds the request for transfer of eur 485 million (dec 9/2012) for the research area, despite the urgent need for payment appropriations. as such, more than €338 million of payment appropriations remain in budget lines where they cannot be spent. since, on the expenditure side (eur 0.73 billion), the under-implementation is not due to absorption difficulties or mismanagement by the commission, but to the rules in force concerning the adjustment of the distribution of payments according to needs during the last weeks of the financial year, this amount should legitimately be repaid to the eu budget in the form of a carryover of unspent appropriations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on 'draft amending budget no 3/2012: surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2011 budget' because i considered it necessary to transfer the surplus of 730 million to payments in 2012, supporting projects in the areas of research and cohesion.
in writing. − on 16 april, the commission presented draft amending budget no 3/2012 concerning the surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011. the commission's draft proposed to enter a surplus of eur 1.49 billion in the 2012 budget, reducing the overall contribution of the member states to the eu budget by the same amount (recall that eur 4.54 billion of surplus was entered in the 2011 budget). i am also pleased to note that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the budgetary authority is able to meet its obligations.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by mrs francesca balzani, concerns draft amending budget no 3/2012 which enters in the 2012 budget the surplus resulting from the implementation of the budget for the year 2011, as referred to in article 15 (1) of the financial regulation: the balance of each financial year shall be entered in the budget of the following financial year as revenue or payment appropriations, depending on whether it is a surplus or a deficit. the draft amending budget is intended to enter in the 2012 budget an amount of eur 1 496 968 014, corresponding to the surplus for the financial year, which is the result of under-implementation of expenditure (eur 0.73 billion), positive differences resulting from the implementation of revenue (eur 0.67 billion) and positive exchange rate differences (eur 0.1 billion). i voted in favour of this draft budget and, while i understand that it is important and necessary to ensure the financing of the cooperation programme which is part of the 7th framework programme, i believe that all the remaining funds should be channelled into the payment appropriations heading in order to ensure the settlement of commitments made and not paid, in order to increase the liquidity of both the public and the business sectors.
in writing. - we have consistently denounced the eu budget's meagreness, particularly in the areas of cohesion policy and the so-called structural funds. we have long been pointing out the limitations of instruments that can create jobs with rights, promote fair development, support environmental protection and productive activity - industry, agriculture and fisheries. this report shows a surplus of some eur 1 497 million from the rules in force on adjusting the distribution of payments according to needs. the proposal provides that of this surplus amount, eur 768 million (51%) is to be deducted from the member states' contribution to the 2012 budget, eur 337 million (23%) is to be directed to the financing of the 7th framework programme and eur 390 million (26%) provides additional payment appropriations for cohesion policy. while agreeing to increase the appropriations for cohesion policy, we cannot fail to point out that more than half of this surplus is being returned, at a time when the eu is moving further and further away from the objectives of eliminating disparities between member states and between regions and when the effects of the crisis are worsening. this is yet another clear demonstration of the practical content of the european solidarity that is so much in demand.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 3/2012 of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iii commission.
in writing. − the commission presented draft amending budget no 3/2012 on the surplus resulting from the implementation of the 2011 budget and proposed to enter a surplus of eur 1.49 billion in the 2012 budget, reducing the overall contribution of the member states to the eu budget by the same amount. in addition, the council decided unilaterally to reduce by more than two thirds the request for transfer of eur 485 million to the research area, despite the urgent need for payment appropriations. the rapporteur therefore proposes to amend the council's position in order to ensure adequate financing of the cooperation programme which is an integral part of the 7th framework programme, taking into account the unmet needs identified by the commission and with a view to securing additional payment appropriations for cohesion policy to help cover the next payment requests in the light of member states' estimates up to the end of 2012, and to limit the level of cancellations of commitments at the end of 2013. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this motion for a resolution, considering that relations between the european union and the parties must be based on respect for human rights and democratic principles, and that these should guide its internal and external policies and constitute an essential element of the agreements. i consider that with regard to the blockade of the gaza strip and the humanitarian crisis in the area, in line with the numerous appeals of the international community, an immediate, permanent and unconditional opening of crossings should be provided to allow the flow of humanitarian aid, goods and people to and from gaza, as reiterated in the council conclusions of 14 may 2012. ending the conflict is a fundamental interest of the eu as well as of the parties themselves and of the region as a whole, and this can be achieved through a comprehensive peace agreement, based on the relevant un security council resolutions, the madrid principles, including the principle of land for peace, the roadmap, the agreements previously reached by the parties and the arab peace initiative.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the eu's policy on the west bank and east jerusalem, calling on both sides to resume talks on a two-state solution. the recent report of the eu mission in area c in the west bank and east jerusalem is alarming, revealing that the palestinian presence continues to be undermined by settlement expansion, administrative measures, planning regime, as well as other severe restrictions, such as the prolonged closure of numerous palestinian institutions.
in writing. - the conflict between israel and palestine has dragged on since 1967, when israel occupied the palestinian territories, and despite all the efforts of international organisations such as the un security council and the european union, among others, it has not come to an end. while recognising that this is a very sensitive situation and that it therefore requires a very balanced approach, it is urgent to put an end to the violence in the region which is causing so much human suffering and tragedy. political changes in the arab world are a boost to middle east peace, but the latest rocket attacks on gaza, the demolition of homes, the persecution of the poor bedouin community and the demolition of two schools by israel are clouding relations between the two states, undermining the climate of trust and making a peaceful solution more difficult. i voted against this motion for a resolution tabled by four members on behalf of the ecr group because i do not think that the measures proposed are fair and do not deal with the matter with the impartiality that such a sensitive issue deserves.
in writing. - the day-by-day growing importance and urgency of denouncing israel's repeated and criminal disregard for un resolutions, of demanding an end to the occupation of the settlements, the shameful separation wall, the killings, detentions and numerous humiliations inflicted on the palestinian people, and of fulfilling the inalienable right of the palestinian people to have a free, independent and sovereign state within the 1967 borders, with its capital in east jerusalem. when will the aggression and the inhumane blockade imposed on the people of the gaza strip, a clear violation of their fundamental rights and of international law itself, end? when will the eu condemn the deprivation of food, medicine, fuel and basic services to which these palestinians, many of them minors, are voting for by israel? when will the brutal aggression, the crimes, the policy of slow extermination perpetrated by israel against the palestinian people, which nothing can justify, end? despite the negative amendments tabled by the ppe, the resolution is, on the whole, pointing in the right direction, and we have therefore supported it. but we reaffirm the denunciation that in palestine there is an occupier and there is an occupied country, an aggressor and a victim. we cannot therefore accept that the oppressor and the oppressed, the exploiter and the exploited, should be confused.
in writing. − i voted in favour of, and therefore agree with, the european parliament resolution of 5 july 2012 on eu policy on the west bank and east jerusalem.
in writing. − the eu has reiterated its support for a solution based on the coexistence of two states, the state of israel with secure and recognised borders and an independent, democratic, continuous and viable state of palestine living side by side in peace and security. the eu has also expressed concern at developments on the ground, including the repeated attacks from gaza, the introduction of smuggled arms into the gaza strip, the acceleration of settlement construction, evictions and house demolitions in east jerusalem, as well as the deterioration of the living conditions of the palestinian population in area c of the west bank. i therefore welcome the council conclusions on the middle east peace process of 14 may 2012, including the conclusions on the west bank and east jerusalem, and the quartet statement on the middle east of 11 april 2012. i support the calls for cooperation between the parties to facilitate the economic and social development of area c of the west bank, and i reiterate the need to find a negotiated way to resolve the issue of the status of jerusalem as the future capital of both states.
i would like to begin by congratulating my fellow rapporteur, mrs lara comi, on the excellent work she has done on this report which is of vital importance for the future of europe. in a world and a society undergoing rapid change, europe needs a comprehensive, integrated, effective and up-to-date standardisation system. a system that ensures the proper functioning of the internal market, that improves the protection of consumers and their lives, but also protects the environment is essential. it is also very important to have more innovation and social inclusion and the interaction and communication of networks and systems, especially in the field of new information and communication technologies, as has already been stressed here. as professor monti noted in his report a new strategy for the single market, european standardisation is essential for the governance of the internal market, stressing the need for a review of the european standardisation process, which maintains the advantages of the current system and strikes the right balance between the european and national dimensions. in this sense, the report we are now discussing follows and defends these objectives, which are the right ones: to put an end to the slowness and fragmentation which exists and which causes companies to incur higher transaction costs and unit costs, to strengthen the participation of smes in standardisation activities, in particular at national level, and to facilitate their access to these standards, and on the other hand to strengthen the participation of those who represent the interests of society, such as consumers, environmentalists, workers, people with disabilities, while maintaining financial support for european organisations set up to represent the public interest. i would like to conclude by saying that the adoption of this report will help to relaunch the european project, to promote european innovation, and to strengthen the competitiveness of our companies.
food safety is a concern of european citizens which we must ensure. the information given to the consumer must be clear, objective and the result of a simple, non-bureaucratic process. the labelling of beef is of obvious importance and should prevent the proliferation of misinformation to consumers on sensitive issues such as breed, rearing and meat processing. the consumer information regulation must answer these questions. beef is a very sensitive product in the community market and is subject to pressure from third countries with lower requirements in terms of animal welfare and production systems. the same provisions must apply to imported products. i believe that the labelling system should be improved, but with concrete rules and a clear and uniform control system for all member states. i am also of the opinion that the directive should be binding on all member states, as it is now for poultrymeat and eggs.
ladies and gentlemen, madam vice-president reding: your predecessor, franco frattini, in this house in february 2007, said that, and i quote, 'security cannot be at any cost', end of quote. i cannot agree more, as i cannot agree less with what you said in your speech today, when you referred to the values of the rule of law, the presumption of innocence, the right to a fair trial before an independent tribunal. all that was denied to the detainees at guantanamo, which was promised to be closed but never actually opened. we have recalled the importance of international law and the need to defend human rights without compromise. in the report we adopted on 14 february 2007, following the committee i chaired, we assessed the facts, identified the behaviour that was to be condemned, pointed out the omissions and made more than 40 recommendations aimed at preventing the same events from happening again, or at least not as easily. and the question that we have to ask today is: what would happen if the same events were to happen again today? what steps did we actually take to ensure that history would be different? my impression is that, essentially, nothing has been done. i am sure that public opinion is more alert, that parliaments would be more involved than they have been in the past, that the judicial authorities in some member states would be more attentive and would react more quickly. but the majority of the european institutions and the governments of the member states have done nothing to implement our recommendations. i welcome the work of hélène flautre and the excellent report she has put before us. i agree with most of your recommendations and would like to stress that state secrecy can be an exceptional defence of democracies, but it cannot be a pretext for concealing arbitrariness and the violation of human rights. but i insist on the question: are we today better placed to assure our fellow citizens that the same cannot happen again, or at least that it cannot happen again with impunity? i think we have to do a rigorous job, in close collaboration with the national parliaments, of identifying what has been done with regard to each of the recommendations we have adopted. i am even prepared to accept that some of them may be difficult or controversial to implement, but i want to understand why they have been overwhelmingly ignored by member state governments and the union institutions until now.
the increasingly clear evidence of the existence of the illegal transport and detention of prisoners in european countries by the cia is a clear demonstration of the practical significance of the concepts of a policy of preventing terrorism which are so present in the nato dictionary and which led to the adoption of resolutions extending the so-called fight against terrorism through the support of its member countries to countries which were under the so-called terrorist threat. it is this concept of nato, the european union's strategic partner, which has legitimized the numerous human rights violations, the evidence of which is known and evidenced in mrs flautre's report. these partnerships within nato are totally geared to destroying the framework of dialogue and peaceful coexistence which has been consolidated through the creation of the united nations charter since 1945. we welcome the overall content of this report because it can help to clarify the imperialist policies of the united states of america and its illegal methods, whether through the cia or through nato. however, we believe that it is the role of the national institutions of the member states to investigate, assess evidence and judge the activities of political structures engaged in any illegal acts. as for us in portugal, we have done everything possible to open a political inquiry to establish the government's responsibility for the secret flights of the cia over our country. unfortunately, this process has been blocked by the national parties which form the majority in this parliament. the european parliament, the council and the commission can play an important role in the exchange of information leading to the clarification of facts, but always with due respect for the sovereignty of the states and their legal systems.
in september, year after year, many of us in this house raise our voices to speak about the fires in southern europe, the deaths of people, the loss of property, the destruction of forests and agricultural fields. the damage is hard to calculate. sometimes it is criminal hands and careless hands, but it is also high temperatures and worsening drought that create the conditions for fires, and are also the cause of them. in portugal, for example, 80% of the territory is in severe drought. the area burned in 2012 is already twice the average of the last ten years. the possibility of using the european civil protection mechanism is important to alleviate the disaster, but it is also urgent to strengthen existing community instruments and create others to minimise the occurrence of fires and control their spread and devastating effects by, firstly, promoting a forestry policy appropriate to the geographical and climatic diversity of europe, and, secondly, mechanisms for joining forces and means of fighting fires for rapid and massive action.
first greece, then portugal, turned into laboratories for troika policies: unprecedented austerity, brutal cuts in wages and pensions, tax increases and cuts in social benefits. the portuguese prime minister, the same one who in 2011 said that austerity cannot always focus on tax increases and income cuts, has just announced the reduction of the contribution of companies to social security, the increase of the same for workers and, with this, cuts at least one month of salary: slavery! in greece, the working week is increased to six days, reducing the rest between shifts to 11 hours: slavery! this recessive spiral, with no end in sight, not only does not take us out of the crisis but brings us closer to slavery, but in the mobilizations that are announced in portugal, greece and other parts of the world we will show that we refuse to be slaves.
the autonomous region of madeira was ravaged by a terrible wave of fires during the summer. the forest fires started in the western part of the island, in the calheta and ribeira brava municipalities, and quickly spread to other areas of the region, severely affecting the funchal council, as well as the municipalities of santa cruz, machico and porto moniz. in addition to consuming vast areas of forest, the fires have also destroyed dozens of homes, automobiles, farms and small businesses, which in the overwhelming majority of cases are the only means of livelihood for the affected families. more than 6 000 hectares of area have been burned as a result of fires in the region, representing about 40% of forest areas and about 60% of agricultural and urban areas. it is now urgent to take action and help the affected families, either at the level of posai, with the advance of direct payments, or in the context of rural development policy. solidarity assistance at european level is essential for the normalization of life in the villages of madeira.
article 2 of the lisbon treaty: the union is founded on pluralism, which the member states must respect. treaty of amsterdam: the capacity of the public television service must be maintained and increased. article 11 of the charter of fundamental rights: freedom and pluralism of the media are respected. european commission: the role of public television services is crucial to ensuring pluralism and the democratic process. and this same parliament, in 2008, having public stations alongside private ones is the basis of media pluralism throughout the european union because it is the guarantee of effective independence from political pressures and market forces. and i could go on! this is all that the portuguese government wants to throw out the window by ending the public television service in a process that is not very transparent and that was not voted for by a majority of portuguese people, but it is also all that we will prevent the government from doing. here in parliament, in the commission, in the court of justice of the union, in the council of europe. i shall be speaking to the european broadcasting union tomorrow, and next week to the high level group on media pluralism. i will say the same to everyone: there are laws, treaties and conventions which the portuguese state has signed and is obliged to respect. this is not the law of the jungle yet, this is not the law of the grass yet!
sixteen months after the application of the troika's recipe by the well-behaved, subservient and insensitive portuguese government, the expected result is in sight: the economic recession deepened, real unemployment reached 23.3% - the highest ever - and the number of companies filing for bankruptcy increased by 46.7% up to june compared to the same period last year. the alleged reason for the implementation of these measures will not materialize, the public debt has increased, not decreased, and the government has just increased the amount of social security contributions paid by workers and reduced that of companies. interesting concept of applying equality! the troika is successfully evaluating the assistance program. when portugal is totally destroyed and its society, its economy totally destroyed, it will surely be a complete success! the european commission and the ecb will be overjoyed! they can count on the steadfast struggle of the portuguese workers.
in writing. accelerating the transition to a low-carbon economy is an environmental imperative. the eu must maintain ambition and propose concrete measures by strengthening support for renewable energy and energy efficiency, promoting less polluting means of transport and offering consumers the choice of products with a smaller environmental footprint. in this context, it is important to discuss the gender imbalance in policy decision-making, which is related to the lower representation of women in the green economy, i.e. they are interlinked factors that require a holistic response. equal participation in green politics and economy is necessary to ensure that the interests and different needs of women and men are taken into account. it is well known, for example, that climate change does not affect men and women equally, rich and poor, developed and developing countries. this is also why the elimination of inequalities and the greater efficiency of the green economy are linked. in order to overcome this imbalance, member states need to adopt appropriate measures, including gender quotas. these measures aim to ensure that economic development is based on an equitable distribution of resources between individuals, between men and women, and between generations.
i also want to join in those comments made by colleagues on the rapporteur, linda mcavan, who has done an excellent job. we can now say that european patients are much safer with this new change in legislation and regulation and patient protection is indeed one of our priorities. i would like to make two points which have come to my mind during this debate. the first is that the economic crisis is causing a backlash in health care and public health. so, taking advantage of the fact that i am here, commissioner, i would also like to draw attention to the fact that we cannot allow the economic crisis to prevent the package of three legislation associated with medicines - including pharmacovigilance, falsified medicines and patient information - from being put on a waiting list, so as to use the crisis as an excuse for patients not having access to all the care they should have, to information and to quality medicines. we cannot, under any circumstances, accept that this should happen! and a second note, which came to me during this debate, because in 2010, when we voted the first reading of the directive, and now we are here in 2012 and i see the setback that has been and that was, in fact, a setback, we are talking about the quality of medicines. but today, in 2012, what was a rare case in 2010 is an epidemic, and in portugal, people are dying, and in greece, people are dying because of lack of access to medicines, and this is not a problem of the pharmaceutical laboratories, it's a problem of this laboratory here. i really, really wish that we could address these problems because medicine has represented advances in public health and health care, and we also can't ignore these problems that are essential to people's lives.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. - mr president, as rapporteur for the opinion of the femm committee, i consider it essential to ensure women's access to specialised training and to promote female employment in sectors related to energy efficiency, and it is also necessary to create measures for vulnerable social groups so that they can increase energy efficiency in their homes and reduce the costs of energy consumption. these measures should be designed with a gender dimension in mind, as the risk of poverty for women is higher than for men in almost all the countries of the european union and as regards the agreement at first reading, although it is better than the european commission's estimates, i believe that 15 or 17% energy efficiency by 2020 is too little, we have to be more ambitious!
i also want to congratulate mr turmes on the agreement reached on this directive. we know that energy efficiency is indeed one of the most powerful anti-crisis measures we can have at the moment in the context of the european union. we are tired of austerity and sanctions policies without a penny of investment in european economies and energy efficiency could be one of those areas of investment. we see the waste we have in terms of consumption, we see what is the stranglehold of many european companies, especially because they cannot pay their energy bills and we also see that we have an extreme dependence on fossil fuels and the oligarchies that produce these fossil fuels. so it's obvious that this investment has to be taken seriously and we can't continue to treat energy efficiency like a lape flower that governments can then use as they please or if they don't want to use they don't use. it is, in fact, a crisis-management policy, it is an investment policy. the european union has a key role to play here and if we want growth and jobs, energy efficiency is a way to do that.
it is clear that energy efficiency can and should contribute to achieving the objectives of better environmental sustainability and economic independence. however, the persistence of a neoliberal model has only contributed in practice to increasing the prices of these goods for the final consumer, and also to increasing the exponential profit of the companies cooperating in this area. energy must be regarded as a basic and basic commodity and many consumption behaviours can only be analysed from this point of view, which means that many people only consume the essentials and this does not depend on a lack of consumer information. what happens is that there are many companies providing this kind of service, like monopolies, that charge very high prices. the concept of market liberalisation, the idea that the consumer can freely choose his supplier, is far from proving to be a factor in lowering prices, quite the contrary. in this sense, rather than subsidising industries and companies with lower energy costs with state aid, it is essential to regulate the energy prices charged by companies providing these services.
commissioner oettinger, in view of what we know about the implementation of the third package - and part of this has already been discussed today - with regard to the delay in transposing its directives, and apparently the latest information i have is that 18 member states have been notified - probably this information is out of date because of lack of transposition - my question to you is: how does it see the possibility of including in the legislation being prepared, particularly on transeuropean networks, a provision, an incentive, which makes the submission of pcis, projects of common interest conditional on the member states complying with the obligations arising from the third package, or, on the contrary, believes that this is an extravagant mechanism and that all intervention in this area should be left to the regular competition mechanisms (article 101) and their successors?
the commission's goodwill and tolerance, the spirit of tolerance that has existed in this matter, but the question is whether, with legislation being prepared which may introduce additional and much stronger conditionality, do you think that this conditionality is an abusive instrument or do you think that this conditionality would be acceptable?
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the fact that the workers in the shipyard have been made redundant and that they have specialised technical experience makes it difficult to apply to other industries. as there are 550 workers who have great difficulty in finding employment, i consider it essential to provide these professionals with personalised measures supported by the egf in the amount shown. it is these situations which put the social and economic well-being of european citizens at stake, which we must take into account. this globalisation adjustment fund not only serves the purpose of adjusting our economy by compensating for the global economy, but above all it protects citizens and businesses in difficulty, who in a time of crisis must and deserve to be taken into account. the fund thus mitigates to some extent some of the harmful consequences of the current economic, financial and social crisis in europe, which we must address.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported the present report on the mobilisation of eur 6 445 104 from the egf for denmark to support the 550 potential beneficiaries of the 981 redundancies at odense steel shipyard as the main company and four suppliers and downstream producers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2011/008 dk/odense steel shipyard, denmark), as the conditions for its mobilisation have been met.
in writing. − i agree with the modalities of the mobilisation of the egf in support of workers made redundant at the odense steel shipyards in denmark, in this fourth mobilisation of the fund in 2012. the european shipbuilding industry has, in recent decades, been losing significant market shares to asia. this sector, hit hard by the global economic and financial crisis, has seen its workforce in europe decline by 23% over the last three years. i also regret that denmark is one of the countries that is compromising the negotiations on the egf after 2013, when it has successfully used the egf several times. finally, i would like to recall that the egf was born following a 2005 commission report - 'european values in the context of globalisation' - and it was in this context that president barroso sent a letter to the eu heads of state and government and to the european parliament proposing the creation of this fund. seven years later, the effects of the crisis have not only persisted but also worsened, clearly demonstrating the importance of a europe of solidarity and an effective redistribution of resources between member states. it is a pity that these examples are not replicated in other european mechanisms...
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, as i considered that denmark met the conditions for the request concerning 585 redundancies at the odense shipyard, due to relocations to low-cost non-community countries.
in writing. - this is the second time that the european parliament has approved the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for this same company - the odense steel shipyard in the shipbuilding sector - to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis in the odense community, denmark. in october 2010 there were 1,356 workers laid off. this time, as a consequence of the closure of the shipyard, there are 981 more cases of workers being laid off. the labour force in the shipbuilding industry in europe, according to the annual report of the community of european shipyards' associations (cesa), has decreased by 23% over the last three years. this is the result of capitalist globalization and the policies that support it, forcing competition among workers and the general devaluation of the workforce. as the economic and social crisis deepens, more redundancies are emerging, especially in productive sectors, but not only. we therefore continue to advocate the extension of the crisis derogation, which increased the eu co-financing rate to 65%.
in writing. − in the framework of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 4 june 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the fourth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 455 104 from the egf for denmark. it concerns 981 redundancies, 550 of which were potential beneficiaries of support, at odense steel shipyard as the parent company and four suppliers and downstream producers in denmark during the four-month reference period from 1 may 2011 to 31 august 2011. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the request for the mobilisation of the egf made by denmark in respect of the 981 redundancies, 550 of which were potential beneficiaries of support, in the odense steel shipyard and in four suppliers and producers. i believe that the european commission should mobilise € 6 455 104,00 euros to help the vocational integration of workers in danish shipbuilding companies. the financial package now approved should be channelled to support measures in the area of vocational guidance, individual training and general information provided through specific employment channels.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the construction sector in europe is facing major difficulties, especially in the case of spain, where the real estate boom has had dire economic consequences for the country, its citizens and businesses at a time of financial crisis. the case presented in this report relates to 836 incidents in 377 companies in the construction sector between january 2011 and october of the same year, leaving 320 workers with enormous difficulties in finding employment. i also welcome this report from the egf, because this fund is precisely the one that should be used to mitigate the economic and social consequences of the crisis.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 13 000 000 from the egf for spain to support the 320 potential beneficiaries of the 836 workers made redundant by 377 companies in the building industry in the aragon region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2011/017 es/aragón), as the conditions laid down in the egf regulation have been met.
in writing. − in the face of structural changes in international trade, it is important that the european economy is able to implement effectively the instruments to support workers affected by this and to train them for their rapid reintegration into the labour market. as acknowledged by the commission in its plan to relaunch the european economy, the construction sector has experienced a sharp drop in demand due to the crisis, thus showing a positive correlation between increased redundancies and changes in world trade patterns. in this connection, i am voting in favour of the mobilisation of the egf for the province of aragon, spain. however, it should be noted that the mobilisation of funds via the egf cannot replace measures which are the responsibility of undertakings by virtue of national labour law or collective agreements. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the financing of the community's social security system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report proposing to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain. this application concerns redundancies in the construction sector and includes measures to reintegrate 320 workers into the labour market.
in writing. - this is the third time that spain has used egf support for the aragon region. the previous two times it was to support the automotive and retail sector with the stated aim of supporting the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the economic and financial crisis. it is worth noting that unemployment has increased sharply in aragon and that at the end of 2011, the number of workers registered in the public unemployment services was close to 100,000. a region in turmoil in a country in turmoil because of the austerity decreed by the eu's power centers. their policies only add to the crisis and unemployment to unemployment. in this context, we again regret the council's decision not to extend beyond 2011 the crisis derogation, which increased the eu co-financing rate to 65%. this means that the countries with the greatest economic and social difficulties, those with the highest number of business closures and the highest unemployment, are the ones that will be least able to use this fund. we continue to advocate an increase in egf co-financing, especially for countries with weak financial conditions, such as portugal, in order to ensure that the national share does not exceed 5% of the overall funding provided.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 18 june 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. this is the fifth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 300 000 from the egf for spain. the application concerns 836 redundancies, 320 of which are potential beneficiaries of the intervention, in 377 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 41 (building) in the nuts ii region of aragon (es 24) during the nine-month reference period from 31 january 2011 to 31 october 2011. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. spain has submitted an application to mobilise the egf in favour of 836 redundant workers, 320 of whom are potential beneficiaries, in 377 enterprises in the building sector in the spanish region of aragon. i agree with the mobilisation of eur 1 300 000,00 to support the reintegration of workers into the labour market, in particular vocational training measures aimed at creating high value-added jobs in the footwear sector, thus avoiding the off-shoring of knowledge acquired in this industrial sector. it should also be noted that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of spanish companies, as it is a complementary support granted by the european union to alleviate the social difficulties that workers will face.
in writing. − i welcome this report, considering that investment in innovative energy technologies, capable of providing jobs, wealth, sustainability and independence from fossil fuel imports, is an important strategy in the recovery of the european economy. although the right has stood firm in its defence of reduced investment, my group has been able to carry out work whose outcome is reflected in this report: a strong directive to help reduce 20% of energy consumption by 2020, as outlined by the european commission in its 2020 strategy towards green, smart and sustainable growth, to address energy scarcity, to create jobs and to support economic growth in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that ambitious policies are needed to combat climate change and resource scarcity. energy efficiency has proven to be the cheapest and fastest way of reducing co2 emissions. i also believe that it is essential to take measures to reduce the eu's external energy debt and to increase the geopolitical independence and energy security of the european union, as well as to keep energy costs under control and to achieve sustainable growth in the european union.
in writing. − this directive is an opportunity for europe to deliver on the commitments made by heads of state on energy and climate in march 2007 and february 2011. the aim is to achieve a 20% increase in eu energy efficiency, which will lead to a reduction of 368 million tonnes of oil equivalent (toe) by 2020 compared to the current trend. i believe that the european union cannot fail to achieve the energy efficiency objective; if it does not, it will also fail in relation to climate change, energy security, environmentally friendly growth and social protection. the renewal, every year, of 3% of the total surface area of 'heated and/or cooled buildings' owned by the state or occupied by the central government, as well as the installation of smart meters that help consumers to improve their energy efficiency behaviour are some examples of what this directive aims to introduce towards greater energy efficiency. i would stress that this directive encourages member states and regions to use the structural funds and the cohesion funds to invest in energy efficiency measures.
in writing. - we believe that it is imperative to take significant steps to increase energy efficiency and, in general, to rationalise energy consumption. this requires profound changes, which must involve a change in the dominant economic model on a world scale. continuing the principles that have guided energy policies in the eu, such as the liberalisation of energy markets, will not achieve this. in the so-called market economy the aim is to produce and sell, increasing supply, inducing demand, which underlies unsustainable energy consumption. this will partly explain why efficiency is the poor relation of european energy policy. the report highlights several positive aspects, including the fact that energy efficiency is an essential element in achieving the sustainability of the use of energy resources, the issue of smart meters, the energy efficiency of buildings and concern for smes. but what is missing is the essential thing: the break with neoliberal policy to allow energy efficiency that does not come under the influence of the crisis and the increasing energy poverty in europe.
in writing. − it is widely accepted that policies are needed to combat climate change and resource scarcity. in agreeing with the objective of keeping energy costs under control and achieving sustainable growth in the european union, i voted in favour of this report. in fact, experts consider energy efficiency to be one of the most efficient and least costly ways of reducing co2 emissions. in this respect, i consider this policy to be important, as do the adoption of measures leading to increased energy independence for the union and making it possible to reduce the union's external debt in the field of energy.
in writing. − the european commission has presented the 'energy 2020' initiative, putting energy at the heart of the union's energy strategy for 2020. the communication also stresses the need for a new energy efficiency strategy that would enable all member states to decouple energy consumption from economic growth. the european union has been leading the global negotiations on how to achieve greater energy efficiency, as all actions and measures taken will have an impact on climate change, energy security, environmentally friendly growth and social protection. i agree with this report because i believe that the eu must take a common approach to strengthening energy saving and energy efficiency by focusing on new innovative products and services, economies of scale between companies and reducing the bureaucratic burdens that exist in all member states. i also believe that european efficiency policy will be based on existing and successful regional and national policies, and that there should be sufficient flexibility to adapt to the needs and specificities of member states and regions.
in writing. - we agree with the general objective of increasing energy efficiency. it is, however, regrettable that the much-vaunted 20% target by 2020 - one of the five main objectives of the failed europe 2020 strategy - is far from being achieved. it is not surprising that, based on the continuity of the principles that have guided energy policies in the eu - such as energy market liberalisation and private and subsidised production from renewable sources - this objective will be difficult to achieve, as the so-called market rules have little effect on energy efficiency. the neoliberal functioning of the economy implies producing and selling, increasing supply, inducing demand, and not intervening to reduce the consumption of the goods produced. the report points to several positive aspects - the issue of smart meters, energy efficiency in buildings and concern for smes. however, if the aim is to help consumers in a time of crisis, then regulation of energy prices by energy service companies, which make huge profits, would be necessary. the report does not interfere with the interests of these monopoly companies, placing the burden of efficiency solely on the consumer.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that it is for parliament alone to decide whether or not to waive immunity, and that parliament may take account of the position of the member concerned when deciding whether or not to waive his immunity. in this regard, and considering that the facts of this case, as presented in the documents submitted to the committee on legal affairs, indicate that the alleged events have no direct and obvious connection with the exercise by jarosław leszek wałęsa of his duties as a member of the european parliament and that he is therefore not acting in the exercise of his duties as a member of the european parliament, i agree with the decision to waive the immunity of jarosław leszek wałęsa.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of jarosław leszek wałęsa, mep, in a legal action concerning an alleged infringement of the road traffic code in connection with a traffic accident. considering that the facts of this case, as presented in the documents submitted to the committee on legal affairs, indicate that the alleged events have no direct and obvious connection with the performance by jarosław leszek wałęsa of his duties as a member of the european parliament, it was decided to waive the parliamentary immunity. on the basis of these arguments, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the prosecutor-general of the republic of poland has requested the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of the member of the european parliament jarosław leszek wałęsa in the context of a legal action concerning an alleged infringement. given the position of the committee on legal affairs and the fact that the facts of this case, as presented in the documents submitted to this committee, indicate that the events have no direct connection with the performance of your duties as a member of the european parliament, i voted in favour.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that, like the other report in this session, it is for parliament alone to decide whether or not to waive immunity, and that parliament may take account of the member's position when deciding whether or not to waive his immunity. in this regard, and considering that the facts of this case, as presented in the documents submitted to the committee on legal affairs, indicate that the alleged events have no direct and obvious connection with birgit collin-langen's performance of her duties as a member of the european parliament and that she was therefore not acting in the exercise of her duties as a member of the european parliament, i agree with the decision to waive the immunity of birgit collin-langen.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of mep birgit collin-langen in a legal action relating to an alleged offence. the target has been heard and has requested the swift lifting of immunity to clarify the matter. it was therefore decided to waive parliamentary immunity, which i voted for.
in writing. - a request was made for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of a member of the european parliament, birgit collin-langen, in connection with a legal action. in view of the position of the committee on legal affairs and the fact that the alleged activities have no direct connection with the performance of her duties as a member of the european parliament, i voted in favour of the waiver of her immunity.
in writing. − i approve this report, recalling that counter-terrorism strategies can only be effective if they are conducted in strict compliance with human rights obligations and, in particular, the right to a fair and equitable trial. given the extremely sensitive nature of counter-terrorism policies, i believe that only genuine national security reasons can justify secrecy. however, state secrecy can under no circumstances take precedence over fundamental inalienable rights and therefore arguments based on such a situation can never be used to limit the legal obligations of states to investigate serious violations of human rights. on the other hand, there is a need to provide for safeguards to prevent any future breaches of fundamental rights during the implementation of counter-terrorism policies and member states, while having declared their willingness to comply with international law, have not yet fully complied with the positive obligation incumbent on all member states to investigate serious human rights violations related to the cia programme. the report regrets the delays in fully clarifying this case in order to provide full and prompt reparation to the victims, including apologies and compensation where appropriate.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential that procedures be rigorous and transparent, that the rules of the european union be strictly observed and that international agreements be fully respected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it argues that counter-terrorism strategies can only be effective if they are conducted in strict compliance with human rights obligations and in particular the right to a fair and equitable trial. the current investigations by member states must be guided by sound judicial evidence and by respect for national judicial systems and eu law, and not just by information provided by the media or public opinion.
in writing. - the report has the merit of drawing attention to the hideous and now irrefutable fact that the cia used the territory of several eu countries to transport people who, without any judicial charge or arrest warrant, were transported to the us military base at guantanamo and to various countries where they were tortured and, according to some reports, in some cases murdered. this is all the more serious because it is surrounded by a web of silence and complicity involving bilateral and multilateral agreements, the council, the member states, the usa, nato and the cia. all involved in the illegal and arbitrary detention, torture, ill-treatment and enforced disappearance of hundreds of people in the name of an alleged fight against terrorism. in assessing this report, we do not share the federalist perspective which shapes it, seeking to put the council as judge of the member states, or involving the european commission in ensuring accountability for human rights violations committed under the cia programme. nor do we share the uncritical approach of nato - which is involved in this process to the hilt - and its role as an organisation whose history shows its links to terrorism, in particular state terrorism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu must ensure that its international obligations are fully respected and that community policies and foreign policy instruments, such as the guidelines on torture and the human rights dialogues, are fully implemented.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the committee urges the member states concerned to carry out independent investigations and to disseminate all necessary information. the fight against terrorism and global insecurity must not violate respect for human dignity and the democratic values on which our society is founded.
in writing. the report draws attention to the hideous and irrefutable fact that the cia used the territory of several eu countries to transport people who, without any judicial charge or arrest warrant, were transported to guantanamo and to various countries where they were tortured and even murdered. these facts are still covered by a web of silence and complicity which involve the council, the member states, the usa, nato and the cia in bilateral and multilateral agreements in the illegal and arbitrary detention, torture, ill-treatment and enforced disappearance of hundreds of people in the name of an alleged fight against terrorism. in valuing this report we do not share the federalist perspective which shapes it, seeking to put the council as judge of the member states, or involving the european commission in ensuring accountability for human rights violations committed under the cia programme. nor do we share nato's uncritical approach and its role as an organisation whose history shows its links to terrorism, particularly state terrorism. for our part, we have been warning and demanding explanations from the portuguese government on this matter since 2005. this is the path we will continue to follow.
in writing. − i approve this report, recalling that the european union has committed itself to completing the creation of a common european asylum system (ceas) in 2012 by creating a common area of protection and solidarity based on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for beneficiaries of international protection. i consider the echr to be an evolutionary step in european policy, bringing about a harmonisation of protection standards which is under way through the amendment of member states' legislation and the strengthening of practical cooperation through the work of the european asylum support office (easa). it is now necessary to tackle the third pillar of the esdc head-on, giving substance to the concept of solidarity and shared responsibility, enshrined in article 80 tfeu, which constitutes an essential horizontal component of the esdc. the esdc is specifically important because, in other words, it aims to be a comprehensive solidarity framework in which member states receive support to improve the quality of their asylum systems with a view to ensuring full respect for asylum seekers, which will in turn ensure the proper application of the asylum acquis.
in writing. − the european union has committed itself to completing the creation of a common european asylum system (ceas) by 2012, based on three pillars: harmonisation of protection standards through closer alignment of member states' asylum legislation; practical and effective cooperation with the necessary means; and greater solidarity and a sense of responsibility, not only between member states but also between the eu and third countries. it is important to ensure the smooth functioning of the ees, especially when migratory flows are often mixed, including migrants, asylum seekers, refugees and vulnerable persons. in this context, this report argues that member states, local authorities and civil society should be informed about the various european funds that can be used in the field of asylum. the asylum system of the member states should be regularly and frequently assessed to identify good practices and weaknesses. member states should show solidarity with each other and share responsibility, in particular as regards the joint processing of asylum applications and the relocation of beneficiaries of international protection. i therefore support this report.
in writing. − the common european asylum system, which the eu has committed to complete by 2012, is based on three pillars: harmonisation of protection standards through closer alignment of member states' asylum legislation; effective and well-resourced practical cooperation; and greater solidarity and a sense of responsibility, not only between member states but also between the eu and third countries. the harmonisation of protection standards is under way through amendments to the legislation of the member states and practical cooperation is to be strengthened through the european asylum support office (easa). it is now time to address the third pillar of the esc and to give substance to the concept of solidarity and shared responsibility. i voted in favour of the report because it aims to establish a genuine area of protection in which the rights of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection are duly respected and promoted.
in writing. − we urgently need a common solution that ensures uniform respect for and promotes the fundamental rights of asylum seekers and also allows us to respond to the problems resulting from the disproportionate pressures and costs to which some member states are subject, mainly due to their geographical location, which can only be achieved through shared responsibility, with a fair and equitable distribution of benefits and burdens. for there to be genuine solidarity between member states, a whole series of measures must be implemented, which should revolve around four main areas: practical cooperation and technical assistance, financial solidarity, allocation of responsibilities and improvement of governance instruments. it is important, however, to remember that solidarity cannot exist without responsibility, and it is up to each member state to keep order in its own home in order to avoid repercussions in other member states. it is essential that there is a climate of mutual trust, which is why it is important to change the governance of schengen in order to ensure the correct application of the schengen acquis and to increase confidence in the union's ability to deal jointly and in a spirit of solidarity with problems related to border controls, which will make a decisive contribution to facilitating the participation of member states in solidarity initiatives on asylum.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'strengthening solidarity in the european union in the field of asylum' because i consider the creation of a common european asylum system (ceas) to be a positive step. the creation of an inclusive area of protection and solidarity based on a common asylum procedure, in which the rights of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection are duly respected and promoted, is to be welcomed.
in writing. - this report draws attention to the very serious problems facing immigrants today. in doing so, it still falls short of a true description of the enormous gravity of the situation. asylum applications in eu countries continue to rise and positive responses are minimal. the dublin regulation falls far short of the needs for a more humanistic approach in this area. the eu continues to ignore the reality of many millions of human beings fleeing hunger and war and seeking a life and work of dignity for themselves and their families. millions of human beings are confronted with the repressive and inhumane policy of the eu, which has one of its expressions in frontex. they're running away from chronic poverty. they are fleeing from a sometimes dramatic political, economic and social situation to which eu policies have contributed greatly. to ignore or pretend not to see this reality is to be an accomplice. and the eu - and the majority of this parliament - have been.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the establishment of a genuine area of protection in which the rights of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection are duly respected and promoted.
in writing. − this report aims to complement the common european asylum system (ceas) in terms of greater responsibility-sharing and solidarity between member states, and between the eu and third countries. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools in the member states and the european schools in the union. the european asylum support office plays a key role in harmonising european standards and identifying weaknesses in the member states' asylum systems. more technical support, more coordination between existing funds, more training, identification of shortcomings and sharing of good practice are essential for a genuine common asylum policy.
in writing. - this report is limited to describing the situation of immigrants, which is extremely serious. the fact is that asylum applications in eu countries continue to increase and the positive responses are minimal and the dublin regulation is far from meeting the needs of a more humanistic approach to this matter. the eu continues to ignore the reality of many millions of human beings fleeing hunger and war and seeking a life and work that is dignified for them and their families and confronting the repressive policy of the eu which has in frontex one of its expressions. they are fleeing chronic poverty in search of what is denied them by policies which in their countries and in the eu have a common vector: exploitation. they are fleeing from a political, economic and social situation which is often dramatic and to which eu policies have contributed a great deal. to ignore or pretend not to see this reality is to be an accomplice. and the eu - and the majority of the ep - is complicit when it uses the historical dependence of the peripheral countries to impose free trade agreements, when it promotes interference and war that leads to the destruction of these countries.
in writing. - i approve this report because i believe that this proposal to revise and replace the existing legal framework on european standardisation reinforces european commitments to products and services. the added value of this proposal, as it was reformulated in the negotiations with the european parliament, was the increased involvement of the social partners and other stakeholders in the improvement of the proposal for a regulation, and the introduction of two key issues related to the involvement of trade unions and the limitation of european standardisation in the service sectors, where the commission cannot affect, in the european standardisation act, the right to negotiate, conclude and implement collective agreements, was decisive in my view. the standardisation of service products in the european union needs to be transparent and based on the involvement of key players in order to achieve innovation and market competitiveness while protecting fundamental social principles.
in writing. - this standardisation proposal was the first of 12 measures launched by internal market and services commissioner michel barnier as part of his strategy to relaunch the single market. european standardization is, in my view, the sine qua non for the effective functioning of a european market which is to be called a single market. a single market which is transparent and uniform in its rules and in the classification of the products traded on it was one of the main objectives of the founding fathers of the union when they created the then ecsc/eec. no more english, german, french, spanish, italian or swedish standards (for example for industrial products) competing with each other (and surprise!) with the european standards themselves created for the entire eu area! it is also surprising that in a so-called 'single market' the imperial system and the metric system still exist! i am therefore in favour of all legislative measures leading to the creation of common market rules. only in this way can we move towards a true union of peoples and states, which is obviously intended to be free of any technical or other barriers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the european standardisation system because it aims to address key issues requiring in-depth analysis and thus facilitate discussions with the commission, and on the other hand to strike the right balance between the national, european and international dimensions.
in writing. the rapporteur believes that standardisation contributes to increasing the competitiveness of enterprises, in particular by facilitating the free movement of goods and services, and also to increasing competition and lowering production and selling costs. standardisation is thus seen as a step towards deepening the single market, free competition and, therefore, the resulting divergences and asymmetries. another issue of concern is the intention to develop european standards in the services sector, as provided for in the services directive, which will lead to greater harmonisation in this sector, increase the transparency, quality and competitiveness of european services, this is an integral part of the intention to liberalize the services sector. this liberalization of services is, in turn, inseparable from the attack on public services and the social functions of the states, and can have very serious implications for several countries, particularly those with more fragile social situations, and is even more serious in a crisis situation such as the one we are experiencing, particularly in portugal. we obviously recognise the importance of standardising products and processes in contemporary economies and societies. but it is the whole commercial philosophy behind this report that bothers and worries us.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative proposal on the revision of the standardisation regime (commission report) because it represents a major step forward in the convergence and harmonisation of product and service specifications within the union, removing barriers to movement and competition in the internal market. it is actually a piece of the so-called single market act announced by the european commission last year, which aims to deepen the internal market. standardisation establishes a level playing field in competition between undertakings, eliminates national borders, widens markets for undertakings, reduces production costs, better protects consumers and increases the external competitiveness of the union economy. in addition, internal standardisation leverages the union's initiatives and efforts to extend standardisation internationally, either through bilateral trade agreements or through bilateral instruments. international trade is increasingly dependent on the convergence of regulatory standards and the elimination of non-tariff barriers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which welcomes the commission's proposal for a revision of the european standardisation system, taking due account of parliament's request that the revision of european standardisation should retain its many positive aspects and fill in its gaps and strike the right balance between the national, european and international dimensions.
in writing. the european commission has presented the proposal for a regulation on european standardisation which aims to improve the method of establishing standards and the corresponding application of standards in the european area. i am voting in favour of the european standardisation process because i believe it will benefit european competitiveness, defend consumer rights, respond to climate change and ensure a growing openness to new markets. in a time of economic and financial crisis, the existence of conflicting national standards or the absence of harmonised standards leads to higher transaction costs and unit costs due to the need to produce separate batches. i also believe that special attention should be paid to small and mediumsized enterprises (smes) which face a number of problems with european standards and standardization, and that it should be ensured that in the field of ict standards are drawn up by european standardisation bodies and not by other bodies.
in writing. − the concept of european standardisation implies cooperation between industry, public authorities and other stakeholders. the report argues that standardisation contributes to increasing the competitiveness of enterprises, in particular by facilitating the free movement of goods and services, and also to increasing competition and lowering production and selling costs. these standards and eu standardisation are used as policy instruments to ensure the smooth running of the single market, promoting free competition and thus deepening divergences between countries. we are also concerned about the intention to develop european standards in the services sector, as provided for in the services directive, which, according to the report, will lead to greater harmonisation in this sector, increase transparency, quality and competitiveness of european services. on the contrary, the liberalisation and privatisation of services will have negative consequences for the populations of the member states, especially those in weak social and economic situations, as is the case in portugal.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that food safety is one of the main concerns of european citizens. european legislation should therefore ensure optimum protection by updating and strengthening provisions as often as necessary. thus, following the bovine spongiform encephalopathy (bse) crisis, the eu adopted strict rules on the identification and traceability of bovine animals as early as 1997. i agree with the rapporteur that she welcomes the commission's present legislative proposal, as it will enhance the safety of beef for consumers. i would point out that the rapporteur proposes certain additional clarifications on each aspect of the text under consideration, which i consider relevant with regard to the electronic identification of bovine animals and which will allow more reliable data to be obtained, thus strengthening the traceability system and, consequently, food safety. with regard to the simplification of labelling and in particular with regard to the updating of the powers conferred on the commission, it is important that, no later than five years after the entry into force of this regulation, the commission submits to the european parliament and to the council a report and, if necessary, appropriate proposals on the application of this regulation and on the progress made.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential that the safety of beef for consumers be improved and because i believe that, given the great diversity of situations on european beef farms, electronic identification should remain optional for farmers unless the member state concerned chooses to impose it on its territory.
in writing. - food safety is a concern of european citizens which we must ensure. consumer information must be clear, objective and the result of a simple, non-bureaucratic process. optional labelling of beef is of obvious importance as it prevents the proliferation of misinformation to consumers on sensitive issues such as breed, breeding and meat processing, which the consumer information regulation should address. beef is a very sensitive product in the community market, which is very much under pressure from third countries with lower standards of animal welfare and production systems. i believe that the labelling system should be improved, but with concrete rules and a clear and equal control system for all member states, always in the spirit of a community system which prevents different practices that distort competition, that is, it should be mandatory for all member states, similar to what currently exists for poultrymeat or eggs.
in writing. − this regulation aims to pave the way for the abolition of the provisions on voluntary beef labelling by laying down general rules to provide a framework for and protect consumers, public health and public confidence, by means of objective information which is verifiable by the competent authorities and understandable to consumers. our group did not follow the proposed amendments because it considered that they weakened the consumer's right to information. we welcome the recognition of the differences in agricultural systems and practices and in the organisations of the sector between member states, and therefore they should be able to decide whether or not to introduce fdi in their territory, including the beef organisations in the discussion and taking into account small farmers and potential impacts. some concerns and doubts remain as to the implications for the process of receiving direct aid. we do, however, appreciate the fact that care should be taken that in cases of defective electronic identification, the failure of the technology does not lead to the imposition of financial penalties on farmers. the report acknowledges that there are practical problems which continue to impede the effective functioning of fdi, especially as regards the accuracy of the technology.
in writing. - although i voted in favour of the report as a whole, i voted against the proposals for amendments to the regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1760/2000 as regards the electronic identification of bovine animals. the purpose of this regulation is to abolish the provisions on the voluntary labelling of beef and veal. i consider this system to be very important, since it makes it possible to specify and value aspects such as those relating to breed, diet and production systems, aspects which are as important for consumers as they are for farmers who use these terms for commercial purposes and also derive dividends from them. in the case of portugal, the effort made by producers who saw in the implementation of such voluntary schemes (which require approval of specifications by the competent authorities, specific control and labelling) an added value for national production, could be frustrated if the same schemes cease to exist.
in writing. - i supported the position of the rapporteur who received the commission's proposals on the introduction of electronic identification of bovine animals on an optional basis. i believe that it is necessary to adapt the legislation in order to recognise electronic identification as an official means of identifying bovine animals, taking into account how technology and its use in this field develop and become widespread. such technology will bring a number of benefits to those who wish to use it, particularly in the areas of traceability and workforce management. however, it is important that as the use of electronic identification of bovine animals becomes more widespread, technical standards are harmonised throughout the european union.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering it essential to avoid in future all possible gaps in pharmacovigilance legislation in order to protect patients and facilitate the large-scale detention and withdrawal of dangerous medicines. this report is particularly important because current pharmacovigilance legislation sets out the rules and safety monitoring of medicines once they are authorised to circulate on the european market. this legislation was a major european institutional breakthrough, regardless of the specific case that called it into question. in this way, by strengthening the obligations on pharmaceutical companies, by demanding more transparency and by calling for an urgent evaluation at european union level which should be done automatically, this report serves to clarify dubious cases and will certainly contribute to the objectives which this report proposes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the general approach of the document which aims at strengthening the pharmacovigilance system at eu level.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the pharmacovigilance directive because it introduces proposals which will help to fill existing gaps, improve patient protection and facilitate the identification and withdrawal from the market of medicinal products posing risks to public health.
in writing. the report under review, by colleague linda mcavan, is on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2001/83/ec as regards pharmacovigilance. in december 2010, the european parliament and the council agreed to review the rules applicable to pharmacovigilance by adopting directive 2010/84/eu and regulation (eu) no 1235/2010. the package of measures adopted with this new legislation will lead to an improvement in the safety of medicines at eu level, thanks to the reinforced role of the european medicines agency (ema) in terms of collection and response following detection of signs and increased cooperation between member states. i believe that patients in europe should be better informed about the medicines they take and their side effects. the new pharmacovigilance legislation provides, among other measures, for the creation of a european web portal and national drug and device safety portals so that patients can notify national authorities when adverse reactions occur. in this respect, the added value of working with 500 million people is clear compared to the work of individual member states.
in writing. − pharmacovigilance has been under review since december 2010 with a view to its implementation this year, with the aim of improving the safety of medicines at eu level by strengthening the role of the european medicines agency (ema) in the assessment, detection and prevention of adverse reactions to medicines, and enhancing cooperation between member states. as we have stated in previous reports on this same subject, there are aspects of the changes under way which could improve the functioning of this mechanism for the assessment, detection and prevention of adverse reactions to medicinal products. this need for improvement was made evident by the tragic outcome of the mediator case, a diabetes drug that is estimated to have killed between 500 and 2,000 people. pharmacovigilance is undoubtedly of unquestionable importance, especially when adverse reactions to medicines are the fifth leading cause of hospital death, with an estimated 197 000 deaths per year in the eu. we stress the key role that the member states must continue to play in the community pharmacovigilance system. the competent authorities of the member states should continue to act as the screening centre for all spontaneous reports of adverse reactions to medicinal products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the general approach of the commission's proposals to strengthen the system of pharmacovigilance at european union level, which is a key contribution to the health of european citizens.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the amendments to the 2010 directive aim to increase the effectiveness of pharmacology legislation with regard to the collection and follow-up of hazard indices, as well as to increase cooperation between member states. following the eu's stress tests, a set of measures was put forward to improve the system proposed by the 2010 directive, including the introduction of an urgent procedure with an automatic character, a new situation that could trigger an urgent procedure, clarification of the transparency obligations of companies and a larger list of medicines subject to additional monitoring. these measures will increase the effectiveness and supervision of the authorities responsible for this purpose and, at the same time, are intended to strengthen cooperation between member states.
in writing. − this is another report which aims to promote the strengthening of legislation in the field of pharmacovigilance, in particular to facilitate situations requiring the immediate withdrawal of medicinal products from the market. the current legislation has proved insufficient to achieve this objective with the desired brevity and must therefore be adapted to the needs shown by recent experience where dangerous medicines have not been detected and withdrawn from the market in the most effective way. this new legislation brings more transparency and sets important rules, which leads me to vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the pharmacovigilance regulation because it introduces proposals which will help to fill existing gaps, improve patient protection and facilitate the identification and withdrawal from the market of medicinal products posing risks to public health.
in writing. the report under consideration, drawn up by ms linda mcavan, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 as regards pharmacovigilance. in december 2010, the european parliament and the council agreed to review the rules applicable to pharmacovigilance by adopting directive 2010/84/eu and regulation (eu) no 1235/2010. the package of measures adopted under this new legislation will lead to an improvement in the safety of medicines at eu level, thanks to the reinforced role of the european medicines agency (ema) in terms of collection and response following detection of signs and increased cooperation between member states. i believe that patients in europe should be better informed about the medicines they take and their side effects. the new pharmacovigilance legislation provides, among other measures, for the creation of a european web portal and national drug and device safety portals so that patients can notify national authorities when adverse reactions occur. in this respect, the added value of working with 500 million people is clear compared to the work of individual member states.
in writing. − the amendment of this regulation, together with the amendment of directive 2001/83/ec, is another step in the modification of the pharmacovigilance system, i.e. the system for the evaluation, detection and prevention of adverse reactions to medicinal products. we generally support the efforts that have been made in this direction, the need for which has been made evident by the numbers of deaths associated with adverse reactions to medicines. the objectives of this review should be guided by strict criteria of protection and prevention of public health, and therefore any other considerations relating to the strengthening of the internal market and its functioning are dispensable. the rapporteur generally makes a serious effort to correct the identified weaknesses in the eu pharmacovigilance system, ensuring greater transparency and effectiveness of the system in cases where safety issues are identified. among other things, it is intended to ensure that the workload of the pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee remains manageable and to ensure that patients and healthcare professionals are fully involved in pharmacovigilance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 726/2004 as regards pharmacovigilance, as i agree with the general principles which guided this resolution.
in writing. the amendment to this regulation, in the field of pharmacovigilance, relates to the gaps that have emerged after the outbreak of the mediator scandal in france. although amendments to the same regulation were approved in 2010, this case exposed the weaknesses of the amendments themselves. for these reasons, and as a way of making the surveillance of medicines on the market clear and effective, the eu has proposed a set of rules which obliges the operators involved to disclose possible hazards to the corresponding bodies in an automatic and mandatory manner. once again, i am in favour of improving european legislation which aims to protect citizens.
in writing. - i approve this report, welcoming and supporting the commission's proposal, and stress that in any case the limits agreed at the imo will come into force even if no directive is adopted. however, the directive could clarify and standardise the application and control within the eu of the imo agreed limit values, level the playing field, facilitate the transition phase and encourage innovation. the adoption of stricter standards for sulphur would allow considerable health and environmental benefits to be obtained in a cost-effective manner. the commission has also proposed that the maximum sulphur content of 0.1% be extended to passenger ships in regular service, but proposes that this limit should come into force in 2015, at the same time as in sox emission control areas. i also agree that the maximum level currently applicable in eu ports would be extended to territorial waters. these changes would bring significant health and environmental benefits and would also create a level playing field in terms of the impact of retirement costs.
in writing. - it is estimated that air pollution from ships is responsible for some 50 000 premature deaths in europe each year. sulphur and nitrogen oxides release secondary particles into the air which are harmful to health. reducing emissions from ships will make it easier to meet air quality standards in several member states. the adoption of higher sulphur standards will allow considerable health and environmental benefits to be obtained in a cost-effective way from the application of the 0,1% standard at a more general level than only in the current sox emission control areas. for these reasons, and in view of the report by the committee on transport and tourism, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the sulphur content of marine fuels because i believe that the setting of limits for sulphur emissions in a balanced and progressive manner and the consequent improvement in air quality will bring clear benefits for public health and the environment.
in writing. − the main objective of the proposal is to apply the maximum limits approved in 2008 by the international maritime organisation (imo) for the sulphur content of marine fuels. monitoring these values is important as it is currently estimated that air pollution from ships is responsible for some 50 000 premature deaths in europe. sulphur and nitrogen oxides release secondary particles into the air which are harmful to health. reducing emissions from ships will make it easier to meet air quality standards in several member states. however, it is important to take into account that during the transition period, some operators will have to bear significant additional costs, especially in the case of journeys within sox emission control areas. i also welcome the exception to the 0.5% maximum sulphur rule applicable from 2015 to all eu maritime zones and to all vessels, for island areas and the eu's outermost regions. they have a period of 5 years, until 2020, to adapt to the legislation, reducing the negative impact, given their natural characteristics, for a limited number of passenger ships engaged in regular services.
in writing. the commission is proposing to introduce a directive on the use of sulphur in marine fuels. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the commission proposes that the new value of 0,1% for sulphur in emission control zones be also applied to regular passenger ships from 2020. the rapporteur proposes that the date be brought forward to 2015 and that the maximum level currently applicable in eu ports be extended to 12 nautical miles. the objectives of this legislation seem to us to be fair and the changes required necessary. more funding, including from the community budget, is needed for investment in technology that is beneficial to the environment and to people's health. without prejudice to the objectives of this proposal, we in the committee on the environment supported a proposal which sought to safeguard the specific features of certain regions, such as the autonomous region of madeira, by ensuring the necessary adaptations to the rapporteur's proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 1999/32/ec as regards the sulphur content of marine fuels and aimed mainly at the application of the maximum limits approved in 2008 by the international maritime organisation (imo) for the sulphur content of marine fuels.
in writing. − the control of the sulphur content of marine fuels for all seagoing vessels, including passenger vessels, should take into account the negative impact it may have on local populations, in particular those living in the outermost regions and on islands. therefore, the rule of a maximum sulphur content of 0,5% applicable from 2015 to all eu maritime zones and to all vessels provides an exception for the eu's island and outermost regions. they have a period of 5 years, until 2020, to adapt to the legislation, reducing the negative impact, given their natural characteristics, for a limited number of passenger ships engaged in regular services. the international commitments of the member states, in particular with the international maritime organisation (imo), already provided for this limitation, but these changes should be progressive and adapted to the particularities of island regions, and at the same time should take into account an increase in support to operators. at the same time, the process of establishing emission control areas should be subject to procedures of the imo, the only body competent in this field.
in writing. - the amendments to the commission proposal concerning the incomes of farmers in the various countries of the european union are significant. what this report brings back is that under the existing regulation, member states can change their support for programmes allocated under the single payment scheme once a year in a five-year programme. however, according to the commission, the member states would have to decide definitively by the end of the year on the transfer of funds from the envelope for wine growers and this decision would be final. with this report, the introductions propose to convert the five-year measure into an annual measure applied only in 2014 and to provide for the possibility of making a one-off transfer to the single payment scheme from 2015. for these reasons, which i believe bring more possibilities and more flexibility to the member states, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to amend article 103o of regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 (single cmo regulation) which provides for the possibility for member states to grant dissociated aid to wine growers under the single payment scheme (sps) as part of national support programmes for wine growers. i voted in favour of the proposal to decide on the transfer of funds from the wine sector appropriations to a single payment scheme through an annual measure applicable only in 2014, with the possibility of a single transfer (final and irrevocable decision) from 2015 onwards, and to give member states the possibility to decide whether they wish to exclude wine-growing areas from the areas eligible for direct payments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'single payment scheme and support for wine growers'. the proposal aims to change the five-year measure into an annual measure and also to give member states the possibility of deciding on the exclusion of vineyard areas from the areas eligible for direct payments. i welcome this measure, since it will ensure the continuity of decisions taken up to 2013 during the transitional year for direct payments and prevent member states from being able to provide for decisions applicable for five years which are in practice incompatible with the commission's proposal for a new system of direct payments.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to amend article 103 (1) of the single cmo regulation, which provides for the possibility for member states to grant dissociated aid to wine growers under the single payment scheme (sps) as part of national support programmes for wine growers. this report proposes to change the previously established five-year deadline to an annual measure applicable only to 2014, providing for the possibility for member states to carry out a single transfer (final and irrevocable decision) of the wine envelope to the pgi and the decision to exclude the wine-growing areas from the direct payment schemes. this decision can be taken by the member states by 1 august 2013, a six-month extension compared with the commission proposal, taking into account the need to know the results of the current cap reform. although this proposal extends the time limit for member states to take a decision, which we consider to be a positive aspect, we cannot but express our disagreement in principle with the withdrawal of production aid, which is an intrinsic feature of the single payment scheme.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 as regards the single payment scheme and support for wine growers. that regulation ('single cmo') provides for the possibility for member states to grant 'unbundled' aid to wine growers under the single payment scheme. several member states have taken advantage of this opportunity by making use of the transfer of aid programmes from a direct payment scheme to the single payment scheme, thus creating considerable administrative and budgetary burdens. in order to simplify the application of this specific aid measure and to try to ensure that there is consistency with the objectives governing the direct payments scheme, i thought it appropriate to vote in favour, since this amendment proposal is intended to make member states definitively reduce the amounts allocated to the wine sector, and thus increase the national ceilings for direct payments.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the use of the market information system (mis) for administrative cooperation is a tool available to the member states which is best suited to protect the rights of european citizens, its purpose being to establish rules for the use of the mis which include a process for the exchange of personal data of european citizens between the competent authorities of the member states and the commission. this report aims to improve the conditions for the functioning of the internal market by creating a more effective and user-friendly tool to facilitate the implementation of administrative cooperation and the exchange of information. the proposal goes further with the s&d group amendments, which ensure further limitation on the purpose of using personal data, protecting citizens, and ensuring the proper application of the new provisions.
in writing. − the internal market information system (imi) is a free service provided to member states to improve the exchange of information in the internal market, and has been in use since 2008. it is a fast and secure means for cross-border exchange of information and administrative cooperation. currently used for the exchange of information on the recognition of professional qualifications and internal market services, imi continues to operate without a single legal instrument, which is considered one of the main obstacles to further expansion of the imi system. in this sense, this report, which i voted in favour of, supports the creation of a single legal framework for the imi system and a set of rules to ensure its proper functioning, thus allowing for the future expansion of imi to other areas of european union legislation.
in writing. - i consider it essential to improve the exchange of information within the internal market. since 2008, this exchange has been ensured by the internal market information system (imi) which has over 6 000 registered authorities from all eu member states and eea countries. but imi operates on the basis of a commission decision and recommendation and therefore lacks a single legal instrument, which has been identified as one of the main obstacles to further expansion of imi. i voted in favour of this report because i support the establishment of a common set of rules for the operation of imi with a view to making imi a more comprehensive tool for the citizens and the european internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on administrative cooperation through the internal market information system, as i consider that these amendments will make it possible to extend imi to other areas of eu legislation in the future and thus establish a clear set of rules in terms of its operation and data protection processing.
in writing. − the internal market information system (imi) is used as a free service provided to member states to improve the exchange of information within the internal market. the specific purpose of this regulation is to establish a single legal framework for the functioning of imi in order to contribute to the further expansion of this instrument. it also aims to enable the future extension of imi to other eu legislative areas and to establish a clear set of rules, including data protection processing. the imi is nothing more than an instrument designed to deepen and develop the internal market. that is how we evaluate it and take a stand on it. that is why we do not support this report. the question of data protection is another problem raised in this regulation. first, they want to open up imi to external actors, which could jeopardise the security and protection of personal data. secondly, the commission is not explicit about maximum retention periods for personal data in imi.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to establish a set of common rules for the operation of the internal market information system. i am convinced that the commission is doing its best to ensure that the single market is not simply a matter of a single market, but also a single market in which the citizens of the union have the right to know what they want. the internal market information system has already proven to be a reliable and efficient tool in the two areas where it has already been working the professional qualifications directive and the services directive and the proposal under consideration will therefore allow the full potential of the system to be further exploited with clear benefits for citizens and the internal market.
in writing. - article 26 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that 'the internal market shall comprise an area without internal frontiers in which the free movement of goods, persons, services and capital is ensured in accordance with the provisions of the treaties'. in addition, the union is responsible for adopting measures to establish the internal market or to ensure its functioning. to improve the exchange of information within the internal market, a free service for member states has been set up, the internal market information system (imi). i agree with this report because i believe that the system is a fast and secure means of cross-border exchange of information and administrative cooperation, with over 6 000 registered authorities at present. i would also like to stress that all personal data and information that circulates between the various competent authorities must be collected, processed and used for strictly legitimate purposes and in accordance with data protection rules.
in writing. − the internal market information system (imi) is used as a free service provided to member states with the stated aim of improving the exchange of information within the internal market. thus, this regulation has the specific purpose of establishing a single legal framework for the functioning of imi in order to contribute to the further expansion of this instrument. it also aims to enable the future extension of imi to other eu legislative areas and to establish a set of rules such as data protection processing. the imi is therefore nothing more than an instrument designed to deepen and develop the single market, which we have criticised. data protection is also one of the major concerns raised by this report - the opening of imi to external actors may jeopardise the security and protection of personal data, as it may make the system accessible to the private sector. secondly, the commission is not explicit in setting maximum retention periods for personal data in imi, considering that retention periods should not go beyond what is necessary to achieve the objectives of this regulation, which leaves room for an indefinite retention period.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that four years after the outbreak of the financial, economic and social crisis, it is essential to have a clear understanding of the direction in which the member states are moving, taking into account all possible solutions to bring europe back on the path of growth and development. on the one hand, it is essential to create and initiate new common policies with the help of which we will be sufficiently united and strong to avoid a crisis in the future. on the other hand, in difficult times like the present, it is also necessary to rethink existing policies and commitments and, if necessary, to test them to assess their relevance and adequacy to the challenges ahead. the council directive on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different member states has been amended several times over the last few years, but there are still technical improvements to be made as also mentioned in the commission communication in the name of clarity and accountability.
in writing. − council directive 2003/49/ec regulates the common taxation regime applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different member states. however, problems remain with regard to the functioning of the internal market, in particular the effect of the corporate tax: transactions between different member states are subject to higher interest and royalty rates than the taxation of the same transactions within the domestic market. the objective of this council directive is thus to ensure greater harmonisation between the charges paid within and between different member states, by eliminating certain problems such as double taxation, tax fraud and evasion and the possibility of involuntary non-taxation, which cause many damage to the proper functioning of the internal market. the european commission is also urged to define a minimum value for the fees paid by companies within the european union, taking into account factors such as tax competitiveness between certain countries and in a way that does not prejudice the sustainable consolidation of member states' national budgets. i have supported this report because i consider it an important step in the process of building an efficient, competitive and truly value-adding internal market for european businesses and citizens.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it important that every effort be made to reduce the possibilities of involuntary non-taxation, double taxation or tax evasion and avoidance between member states, as these phenomena cause significant damage to the proper functioning of the internal market, as indicated in the recently adopted motion for a resolution on concrete means of combating tax evasion and avoidance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the common tax system applicable to interest and royalty payments. cooperation between the tax systems of the different member states is increasingly desirable. i consider this proposal to be positive, since it aims to exclude any possibility of tax evasion, tax substitution or illegitimate tax exemptions.
in writing. − the common tax regime applicable to the taxation of interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different member states is the subject of this council directive (2003/49/ec). the aim is to avoid double taxation of income. this can be achieved in two ways: taxing income in the member state where it is produced or in the member state where the head office of the company benefiting from it is located. the proposal is to tax interest and royalties in the member state where the company receiving them has its registered office. it is known that associated companies, which are often separate branches of the same organisation, have various mechanisms at their disposal to reduce their payment of tax on profits, in particular by manipulating the prices of goods or services they trade with each other. in this way, they shift profits to where they are least taxed. under article 1 (1), interest and royalties are exempt from tax in the state in which they are paid if the beneficial owner is a company from another member state or a permanent establishment situated in another member state. whether the company is associated with the paying company or not.
in writing. - i abstained on the report on the proposal for a council directive on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different member states (recast) because, although the principle of harmonising rates in the european union has been enshrined, this harmonisation has not been enshrined in the directive. the report also misses the opportunity to make progress in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion in this area, under the cover of the discourse on the elimination of double taxation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on a common tax system for interest and royalty payments between associated companies of different member states. i would stress the importance of updating this system in the light of the lessons learned from the financial crisis and would stress, among the rapporteur's amendments, those relating to 'taxable persons' and 'permanent establishment' which are intended to exclude any possibility of tax evasion, tax substitution or illegal tax exemptions.
in writing. − over the last few years, successive amendments have been made to the council directive on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different member states, and some additional measures could be taken to improve its effectiveness. i support this report because i agree that the european commission should introduce a minimum rate for corporate taxation, and that rate will reduce tax competition and strengthen the freedom of member states to tax companies. i also think it is a good thing that interest and royalties are taxed in a single member state, thereby restoring fairness among european citizens. finally, i believe it is essential to put in place effective mechanisms to prevent tax evasion, tax substitution or illegal tax exemptions, thus strengthening economic transparency within the european union.
in writing. − this report aims to recast directive 2003/49/ec on the taxation of interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different member states. we believe that the introduction of a minimum rate for corporate taxes is inappropriate as member states must retain their sovereignty over the tax rates they apply.
in writing. - i support this joint resolution and the s&d group's proposals are to be emphasised. my group has proposed introducing important priorities to get us out of the crisis, towards smart, inclusive, sustainable and green growth. our priorities are focused on the needs of people and businesses: restoring growth to jobs, including financial market regulation, and pursuing the citizens' agenda: freedom, security and justice. in this way, our emphasis is placed on the social economic market, ensuring sustainable growth so as to provide the next generation of europeans with jobs, as well as preparing the union to integrate all its financial and economic policies, and on the multiannual financial plan, as essential elements to revitalise the future of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 'commission work programme for 2013'. i believe that the ec must use all its powers to pursue an effective policy to meet the many challenges arising from the ongoing crisis. this measure aims at achieving financial stability and economic recovery.
in writing. - the resolution adopted by the majority of this parliament (translating the usual consensus between the right and social democracy) - and which we voted against - on the commission's work programme for 2013 can be summed up in the usual annual exercise of agreement between the two institutions. in the face of the most serious crisis in the eu - which is also an expression of the more general crisis of capitalism in the eu - parliament and the commission are united in yet another leap forward which can only be the source of more and greater expressions of crisis, with very serious consequences for workers and for the people. a further leap in capitalist integration in the eu is being prepared, with the deepening of neoliberalism, federalism and militarism, which sacrifices national sovereignty and democracy in order to implement a system of colonial domination, to force a greater concentration and centralization of capital through the unprecedented increase in the exploitation of those who work and live on the income of their work. the portuguese people are feeling it, with the implementation of the pact of aggression between the imf-ecb-ec and psd-cds troika. serving the profits of big business: this is the obvious design of the integration process, which is increasingly dominated by germany.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution, which is shared by the main political forces in parliament and sets out the guidelines for the commission's programme for 2013. i share the wish that the future common agricultural policy should be more in line with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy in order to encourage innovation in agricultural practices and to ensure the sustainability, equity and competitiveness of european agriculture at local and regional level. it is important, however, not to underestimate the fact that the raison d'être of agriculture is food production and must ensure europe's food independence and its ability to export production in a world with growing food needs. i also share the desire for a new and ambitious common fisheries policy, designed to ensure sustainable and healthy stocks in the long term. but we must not forget fishermen, their families and fishing communities, who must be guaranteed working conditions and fair pay.
in writing. − the european parliament today called on the european commission to use all its powers to promote political leadership capable of meeting the many challenges arising from the current crisis and thus contribute to achieving financial stability and economic recovery in the european union. in the context of the commission's legislative and work programme for the coming year, it is urgent to facilitate the swift adoption of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework and the related multiannual legislative programmes. in addition, it will be important to focus on a strong cohesion policy after 2013, with adequate funding, based on multi-level governance and in line with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. in the area of cohesion, it will be essential to give greater prominence to coordination of this policy with research and development policy.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering this a positive proposal to increase public support for grants. however, it should be noted that member states should work towards creating a transparent donor system that respects ethical values and ensures the protection of both the donor and the recipient. we in the s&d group have included important recommendations to the member states to make this a reality, in particular with regard to the obligation for donations to be voluntary, unpaid and anonymous, compensation for the costs related to the donation alone, coordination in order to prevent the black market and at the same time to encourage campaigns for potential donors. such a proposal, when it becomes a reality, will bring more reliability and security to all potential donors, as well as improving the long-term life expectancy of people dependent on this type of donation.
in writing. − tissue and cell donations should be voluntary and carried out on a non-profit basis in a transparent context. it is important to increase the supply of tissues and cells through exchange, based on good practices in common operations, ethical standards and awareness raising for donation, as well as to strengthen tissue and cell stocks, while ensuring compliance with hygiene and safety standards. public awareness campaigns, targeting pregnant women in particular, should be developed to optimise the potential of cord blood. common standards and practices should also be applied in national and private banks, which should collaborate in order to increase the availability of cord blood samples at national level. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to improve the quality of life of people throughout europe by increasing the flow of donations between member states, which are made on a voluntary, non-profit-making basis and in a context of complete transparency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on voluntary and unpaid tissue and cell donation because i believe it is important to increase public support and the rates of tissue and cell donation. member states should work towards developing, in a transparent manner, tissue and cell banks that respect ethical principles and ensure the safety of donors and patients.
in writing. − this report reinforces the view that tissue and cell donations should be voluntary and carried out on a non-profit basis and in a transparent context. given that healthcare is largely a matter for the member states, the proposed recommendations aim to complement existing practices in the member states and to take advantage of areas such as crossborder giving. altruism is a key word when we talk about tissue and cell donation. that is why i agree that compensation for the grant should be managed and defined carefully by the member states and should be limited to covering strictly the costs incurred by the grant. in these matters it is very important to consider the legal and ethical problems raised by the existence of numerous websites allowing people to buy and sell gamete cells online. in this regard, member states should consider adopting legislation to regulate this area in order to prevent the possible emergence of an online black market. i believe it is important to increase the supply of tissues and cells through the exchange of good practice in joint operations, ethical standards and awareness raising for donation through greater collaboration between member states.
in writing. - i welcome the presentation of this report which reinforces the position the european union has always held on organ, tissue and cell donation, that is to say, as the name implies, it must be absolutely free. the fundamental values for organ, tissue and cell donation, shared by all member states, are those of altruism and solidarity and must remain so, resisting the economic interests that have been developing in this field and thus combating the commercialization of the human body and the instrumentalization of the person.
in writing. − this report presents a set of recommendations on voluntary and unpaid donation of tissues and cells, complementing the practice of member states with exclusive competence in this area. the aim is that donations should be voluntary and made on a non-profit basis in a context of transparency and security, allowing for a small compensation to cover the costs incurred. the proposals concern only multiple tissues and reproductive and non-reproductive cells. it excludes in vitro fertilisation, stem and embryonic cell research and cloning. the rapporteur calls on the member states to take account of the existence of websites selling tissues and cells and the potential for a parallel market. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that cooperation and the exchange of good practice can increase transparency and the flow of donations between member states and thus improve the quality of life of people.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that gender equality must prevail in policy-making as well as in the development of the organic economy. i consider this report to be of particular importance because it underlines the need to overcome the obstacles that women still face today - patriarchal systems where women have fewer rights and thus greater difficulties in owning land, owning loans and having access to education and health care of their own - when we can increase women's participation in the economy by balancing labour market laws so that they are fairer and so allow women themselves to make a strong and important contribution to the development of the green economy.
in writing. − the potential for the creation of 'green jobs' is considered a priority for the european union. the international labour organization estimates that by 2030, this sector will be able to generate something like 25 million new jobs. portugal was considered the third country in the european union with the highest incorporation of renewable energies in 2009. as in other sectors, gender equality in the labour market and the full participation of women in policy-making, decision-making and the implementation of the green economy need to be ensured. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i believe it is essential to implement a green economy that leads to the strengthening of gender equality and the deepening of social justice. a new social and ecological indicator of growth is needed, which includes non-economic aspects of well-being and focuses on issues related to sustainable development, such as gender equality, poverty reduction and the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. research funding is an indispensable lever for the development of society, which should be concentrated on projects for the development of innovative and sustainable transport solutions. it is essential to ensure that women perform better in business and organisational leadership positions. equal representation of women in decision-making bodies, management positions and company boards in the green jobs sector should be ensured. i believe that if this objective cannot be achieved on a voluntary basis, specific measures should be taken, such as the introduction of quotas or other methods, to strengthen equality and democracy.
in writing. - climate change and the depletion of biodiversity are a threat to which we must find urgent responses. the preservation of our ecosystem is without doubt the cornerstone of a green economy, which should imply ecological and social sustainability. they are the most deprived people, estimated to be 70% women, the most severely affected by the effects of climate change and ecosystem destruction. it is unacceptable that in several member states the role of women in the green economy is still undervalued, which leads to a whole range of discrimination in terms of benefits such as social protection, health insurance, wages and pension rights. we urgently need to move towards a green economy in which environmental requirements are inextricably linked to social sustainability, including the strengthening of social justice, with an equitable distribution of resources between individuals, men and women, and between generations. i call on the member states to adopt fiscal measures that will help to promote the implementation of a green economy by quantifying the environmental impact on the one hand and investing funds in the promotion of eco-innovation and sustainable infrastructure on the other, which should be seen as a means of stimulating economic development and job creation.
in writing. − the urgent need for an international agreement on the common definition of a green economy based on the pillars of social and ecological sustainability is agreed, highlighting the significant role of civil society, where women have often taken the lead in defining the goals and objectives of the green economy. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i believe that the commission and, more generally, the european institutions as a whole can play an important role in this respect by designing their development policy in a coherent and balanced way, thus enabling the desired objectives of social and ecological sustainability to be achieved.
in writing. - the dominant economic and social system in the world - capitalism - is proving incapable of providing for the most basic needs of millions of human beings, the poorest of whom are the most affected, and among them women. we believe that sustainable development, based on a sustainable relationship between man and nature, is not possible without breaking, that is, without challenging the capitalist system. in the meantime, we support the rapporteur in the need to implement measures to promote equality between men and women, to strengthen the local public transport network through quantity and quality, to create more childcare and old age homes, to enable women to participate in the green economy on the same terms as men, and to have access to social security services, education and decent housing. we voted in favour of this report and we believe that the member states must create the political, economic and social conditions which will enable women to participate on an equal footing with men in all spheres of economic and social life.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with a green economy, where economic development is part of what nature supports and ensures an equitable distribution of resources between individuals and between generations.
in writing. − this report aims to reduce the existing imbalances between men and women, particularly in decision-making in the fields of politics and economics. with a special focus on gender inequality, the environment and sustainable development and the green economy, it looks at ways to facilitate women's access to the green economy market. it therefore makes recommendations to increase the level of participation of women in this emerging market by means of more training and european programmes designed to this end. i am voting in favour of this report, and i would like to stress once again that i am against the imposition of quotas, because i consider it a negative sign that deprives women of their rights. i think it is more positive to create the necessary conditions, in social and fiscal terms, to enable women to participate in the labour market.
in writing. - capitalism is proving incapable of providing for the most basic needs of millions of human beings worldwide, with the poorest people being the most affected, and women among them. we believe that sustainable development, based on a sustainable relationship between man and nature, and here we are advocating it, is not possible without breaking down, that is, without challenging the capitalist system which exploits nature for profit. we agree with the rapporteur when he says that the economic system must be changed to ensure that natural resources are exploited at a rate that will allow recovery and new production. we also support the rapporteur in the need to implement measures to promote equality between men and women, to strengthen the local public transport network, both in terms of quantity and quality, to create more childcare facilities and homes for the elderly, and to guarantee access to social security services, education and decent housing. we believe that the member states must create political, economic and social conditions which allow women to participate on an equal footing with men in all spheres of life, including the so-called green economy, but we do not support measures such as the introduction of quotas.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that in 2010 in the european union in the service sector, the overwhelming majority of jobs are held by women and almost 50% of women are concentrated in 10 of 130 service sector occupations. these facts are particularly worrying at a time of economic crisis and especially when we also consider the fact that women are paid 16.4% less than men. i therefore support this proposal which aims to give a boost to the improvement of working conditions for women, as this will not only help europe to emerge from the crisis earlier, but also to achieve the 2020 targets more effectively. this proposal includes measures such as the need for the commission to collect data on the impact of austerity on women in the service sector and to call for projects whose underpinnings are aimed at helping women's employment situation.
in writing. - in recent decades, the european union has made great strides in integrating women into the labour market. the employment rate for women is 62%, up from 55% in 1997. on the other hand, women represent almost 60% of all university graduates in the european union. despite the fact that more and more women are highly qualified and their participation in the labour market is increasing, they continue to be largely outnumbered by men in positions of responsibility in the political and business fields, particularly in top positions. there is also a gender division of labour based on stereotypes that assume the existence of male and female jobs. on the other hand, wage disparities are still a reality in the european union. despite the various legal initiatives for equal pay, the gap persists and progress is extremely slow. i voted in favour of this report, which sets out a series of measures, particularly in the field of reconciling work and family life, to improve working conditions for women in the service sector.
in writing. - about half of women in employment are concentrated in 10 of the 130 occupations listed in the international typology of occupations. this horizontal segregation is based on stereotypes rooted in society which presuppose the existence of male and female jobs. most people hired for flexible working hours are women. parttime and temporary employment are still predominantly female. in the eu, women earn 17.1% less than men, although the gender pay gap ranges from 3.2% to 30.9% in the member states. although 60% of university graduates are women, only one in seven board members of the most important european companies is a woman (13.7%). the weight of the informal economy in female employment in the service sector is higher than in male employment. harassment, sexual abuse at work, and other forms of violence against women are of particular concern. i voted in favour of this report because it denounces these situations and points to measures to improve the working conditions of women in the service sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the implementation of measures which help to reduce the segregation of women in the service sector. the level of education of women, which is on average higher than that of men, is rarely accompanied by a rise in the professional hierarchy or an improvement in their employment conditions. it is necessary to implement measures to ensure greater representation of women on boards of directors and to ensure the effective application of the principle of equal pay between men and women.
in writing. - from the middle of the last century, women in modern societies have been emancipated, mainly because their level of education has increased and has rapidly overtaken that of men. in fact, today, 60 percent of college graduates are women. whereas in the past women were said to belong in the home, today there are many professions where they are in the majority, such as the service sector. in the european union, 69.4% of all jobs in this sector are held by women, but this figure falls to 5.2% in agriculture. despite the fact that the employment rate at european level is converging between men and women, the truth is that many women continue to be discriminated against by employers because of their maternity. they therefore work mostly on flexible or parttime hours, which results in a gender pay gap. it is therefore imperative to eliminate gender inequalities in order to prevent all forms of violence against women, which affects all social, cultural and economic strata, with sexual harassment and abuse being prevalent in the service sector.
in writing. − this report highlights the poor working conditions of women in the service sector, including wage discrimination, parttime work, temporary employment, irregular and unpredictable working hours, the scarcity and irregularity of days and rest periods, harsh working conditions. among the many positive proposals in the report, we would stress the need to implement measures to ensure equal pay, combat precarious employment, convert precarious workers into actual workers, strengthen and safeguard workers' rights and working conditions, and ensure that companies implement effective maternity support schemes, among others. the report encourages member states to ratify immediately ilo convention no 189 on domestic workers, with the aim of ensuring decent working conditions. it also stresses the need to create free, quality public social facilities and services to support children and dependants. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, and i would like to stress the proposals for reconciling work and family life, measures to promote family stability and childcare, which are absolutely crucial aspects for gender equality in the world of work.
in writing. − this report provides a detailed analysis of the working conditions of women in the service sector, which employs 83.1% of the female labour force, compared with 58.1% of the male labour force (2010). the report highlights the following issues: gender division of labour, temporary and parttime employment, wage disparities, vertical segregation, the informal economy, reconciliation of work and family life, the situation of immigrants, over-qualification of women, the digital gender gap and violence against women. a purely technical report which presents a number of facts relevant to the analysis of the real situation in terms of gender imbalance, important for concrete action.
in writing. − this report draws attention to the fact that the majority of the female labour force in the eu is employed in the service sector, with many women in precarious working conditions and contracts. parttime work is still predominantly done by women, flexible working hours are spreading in the service sector and temporary employment has become a practice in eu countries. the situation of many women who provide domestic services and are not covered by any kind of social protection is still dramatic. although we do not agree with some of the report's recommendations regarding the deepening of the services market, we think that the overall emphasis of the report is placed on the upliftment of the rights of women workers in services: calls for the fight against precarious employment links in the service sector; encourages the member states to immediately ratify ilo convention no 189 on domestic workers; stresses the need to increase and create free, quality public social facilities and services to support children and dependants. unfortunately, the path taken by the european union and the troika is the exact opposite of the recommendations mentioned above.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that the economic costs and consequences of poor performance in education and its impact on the development of the member states are significantly higher than the costs of the financial crisis. i believe that member states should give priority to their expenditure in the areas of education, training, youth, lifelong learning and mobility, research and innovation, linguistic and cultural diversity, which are investments which, in my view, are essential not only to improve the future economic conditions of member states and european citizens, but also to a fair and balanced future based on growth and knowledge-based development.
in writing. − every two years, the ministers of education of the member states and the european commission prepare a joint report on the overall situation of education and training throughout the eu. this report summarised the measures taken and progress made during the first cycle from 2009 to 2011 and confirmed the need to step up efforts to achieve the europe 2020 targets, in particular on reducing early school leaving, increasing support for higher education in a lifelong learning framework and enhancing transnational mobility for the acquisition of new skills. although the report makes excellent recommendations, some of the key areas have not been properly addressed. in particular, there is a need to strengthen the teaching of other languages in schools, to invest in education even in an unstable economic climate, to reinforce the importance of adult education and informal learning, to increase investment in pre-school education and the possibility of granting scholarships for pre-university education is also suggested. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it raises key issues which should be included in the evaluation and which will contribute to a better achievement of the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its main conclusions and consider it necessary to increase investment in the cepi, given that pre-school education is crucial for the future educational success of individuals and that the studies carried out show that investment in the cepi brings greater compensations than investment in any other stage of education.
in writing. − the austerity measures and the resulting budget cuts that have been affecting education and training systems across the eu may have a negative effect on the level of economic growth that is so necessary to get us out of the current crisis. this growth must be based, as a matter of priority, on education, knowledge and appropriate social policies. the economic costs of school failure, including school drop-out and social inequalities in education and training systems and their impact on growth in the member states are significantly higher than the costs of the financial crisis. we must not forget that young people, who are being hit hard by the effects of the crisis, have a key role to play in achieving the key 2020 targets for employment, research and innovation, climate and energy, education and the fight against poverty. it is essential that member states reassess and strengthen their education and training policies and adopt specific measures for young people at risk. youth policies at european level must also be strengthened, and the commission should provide the necessary support, including financial support, for the development of values, skills and competences in the framework of programmes in the fields of education, youth and citizenship.
in writing. − in the current economic crisis, governments tend to focus on controlling expenditure, especially in member states where austerity measures have led to consequent budget cuts in education and vocational training systems. i voted in favour of this own-initiative report because i believe that the long-term economic growth of the eu, which is so desirable, will have to be centred on education/training and lifelong learning, the knowledge economy, research and development and active inclusion policies. special attention should also be paid to informal/non-formal vehicles that arise within or alongside the formal training/education system (as referred to by the rapporteur). in times of crisis, young people, who are more irreverent, more creative and more vulnerable to unemployment, have an important contribution to make to this knowledge-based economy, which must be stimulated and encouraged by all means. the issues addressed in this document represent real challenges for contemporary society, which is increasingly committed to the fight against poverty, inclusion and social cohesion. what is commonly called 'spending' should therefore be seen as 'smart investment' in policies that are in line with the real educational/training needs of society and a knowledge-based economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 'education and training 2020' programme. the ef 2020 is the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training. highlight how cooperation in education and training can contribute to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives, such as transnational mobility for the acquisition of new skills.
in writing. − the european union (eu), a community striving for the highest levels of excellence, has adopted a growth strategy for the current decade called europe 2020, with the aim of overcoming the current crisis and making the economy more competitive and job-creating. one way of doing this is by promoting smart growth 'through investment in education, research and innovation'. following the ef 2010 programme, the ef 2020 strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training has been established. this report, by mary honeyball, is based on the biennial report prepared by the ministers of education and the european commission on progress made during the first cycle of implementation of ef 2020 (2009-2011). i voted in favour because i agree with the rapporteur's position on the need to increase investment in education and training, focusing on human capital and the prevention of early school leaving. improving access to the lifelong learning programme, multilingualism and student mobility programmes between member states for the acquisition of new skills are recommendations to be taken into account in pursuing the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − this report contains a set of references to the current situation in the member states which identify some of the existing problems, namely: the financial effort not made at the level of higher education and research; the impact of school failure and drop-out on the economic (and, we add, social) growth (and, we add, development) of the member states; the insufficient network of pre-school education, among other aspects. but this report is contradictory. the greatest contradiction that undermines it is the defence of the subordination of education and training to the implementation of the 2020 strategy, which, as we know, seeks to establish, throughout the member states, a school and an education serving the interests of the market and not the integral formation of the individual, in order to enhance his free and full development, the raising of his individual and collective consciousness and his contribution to the development of society as a whole. the report focuses on education for the market and not on education for life, as we advocate.
in writing. − this report presents the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training, areas in which, i reiterate, more investment is needed to meet the ambitious objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the european commission has presented the proposal establishing the 'education and training 2020' programme, which is the strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe it is essential to deepen lifelong learning, to strengthen dual vocational training systems which ensure the interconnection between theory and practice and which allow better entry into the world of work, and to improve the processes for the recognition of university degrees at european level, thus facilitating labour mobility. despite the financial crisis in many member states, i believe that budget cuts in education should not be made because investment in this specific sector is extremely important for the development of countries, their economies and the improvement of the quality of life of the population. this is the only way to achieve the europe 2020 strategy's targets of increasing the number of young people with a university education to 40% and reducing early school leaving to less than 10%.
in writing. - the report under consideration is contradictory and focuses on what we can call education for the market and not education for life as we advocate. nevertheless, the text contains a set of references on the current situation in the member states which identify some of the existing problems, namely: public underfunding in higher education and research; the relationship between the economic costs of school failure and drop-out and their impact on the economic growth of the member states; the approach to lifelong learning; the insufficient network of pre-school education, among other aspects. the irresistible contradiction of this report has to do with the subordination of education and training to the implementation of the 2020 strategy, which, as we know, seeks to establish throughout the member states a school and an education that serve the interests of the market and not the integral training of the individual to enhance his creativity, the raising of his individual and collective consciousness.
in writing. - i support this report because it is necessary to encourage and not restrict access to culture. the european union must create a clearer, simpler and harmonised legal framework for audiovisual works in order to achieve a digital single market. currently, different regulatory systems across the european union prevent creators from benefiting from a consistent and harmonised market, and those who provide them cannot develop effective online services, which ultimately prevents citizens from accessing audiovisual content. without a european cultural market we will never achieve a truly pan-european culture without borders, where the cultural diversity of all member states must be accessible to all european citizens for a true european citizenship.
in writing. − supporting online services while promoting cultural diversity and media pluralism is essential to make the european audiovisual sector more competitive. in the eu, cultural and creative industries account for a significant number of jobs and their economic contribution is around 2.5% of gdp. it is therefore essential to create a system which favours legal supply accessible to all and in which fair and proportionate remuneration is granted to the authors and performers involved, through individual contracts or collective labour agreements. that system should also take into account the need to avoid legal constraints on the negotiation of licences, to ensure net neutrality, to adapt european law to the realities of the internet and the digital age, to ensure legal certainty for rightholders and consumers through better coordination of legal rules between member states, to provide legal certainty for internet users when using streaming services and to integrate new technologies into national education programmes. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures contained in it will contribute to the better promotion of audiovisual works in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the online distribution of audiovisual works in the eu. i believe that the union should aim to create an environment which encourages the development of legal provision accessible to all, innovation and creativity. it is necessary to ensure that legitimate objectives of general interest, such as media pluralism and social diversity, are achieved.
in writing. - the information technology sector is certainly one of the most innovative and technologically advanced. today, with a single click, we can access a wealth of content that most people have no idea about. the arrival of new data transmission technologies such as adsl, optical fibre, cable internet, etc., makes it possible to broadcast endless content, particularly in the form of streaming. the online distribution of audiovisual works in the european union needs to be properly regulated as the crisis we are experiencing requires the search for new employment opportunities to which the cultural and creative industries can respond. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr cavada because i believe that in the digital age, with the new information technologies, the audiovisual sector cannot be a veritable jungle where creators are exploited by unscrupulous producers and/or companies in complete disregard of the rules of the market and with serious damage to copyright, both for creators and for the member states to which they belong.
in writing. - the circulation of works of art and artistic creations, the dissemination of knowledge, the arts and culture are in themselves elements that enhance human and social development. the online distribution of audiovisual works is a strong expression of cultural diffusion. the circulation of artistic and cultural works is clearly an asset for society as a whole - including artists, authors and producers. cultural policy should not be centred on the protection of property rights and the creation of new market segments at the expense of enjoyment, as this report advocates, but on its orientation towards increasingly widespread access to cultural enjoyment as well as to cultural creation itself, while safeguarding copyright. we draw attention to the (intentional) confusion between free and non-commercial sharing and piracy. this confusion has opened the way to a line of hyper-vigilance, of punishment, even when these prove to be detrimental to the free movement of works, involve high costs and prove socially ineffective.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which combines the online distribution of audiovisual works with the need to protect copyright, ensuring legal certainty in the european online space and trying to avoid situations of unequal treatment of rights between online and offline services.
in writing. − over the last decade, the cultural and creative industries have become increasingly dominant in the european economy, employing a significant number of people and representing a value added of 2.5% of gdp, equivalent to the automotive sector. i am voting in favour of this report because it argues that the online distribution of audiovisual products is an excellent opportunity to increase knowledge of european languages, is aimed at strengthening the protection of freedom of expression and thought, and that digital services should be available to all eu citizens. i also think it is important to promote digital skills and media literacy for all eu citizens, and to take account of the geographically more dispersed regions of europe, such as the outermost regions.
in writing. - the circulation of works and creations, the dissemination of knowledge, the arts and culture, is in itself a factor in promoting creativity and raising individual and collective human consciousness. the online distribution of audiovisual works is a strong expression of cultural diffusion. the circulation of artistic and cultural works clearly constitutes a social and economic asset for society as a whole - including artists, authors and producers. cultural policy should not be based on the protection of property rights and the creation of new market segments at the expense of enjoyment, as this report advocates, but on its orientation towards a growing mass of cultural access and enjoyment, while safeguarding intellectual property rights. it is also necessary to draw attention to the (exploited) confusion between free and non-commercial sharing and piracy, which has benefited from the political line of censorship, hyper-vigilance, punishment, even when these prove to be detrimental to the free movement of works, represent high costs and prove socially ineffective.
madam president, lady ashton, as we point out in this report, the consistency and coherence of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) requires political leadership and coordination, ensuring that european policies such as trade and development are in line with cfsp principles, values and strategic interests. ethiopia – an acp partner, a major recipient of eu aid, the second most populous country in africa and headquarters of the african union – has been without a government since the dictator meles zenawi died in july, much earlier than the totalitarian clique announced to the people of ethiopia. this delay allowed them to secretly engineer the perpetuation of their oppressive regime. fortunately yesterday two swedish journalists imprisoned by meles were finally released. but we did not hear the eu pressing for their release, and we did not hear it pressing for the release of all the other thousands of ethiopian political prisoners, including eskinder nega, recipient of pen america’s ‘freedom to write’ award. what can you tell us about your endeavours in that regard? why is the eu so silent or at least so discreet in calling for the liberation of ethiopians? and can you tell us what the eu is doing to press for an inclusive political dialogue involving all opposition parties, including the armed ones, so that ethiopia may remain unified and not fall into violence, so that ethiopia may now find that genuine road to democracy to which its people aspire and not go on oppressed by these totalitarian forces? ethiopia is too important for africa and for the world for us to continue to turn a blind eye to what is going on there. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
answer is "blue cardboard". madam president, my question is precisely: what have we done? i am glad that we have worked for the release of these two swedish journalists. but what about the thousands of journalists and other ethiopian dissidents who are in prison? what are we doing in the face of this situation and to push for a truly democratic solution for ethiopia? ethiopia is too important to be neglected as it is by all of us and by our governments, in particular.
on behalf of the green group in the european parliament ladies and gentlemen, once again we are in one of those typical debates in parliament, a very dilemmatic debate. the situation in syria is complex, the situation in syria is problematic. what do you mean? not to intervene? we don't know what to do. well, it's very easy to know what to do: let's start with the simple things. it's just that we have 200,000 refugees who have left syria. we have the tools to deal with this, it's not true that we don't. the european refugee fund has not been fully spent, we have millions of euros to resettle refugees who are in those camps and to improve the situation in the camps. and then we have the refugees that are inside syria itself, which are the result of past nonsense from the european union because we still have hundreds of thousands of refugees who came from the war in iraq, mainly from minorities: christians, sabeans, mandeans, yazidis, zoroastrians, in the neighborhood of jaramana in damascus. they're 70 kilometers from the lebanese border, it's a humanitarian corridor that can be opened. but there are 200 palestinians in al hol camp, whom we have already promised to resettle. they're six miles from the border. and we can build a humanitarian corridor 10 kilometers from the iraqi border or 30 kilometers from the turkish border. but most of all, mrs ashton, what i want to say to you is that we do not need a humanitarian corridor because the european union has a border with syria. the european union has a maritime border with a member state which is currently holding the presidency of the council. mrs ashton only needs to speak to the presidency of the council, which is cyprus, and tell cyprus that instead of letting arms pass to assad, as they have already done, what cyprus needs to do is open its maritime border to receive refugees in cyprus and then, with a european distribution key as has already been suggested here, distribute these refugees through the european union and prepare and help them so that later, yes, we can support the democratic transition in syria. just talk to the council presidency, which has been inactive.
mr president, i share the feelings of frustration and shame for the inaction of the international community in exercising its responsibility to protect the people of syria, towards whom i feel a great solidarity. however, i understand that this is one area where the high representative cannot move along if our member states are not moving along. the equipment which is necessary to implement a no-fly zone cannot be made by simple statements. therefore, i support working with brahimi, with the oic and with the arab league now to try to find a solution. i am also in favour of supporting and encouraging the opposition to get together so that they will be able to deal with the situation after assad. it is, of course, crucial that assad and his henchmen and women are brought in front of the icc – out of syria and in front of the icc. of course humanitarian support is crucial, but that alone is not enough. we need to send a very clear message to russia, china, brazil, india, and so on – and to their public opinion – that it is outrageous the way their countries are behaving, obstructing the work of the security council and preventing the international community from exercising its responsibility to protect the people of syria.
he asks under the blue card procedure. i would like to ask you a question, because i do not think mrs ashton had the opportunity to listen to it just now. are you aware, of course, that the main suspect in this particular shipment of russian arms to assad is a union government which is currently holding the presidency of the council, the government of cyprus which also has a maritime border with syria? because we don't need humanitarian land corridors if we share a maritime border with syria and that can, instead of letting weapons into syria, can, instead, resettle refugees. i would ask you if you agree with this analysis?
let us, of course, assume something that is more than assumed: the intervention of the al-assad regime is unsustainable, in syria and anywhere else in the world, and the way it has addressed the population, by military means, is absolutely unsustainable. now, what i can't see from the various interventions here is that we need a stronger outside military intervention. let's agree on one thing: there has been foreign military intervention in syria for a long time. what we are doing, moreover, is sharing responsibility for this situation, insofar as we are aggravating an internal conflict between sunnis and shiites. the solution to syria is a political solution, it cannot be any other, and in this i fully support what the high representative has said. we can't say there are good wars and there are bad wars. all wars are bad, all parties involved in this process want to win, but please, the one who is losing is the syrian civilian population. they're the ones who are losing. so let us try to solve it by political means, by giving support to what can be supported, and not by an intervention which will not bring any miraculous solution to a region which, we agree, is at the moment the most problematic situation in the middle east.
we continue to watch helplessly as a people is massacred by murderers, the hired hand of a regime that is cornered and without a future, and that insists on maintaining itself at the cost of the blood of its own citizens. this is an untenable and intolerable situation. and if, legally and institutionally, assad is responsible, is that really so? who is in charge in syria? is it him or is it your father's entourage? you're lying to your people here, too? to make this scenario even more tragic, the strange mosaic of the opposition does not seem to anticipate, in the post-assad era, a solution that is at the same time democratic, tolerant and representative of the various syrian religious, ethnic, social or cultural realities. it is also necessary to condemn in the strongest terms some of the forms of struggle used by the opposition in this fratricidal and irrational war which pits dark idealisms mixed with genuine cries for freedom against a regime which is fighting for its survival. they too should know that war crimes will not be tolerated. the union is once again demonstrating its sensitivity to the plight of the more than 250,000 refugees in neighbouring countries, and is the largest donor of humanitarian aid, and hopes that it is being channelled properly. but i will tell you this: with all the hypocrisy with which the international community has acted, it is only becoming more and more unbelievable. because i'm one of those who refuse to accept that a syrian life is not worth the same as any other life.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me first thank the four rapporteurs, mr gallagher, mr stevenson, mr torvalds and mr salavrakos, for their presentations and for their outstanding work. i would also like to greet commissioner damanaki and her commitment and ambition in advancing the reform of our fisheries policy. it is a great honour for me to be here today to present the council views on the very important topics that we plan to discuss. these include of course, as we said, the reform of the common fisheries policy. i look forward to working very closely with you in the codecision procedure as we advance a very important legislative agenda with a significant impact on eu citizens. therefore i would like to stress my commitment to making our joint work successful and rewarding. concerning the common fisheries policy reform, the council launched its debate horizontally in july last year. that debate took into account the commission communications on which mr haglund and mr salavrakos have prepared reports. since then, the council has focused on the common market organisation and the regulation on the common fisheries policy, reaching a general approach in june of this year. in addition the council agreed on conclusions for the external fisheries policy in march of this year. the council’s position on the common market organisation enlarges the role and responsibility of producer organisations towards promoting more sustainable fishing activities, taking on tasks related to fisheries management and on handling unwanted catches that fishermen will have to land after the implementation of the discard ban. on public market interventions the council agrees with the commission that these interventions should be scaled down. storage aid should be the only remaining intervention and member states are not yet in agreement on whether these should be completely phased out over time. on consumer information the council agrees with the commission that product labels should have to report on whether the fish has been defrosted before marketing, but the council disagrees with the commission’s proposal that the date of catch should be mandatory as well. on the reform in general, the council’s position can be summarised as follows: management of fish stocks needs to achieve maximum sustainable yield by 2015, where possible, and by 2020 at the latest. new multiannual plans should better reflect the interdependence of fish stocks and fisheries and apply the maximum sustainable yield policy to all stocks which are significant in the area of the multiannual plan. discard reductions should be at the forefront of the fisheries reform, accompanied by a landing obligation which will be phased in according to a timetable. i would like to welcome the european parliament’s support for a more regionalised common fisheries policy with better involvement of stakeholders and reinforced advisory councils. the council agrees with this pillar of the reform, and its general approach contains procedures for putting regionalisation into practice as well as reinforcing the role of advisory councils. with regard to transferable fishing concessions, many member states are cautious concerning their effectiveness in fighting over-capacity and are concerned about possible unintended consequences. the general approach therefore foresees the introduction of transferable fishing concessions on a voluntary basis, while improving the existing mechanism to report on over-capacity and to take measures for fleet capacity adjustment. the link between fleet capacity and the european maritime and fisheries fund will be further explored by ministers during their september meeting in two weeks’ time, preparing for a partial general approach at the october council. i do not need to stress that the emff’s role in the reform will now be the focus of our discussions, in particular its importance for growth, boosting aquaculture, creating more jobs and helping to implement the new common fisheries policy. with the new council conclusions on the external dimension, the council has set a more detailed framework for bilateral fisheries agreements, based on sustainability, and has given policy directions for the union’s work in regional and multilateral fisheries organisations. last but not least, as a testimony to the success we can achieve together, i would like to thank mr gallagher for his outstanding work on the trade measures file which is expected to be adopted by our two institutions by the end of this month. this is a far-reaching piece of legislation which will enable the european union to adopt effective measures against third countries allowing non-sustainable fishing. of course the most recent such case that comes to our minds is the situation of the north-east atlantic mackerel stock. we all know that unfortunately the latest attempt to find a solution acceptable to all did not succeed last week in london. i would like to recall the july council’s desire to find a suitable compromise for this very unfortunate situation, but not at any price. thanks to this legislation we now have an additional instrument to use against such non-sustainable management practices.
member of the commission. − mr president, since my time is limited, i would like to focus on certain issues. i hope that you will forgive me for not referring to all the issues that the rapporteurs have already mentioned. i would like to thank everybody – mr gallagher, mr stevenson, mr torvalds and of course mr haglund, who is a former member of this house, and mr salavrakos for their work. i am pleased and i think that the commission can be pleased because all the reports point in the same direction. this is a very important direction for us. it means more sustainable fishing inside and outside the eu. this is the main message of our proposal referring to the reform and i am happy to see this message in all the reports. i would like to comment on some issues now, beginning with mr salavrakos’s report. i would like to welcome the call from this house to restore and maintain stocks above the maximum sustainable yield. this is a very important message for us all and i hope that parliament will uphold this message until the end of the debate and the negotiations. we would like to have the maximum sustainable yield introduced in our final text. it will be very important to have this as part of our new fisheries policy. i would also like to thank mr salavrakos because he has made a very good basis for the further discussion of our proposal for a discard ban. i know that this is a very difficult exercise. we have discussed this in this house on other occasions with many of you. the commission would like to cooperate with the council and i welcome the presence of the council here. if we are going to find a step by step approach or an approach that is gradual for the timeline, we need a clear and binding solution for discard and this is the way we are going to negotiate and discuss and cooperate with everybody around this very important issue. let me now move onto mr torvalds’s and mr haglund’s report. i fully agree that long-term management plans should be the basis of our policy because uncertainty is our enemy. we have to tackle this problem through long-termism instead of going for micro-management and a short-termist approach. but you know that there is a problem here. there is a deadlock between the council and parliament. the commission is here to facilitate, but you must discuss this between you. i am very happy to have you both here and i would like to be completely open. we can do everything but we need really progress, and progress can only be achieved by compromise. if the council stays in the same position and parliament stays in the same position, there will be no progress. nevertheless, this deadlock underlines the situation and the fact that we cannot say that the discard ban is only going to be implemented if we have long-term management plans in place. this very deadlock provides the real answer to how the discard ban will then be taken hostage by this situation. so i would like to urge you to support removing the link between the discard ban and the long-term management plans in this report. we cannot proceed this way. the long-term management plans – and it is not our problem – will take many years to be a reality for all fish stocks. the discard ban is very urgent as mr salavrakos and others have already underlined. and now for mr stevenson’s report. i am really satisfied that the report maintains the drive of our proposal. however, i would like to stress the issue of labelling once more and i would like to underline that i think that we are here to protect the interests of our citizens – not only of our fishermen but also of our consumers – and we have to keep the right balance between these approaches. that is why i think that the consumers have the right to have clear and very comprehensive information about the fish they buy. we have several ways of doing that but i would like to focus mainly on two. firstly, in our opinion, the date of catch is absolutely essential, for consumers. it is absolutely essential for our fishermen, for the small-scale fisheries and also for the fishermen that are in the coastal areas. why? because the date of catch will be a great weapon in their hands. so we are talking here a lot about small-scale fisheries. can we ignore their interests? because this is what is happening. if we are going to remove the date of catch, the fact that information is added in one way or another is not a matter of indifference. the date of catch is very important. let me give you another example. in france, for example, or in spain we have this french or spanish law about the category of fishermen that return to port within 24 hours. a lot of them are not small-scale but they are coastal fisheries and these will use this date of catch to their advantage. i would like to urge you to go for this information for consumers. i would like also to call on the council to reconsider this approach. secondly, i think that prepared and preserved products should show the fish name, origin and production method. i really do not see why the processed products have to miss that information out. why? i think that the consumer has to know. he has to know and he has to make his own decisions. so one last point about eco-labelling. i know that many of you have proposed an eco-labelling approach, so what i can promise is that by 1 january 2015 the commission will make a report. we will come to you with our proposals and then we can decide together if we are going for an eco-labelling approach. lastly, on the trade instrument, i think we have to congratulate mr gallagher because he has done a lot of work and we have succeeded in having this instrument in place as soon as possible. time matters here and i am really grateful that we have gone into this exercise so swiftly. i think that this is a very important proposal by the commission, and i hope that parliament and the council can work together on this. why? because it can contribute a lot to creating a level playing field between our fishermen and the fishermen of other countries, non-eu member states with whom we share the same stocks. we have discussed level playing fields a lot so we have to introduce this trade instrument and i hope that we can do it as soon as possible. i also think that this will reignite confidence in our policy, in the commission services, in the way we treat our fishermen. it is really very important. the commission, of course, is disappointed because we have not reached an agreement with other coastal areas about mackerel stocks. i would just like to say that i am preparing to have everything in order if you vote for this instrument. i have to underline that there are many legal procedures that have to be taken account of. .
ask him about the blue card procedure. mr president, mrs lövin referred to the overcapacity of the european fleet in general terms and referred to this to say that there should be no more aid for fleet renewal. what i want to say to you is that when we talk about the european fleet we are talking about very different things: the fleet of the different countries, of the different member states, for example, has profoundly different average ages, we have countries with an average fleet age of 20 years or more and we have other countries with much younger fleets. i would like to ask you whether you think that all countries should be treated equally and, if so, whether this does not mean condemning to irreversible decline the fishing activity in those countries which today have an average age of the fleet much higher than others.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire. the common organization of the market in fishery products is one of the pillars of the common fisheries policy and the first regulation of the legislative package which will define the future common fisheries policy to be voted on here in parliament. it is clear that the main objectives of the cmo have not yet been achieved, namely to ensure stability in the markets and fair incomes for producers. the crisis of incomes affecting the fisheries sector, which has, let us not be fooled, consequences for the conservation of resources, this crisis of incomes, he said, has various causes, including the way in which the sector is traded today, the unbalanced distribution of added value along the value chain of the sector and the way in which prices are formed at first sale. the irregular nature of the activity, the irregularity of the fisheries, also implies the need for public aid, both national and community, for example by supporting biological stops, and implies the creation of effective market intervention mechanisms which are properly financed from the outset by the community budget. the current situation calls for an ambitious reform of the common fisheries policy, which would strengthen its instruments, the mechanisms for public intervention in the markets, also, i repeat, for reasons of conservation of resources. unfortunately, the commission and the rapporteur are going the opposite way, that of dismantling the few remaining regulatory instruments, more liberalization, the sacrosanct orientation towards the market, that is to say, in the face of the misfortunes of neoliberalism, the fundamentalists who believe in the invisible hand continue to point the same way. this proposal ignores the reality of the sector in the various member states, ignores the very incipient level of organisation of producers in several countries, particularly in the small-scale coastal and artisanal fisheries segments, does not respond to the necessary appreciation of the price of the first sale of fish, and does not thereby contribute to a reduction in pressure on resources. in short, this report unfortunately fails to address the problems of the sector and creates new ones. it was done in the interests of the few against the interests of the many. (the president agreed to answer a question under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8)))
answer under the 'blue card' procedure. our response is very clear and has been expressed in the numerous amendments we have tabled to the various reports under discussion. we believe that local management is in the best interests of the resources and the fishermen. this proximity management we advocate is the antithesis of the centralised management we have had for the last 20 or 30 years, a centralised management which the lisbon treaty has unfortunately deepened by making the management of living marine biological resources an exclusive competence of the european union. we are now faced with the negative consequences of this, firstly because of the limitations which the commission itself says it has in going further in decentralising the common fisheries policy and in promoting the local fisheries management which we advocate.
the committee on regional development has also adopted a number of amendments. - mr president, commissioner, the future common fisheries policy must give priority to its environmental, economic and social sectors, in a synergistic and non-hierarchical way, for the sake of sustainable development and in line with the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of the eu 2020 strategy. as rapporteur for the regi opinion, i would like to highlight the particularity of certain regions, such as the outermost regions, whose economies are heavily dependent on the fisheries sector. in these regions, the reform of the common fisheries policy must seek to ensure the survival and future prosperity of their small-scale and artisanal fishing fleets, thus safeguarding and defending the jobs that depend on them. i agree with the european commission's position that there is a need for an adjustment of this policy and for specific measures which should take account of the different realities of the fisheries and aquaculture sector in the various coastal regions. i would urge that this policy focuses on regionalization as a form of governance through greater involvement of the various stakeholders so that in future it can respond more adequately to the needs and sensitivities of each sea basin.
the reform of the common fisheries policy has now begun to take shape with the presentation and voting of some of the reports under discussion today, for which i congratulate the respective rapporteurs and shadow rapporteurs and thank them for their work. we all know that reform must be deep and that resource sustainability is our lowest common denominator. we also know that the reality of the sector has to change, so the challenges it faces will be tough. it is up to all of us to work towards ensuring that fisheries and their fish stocks are maintained by promoting the sustainability of resources. it is up to us all to respond positively to the different interests at stake, accepting the complexities of dialogue and consensus-building and not, in a complacent and irresponsible way, to pursue the simplest solutions, as seems to be the fashion today, or seeking the applause of the masses, to give in to the populist forms of which we have become hostages. we are members of the committee on fisheries and the commissioner is the one responsible for maritime affairs and fisheries. let us not forget it! and there is no reform, neither superficial nor profound, as we want it to be, that can be done against the sector or without the sector. other politicians have fallen into this error. they lost, they lost in sectors where nothing has changed and we all lost too. an effective reform must involve those it is addressed to in order to win their collaboration, without which it will be doomed to failure. today's reports are a testimony to the change that must be made and to the dialogue that must be held because change is taking place. i hope we can continue along this path.
we are reaching the decisive moment when we are going to shape the new fisheries policy in europe and we cannot fail. the need and urgency to achieve sustainable rebalances in our fisheries resources, but also in the revitalization of our coastal fishing communities and the promotion of their socioeconomic level, in the modernisation of the sector and in the supply of quality food, require courage and bold action as never before. we must therefore make choices and set priorities. i proposed protecting the fragility of my region by proposing that the exploitation of its resources be done with scientific data in mind and by giving priority to our coastal communities in their exploitation and restricting external access beyond the 100 miles or the existing fishing banks there. i have proposed to safeguard the fishing capacity of our important fishing communities by rejecting the proposals for transferable quotas. i have proposed that our communities should be given greater involvement in the management of their fisheries affairs by setting up a regional advisory council of their own, more suitable for the outermost regions, and i hope that this will lead to a better future for us.
ask him about the blue card procedure. given what i'm hearing, i'm forced to ask, we have an industry that has no raw materials to work with. in 2006, the commission envisaged the possibility of imports of 3.3 million tonnes. today it forecasts only - this is also to justify the change - today it forecasts only 1.8 million tonnes and i ask whether even this small amount, which is not even enough for our industry, is even guaranteed? because that is the real issue at this moment in this house.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the introduction of a new system of quotas for the production of milk and milk products. but, commissioner, it is not enough to engage in dialogue if it does not produce results, as has unfortunately happened so far. is it true, commissioner, that after the reform of the sugar sector in 2006, european sugar cane refiners have had increasing difficulties in accessing raw material for processing? is it true or not that the forecasts made in 2005 for the supply of industry were overestimated and are far from being realised, despite the conclusion of new trade agreements with other countries? i can of course accept all the arguments in favour of defending european production, but that is precisely what we are talking about. in some european countries, including my own - portugal - we have industry and jobs which are totally dependent on access to sugarcane for refining under acceptable conditions. we are not faced with a situation which we can treat coldly and tell industry that this is a mere market problem which must be solved by it. we all know that economic operators make decisions on the basis of what the european regulator announces and forecasts, and what is also certain is that in this case the commission's forecasts were anything but accurate. i therefore call on the commission to take the necessary decisions to ensure a balanced functioning of the sectors supplying the european sugar market and to ensure the continuation of the 4,500 jobs in the sugar refining industry in europe, which are so important in the context of the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing.
the last reform of the sugar sector has ruined sugar beet production in portugal. after considerable investments which could have satisfied a significant part of the national sugar consumption, the country became almost totally dependent on sugar cane imports and was subject to the constraints of the international market for this raw material in terms of availability and prices. the effects have been very visible during the last few campaigns. under these new conditions, the investments made by several refining companies are now faced with a shortage of raw materials, which jeopardises full exploitation. the commission has responsibilities in this situation and cannot ignore or conceal them. the import licence auctions did not meet the refiners' needs. in this context, it is imperative to ensure, by means of the recovery of quotas, the right of each country to recover and increase its domestic production of sugar beet, in accordance with its possibilities and potential. but in the meantime and immediately, the deficit in sugarcane imports must also be closed under conditions which will enable refiners to work at full capacity.
the commission has not yet received a reply to the question on the 'blue card' addressed to elena băsescu. do you think that in the face of a situation as serious as that in romania, which is similar to that in portugal, we can actually wait for measures to intervene in the sector until the cap reform is completed together with your document on the single cap, or do we really have to have immediate measures, even if they are provisional, but immediate to serve the sector?
mr president, president barroso did not tackle the issue of tax dumping within the eu, which enables some member states to get richer at the expense of others by functioning as tax havens, stacking in other capitals business profits that are siphoned off from other member states, in order to avoid paying tax at home and therefore escaping from contributing their fair share to national incomes. they serve the same purposes for which switzerland, bermuda and the cayman islands are used as tax havens: to protect profits of tax evasion, other criminality and corruption. that may be legal, but it is also immoral and compromises the integrity of the economic and monetary union. can we complete the emu and the single market and move towards fiscal and banking union? can we restore confidence and credibility in the eu, if it rests upon the crime-abetting foundation of the prevailing wild west of tax dumping?
mr president of the commission, it was very interesting to hear the speech of the man who is at the moment the second most powerful man in the european union after mario draghi, and i say this with absolutely no pleasure, it is sad to see that the destinies of the union are in the hands of an unelected institution. i believe that the president has said a few words in the right direction in building a european democracy. whatever form it takes, we can make european democracy today without changing the treaties and that is why i am proposing something very simple: a democratic pact for european union, not only by asking the european parties to present their candidates but above all by establishing - the commission can already put some money aside for this - by establishing a system of debates in the 27 member states of the european union. the first debate must be in a very specific place, it must be in athens. whoever can hold that debate in athens and then go through all 27 capitals could be his successor.
mr president of the commission, you have come here to tell us that the problem is democracy. i cannot agree more, but the european institutions were the first to tell the citizens that democracy could be dispensed with, that elections could even be dispensed with, that the solutions would be more technocratic than political. he also came to tell us that the problem is political. i can't agree more because, in fact, the crisis didn't happen by the work and grace of the holy spirit, it happened, and it wasn't because there were some bankers who had more eyes than stomachs, but it was because there was a policy and whoever decided that policy said that these bankers and speculators could have more eyes than stomachs and nothing was done about it. he also said that what was at stake here was a question of european solutions. i couldn't agree with you more! but that is contradictory. stop telling the greeks and the portuguese that it's their fault, that they lived above their means. enough, we can't take any more austerity! solidarity does not rhyme with austerity, just as growth does not rhyme with these policies which are absolutely contrary to the construction of europe. so there is no democracy, no politics, no europeanism without citizens and only with markets.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating president barroso on his speech to us here today, on the realism with which he has analysed the situation and on the courage with which he has presented future paths. it is particularly important that the current crisis requires a political solution. that is precisely what the citizens, some protesting, others not, are asking us to do and that is precisely why we must stress that more europe is more europe for the citizens, for the solution of their problems and there are many initiatives that the european commission has put forward and that parliament has approved in the last year. that we need better representation of all citizens and that in this idea of europe for the future we cannot continue with states against states. that's exactly what we've been having. we must make everyone understand that a european solution is needed and that this solution is not against the states because the states are part of europe and that is precisely what i wanted to stress here and say that parliament will be here to support you, mr president.
mr president, you made a good speech, but the european people want more than words. they want action. i would therefore like to know what the commission is going to do in particular to promote economic growth and job creation. and as for tax harmonization, to prevent the rich french from moving to belgium or portuguese entrepreneurs from moving to the netherlands. and what do you think of the social pact that has been proposed here by anna swoboda? so many questions waiting to be answered. as you know, we need more solidarity between states and more solidarity between citizens, more equity. but that's not something you can solve with words. we need action, concrete action. it has also been said here that a new direction is needed. it certainly is! more politics, too! but how does that work, mr president? that's what the citizens expect. we need more leadership, more confidence, more europe, more hope and more democracy, and the role of parliament must be strengthened.
the president of the european commission has come to the european parliament to stage another monumental farce. in the face of the deepening crisis in the eu and the eurozone, in the face of the widespread discredit of the eu and its institutions, barroso has proposed a new federalist, neoliberal and militarist leap forward in the process of economic and political integration. the measures announced do not solve any of the problems facing the workers and peoples of europe. the deep crisis in which the eu is plunged is the result of the policies and guidelines that have been pursued for years. policies that promote growing divergence and inequality between countries, as well as the transfer of wealth from workers to large economic and financial capital. there will be no way out of the crisis if these policies continue. instead of pacing the way and changing direction and policies, barroso is now proposing changes to the eu's institutional architecture. these are changes which are primarily aimed at creating new and more favourable conditions for the continuation of the same policies of disaster and social regression which have been imposed on the workers and peoples with the brutality and consequences that we all know. new institutional coups are announced, giving new and reinforced expression to the growing confrontation of this eu with democracy.
in writing. over the last few years, there has been a great diversity of opinions and positions among the various european political leaders, which has resulted in a delay in the definition of public policies in the various sectoral areas. i fully support the creation of a 'federation of nation states' announced today by the president of the european commission, as well as the strengthening of economic and monetary union and a single supervisory body to ensure increased banking stability in the euro area. i also believe it is essential that the austerity measures adopted by the member states are reconciled with new measures to promote growth and employment, and that concrete actions to stimulate economic recovery and job creation, such as a new industrial policy, strengthening research and innovation activities and encouraging entrepreneurship, should be defined. at a time of great economic and social difficulties, i believe that the european union must take special care of the most vulnerable, reinforcing the sense of solidarity between peoples. finally, i draw the attention of the european commission and its member states to the need to strengthen the eu budget for the period 2014-2020 by adjusting it to the development needs of economies and regions.
mr president, i should just like to second what our president has said about our deep condolences to the american people because of this attack on the consulate in benghazi, where the american ambassador has been killed, and to say that these condolences should also be extended to the brave people of libya who do not deserve the terrible image given by this attack by a few fundamentalists.
rapporteur. − mr president, it is only to draw your attention to the fact that we are going to vote only on the amended version of the proposal as adopted in the committee on international trade (inta). if this chamber adopts our proposal, i will request that the vote on the legislative resolution be postponed in order to allow for negotiations for a late first-reading agreement with the council.
rapporteur. − mr president, i request postponement of the vote on the legislative resolution.
rapporteur. − mr president, it is the same remark as in the previous file, noting that we are voting only on the amended proposal and that, if afterwards we approve this proposal, then i request that the votes on the legislative resolution be postponed.
rapporteur. − mr president, this is to formalise the request for the postponement of the vote on the legislative resolution.
mr president, as regards amendment no 164, it was only because of the delay that it was not put to the vote within the time allowed for it to be put to the vote. i would therefore ask you now to consider it, in amendment no 164, to consider it a roll-call vote.
in writing. - i approve this report because it seeks to strengthen the rights of victims in the european union. i consider the proposal to create a set of common rules for victims of crime in all the member states of the european union to be extremely important and useful, as rights such as the right to be heard, to be informed, to understand and be understood, to have victim support services at one's disposal, to make it easier to identify vulnerable victims and to protect victims during questioning or criminal proceedings are essential. such a set of rules should be able to increase confidence in the criminal and justice systems of all the member states of the european union and at the same time ensure greater judicial cooperation in a climate of mutual understanding and promotion of fundamental european values. for all these reasons, i support this proposal in favour of victims of crime who deserve more help, assistance and information from the competent authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which was presented on the symbolic date of 11 september and which allows us to remember and honour all the victims of crime and their families. europe needs a common and transparent justice system and must ensure that the rights and protection of victims of crime are strengthened. this directive constitutes an important step in the construction of the european area of freedom, security and justice. all victims of crime, regardless of the degree of harm suffered, are covered by this directive and should be offered support and protection in their country as well as in other member states. increased cross-border interinstitutional cooperation, including the effective sharing of information and good practice, is essential.
in writing. − i fully support the establishment of minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, regardless of their nationality or the place where the crime occurred. i consider it of the utmost importance to strengthen the rights of victims in general and in particular of victims with special needs and those who have suffered a particularly horrific experience, as well as to ensure the protection of the privacy of the victim, regardless of the nature of the harm suffered. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this directive is part of a package of legislative measures aimed at strengthening the rights, support and protection of victims of crime in the eu. the eu therefore needs an integrated and coordinated approach in this area which can ensure that the rights and needs of victims of crime in all their aspects can be respected and fulfilled. it thus establishes minimum standards applicable to cases where crimes have been committed in the eu and to criminal proceedings pending in the eu, thus strengthening trust in the criminal justice systems of all member states, which should contribute to more effective judicial cooperation in a climate of mutual trust and should also promote a culture of fundamental rights in the eu. i therefore support this initiative, which should make it possible to strengthen and complement the existing instruments. it is also good that an agreement was reached at first reading. i hope now that the member states can do their part and transpose it in time over the next three years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it sets minimum standards for the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. i consider proposals relating to victim support services to be of high importance, as they are particularly at risk of further harm, intimidation or repeated victimisation during criminal proceedings.
in writing. - i consider it to be elementary justice that, in an area which is unique in so many respects, there are standards of protection for victims which are common to the whole of the union. this protection, as the commission also argues, must be granted irrespective of the nationality of the victim and the place where the crime was committed. in this parliament last december we passed measures which aimed to guarantee all defendants some basic rights in criminal proceedings. the same protection must now be afforded to victims of crime, who for that very reason often feel helpless in the face of a process they do not know and do not understand, especially when such a process is taking place in a foreign country. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of victims of crime is a step in the right direction.
in writing. − the aim of the european union (eu) is to make all citizens feel that they are brothers and sisters in a project of well-being and security. the free movement of persons and goods can only be fully enjoyed if we feel that our rights are safeguarded in any member state where we are. it's vital that we know that wherever we are, there's always someone who cares about us. when a terrorist attack occurs, there is a great concern to identify its perpetrators and bring them to justice. it's all about the criminal. often, it is international organizations that sponsor the defense of terrorists and defend the rights of prisoners. however, most victims and their families are forgotten. which, in addition to being unfair, is inhuman. i welcome the presentation of this proposal which clarifies the rights of citizens when they are victims of gender-based violence, trafficking, rape, terrorism, etc. in any eu member state. i congratulate the rapporteurs on their excellent work on behalf of european citizens, especially those who, for whatever reason - and this can happen to any of us - may become victims. this is how the people's europe is built. a europe that does not abandon us when we are most vulnerable.
in writing. - the report proposes measures to support and protect victims of various forms of violence against people: domestic violence, discrimination on grounds of sex and sexual orientation, trafficking in human beings, exploitation in prostitution, sexual and moral harassment, female genital mutilation, among many others, are some of the forms of violence mentioned. the need for specialised staff involved in these support and protection processes is also mentioned. we value these proposals, although we do not support the proposals for transferring more power to the eu through new legislation. that is why we abstained. some other considerations: we also believe that the right to be heard by minors should be safeguarded. we consider it fair that the offended party should be able to request a review of decisions taken by the competent authorities.
in writing. − i welcome the adoption of this report on the commission proposal for a directive on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, which is part of a package of legislative measures aimed at strengthening the rights of victims in the eu and which includes a proposal for a regulation on the mutual recognition of protection measures in civil matters and a communication entitled 'strengthening the rights of victims in the eu'.
in writing. − strengthening this directive is of the utmost importance to increase the rights, support and protection of eu victims of any crime within the eu. i consider this report to be an important measure that extends the rights of victims of any type of crime by applying minimum standards throughout the eu. i would like to highlight some of the points in the report, namely the protection of victims with special needs, adopting the methods and support taking into account the type of harm suffered, individual assessment and training of the competent bodies, understanding the gender dynamics of victims' rights and increased cooperation and coordination for the protection of victims between member states. this protection must be extended to the family and the support provided must take place throughout the legal process and victims must be informed in a clear and discernible manner. an area of freedom, justice and security must have the citizen at its core.
in writing. − we support this report in its call for integrated protection against the various types of violence against people: domestic violence, discrimination on grounds of sex and sexual orientation, trafficking in human beings, exploitation in prostitution, sexual and moral harassment, female genital mutilation, among many others. however, as a matter of principle and judicial sovereignty, we do not agree with a greater transfer of power in this area to the eu. in many of the areas mentioned, portugal already has adequate legislation, in particular as regards the protection of victims of domestic violence, the right of the child to be heard and the protection of minors. the reality facing portugal is rather that of a lack of public investment in the implementation of practical measures to support the victim.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that the purpose of this commission proposal is to bring council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for certain meat and cereal products into line with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), which gives the commission (ec) the power to adopt the necessary implementing measures and to amend this regulation if the volumes and other conditions relating to the quota system are adjusted, in particular by decisions concluding agreements with third countries. as a member of the european parliament, i support the rapporteur's position that these powers should be brought into line with the post-lisbon regime of delegated and implementing acts by conferring relevant implementing powers on the ec, which should be exercised in accordance with the provisions of regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council, so that there is a real involvement of the european parliament. we must never forget that the european parliament is the institution which represents the citizens of europe, and therefore it must have the power to limit the commission's action.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it allows for a simplification of procedures while safeguarding their rigour and transparency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which aims to bring regulation (ec) no 774/94 into line with the new system of delegated and implementing acts (articles 290 and 291 tfeu). this regulation opens and administers certain community tariff quotas for certain meat and cereal products. it also gives the commission certain powers to adopt the necessary implementing measures and to amend the regulation.
in writing. - council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and wheat mixture with rye, bran, bran and other residues is now subject to amendments with the same objective. the adaptation of community legislation to the treaties on which it is based is necessary both from the point of view of systematization and legal certainty and intelligibility.
in writing. the report, by vital moreira, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for high-quality beef and veal, pigmeat, poultrymeat, wheat and wheat mixture with rye, bran, bran and other residues. the proposed amendments, among other measures, involve greater involvement of the ep in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts, limit the delegation of power to five years tacitly extendable, extend the period for objecting to draft delegated acts from two to four months and require the written procedure. considering that this is a legal matter aimed at adapting the powers conferred on the commission (ec) by regulation (ec) no 774/94 to the post-lisbon treaty regime as regards delegated and implementing acts, powers which must now be exercised in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the main objective of this report is to align the above-mentioned council regulation with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). the rapporteur introduces a number of amendments aimed at limiting the commission's powers in relation to the delegation of powers and advocating greater involvement of the european parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts. we appreciate the provision which gives parliament more time to object to a delegated act. however, this report cannot fail to be examined in its deepest meaning, taking account of the positions of principle on the treaty and its provisions on commercial policy. the lisbon treaty stipulates that trade policy is an exclusive competence of the eu. in other words, the states have been deprived of an essential instrument of economic policy. the interests in the commercial field are, of course, different from country to country, because the respective economies, fragility and potential of each country are different. the overlapping of the interests of the strongest with those of the weakest, in this as in other areas, entails tremendous damage to weaker economies, as is the case with portugal. the effects of free trade policies on the restructuring of important national productive sectors are to be seen...
in writing. - the vote on the legislative proposal relating to this report, which deals with regulation (ec) no 774/94 conferring on the commission the power to adopt the necessary implementing measures and to amend that regulation if the volumes and other conditions relating to the quota system are adjusted, in particular by decisions concluding agreements with third countries, was postponed. these powers should be brought into line with the post-lisbon regime of delegated and implementing acts, which is done in this report, which i would not object to.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to bring council regulation (ec) no 774/94 opening and providing for the administration of certain community tariff quotas for certain meat and cereals products into line with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. that regulation confers on the commission the power to adopt the necessary implementing measures and to amend that regulation in the event of adjustments to the volumes and other conditions relating to the quota system, in particular by decisions concluding agreements with third countries. these powers should be aligned with the system of delegated and implementing acts established by the lisbon treaty, and in this context the rapporteur proposes greater involvement of parliament, limiting the delegation to tacitly extendable five-year periods, extending the period for a possible objection to four months and modifying the implementation of the written procedure. it also advocated that the text of the regulation be made compatible with the 'trade omnibus' regulations.
in writing. - i approve this report because, for reasons of consistency of trade legislation, the rapporteur proposes two amendments to the commission proposal which reflect the changes resulting from the two 'omnibus regulations', in particular with regard to the addition of two new recitals concerning the implementing/delegated acts in the basic legal acts and the involvement of the european parliament. the commission proposal also refers, for the three regulations, to the committee procedure provided for in the adjusted regulation establishing a common organisation of the markets in agricultural products (single cmo regulation). the rapporteur proposes that this reference be deleted and that a new provision on the committee procedure be added to each of the amended regulations. this can ensure the amended application of the written procedure resulting from the trade omnibus regulations. for all these reasons, i would point out once again that a more active role for the european parliament is always more favourable to the european citizens and to the harmonious development of the european union as a whole.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it important to harmonise and strengthen the coherence of european union regulations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which aims to bring three council regulations on the import of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey into line with the post-lisbon regime, with the new system of implementing and delegated acts (articles 290 and 291 tfeu).
in writing. − the question of the scope and definition of the delegated powers and implementing powers conferred on the commission has repeatedly given rise to different interpretations by the european parliament and the european commission. the tension between these bodies is natural and it is normal that parliament should seek to demand that the commission's actions in this context be monitored. turkey is an important partner of the union and the amendments to the regulations should not lead to any change in the privileged development of this relationship, but will bring the legal instruments regulating the import of certain products in line with the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - the report under examination, by vital moreira, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulations (ec) no 2008/97, (ec) no 779/98 and (ec) no 1506/98 on the import of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey, as regards the delegated powers and implementing powers to be conferred on the commission under the post-lisbon treaty regime (tl), more specifically in relation to implementing and delegated acts (articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union - tfeu). the proposed amendments, among other measures, involve greater involvement of the ep in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts, limit the delegation of power to five years tacitly extendable, extend the period for objecting to draft delegated acts from two to four months and require the written procedure. considering that this is a legal matter aimed at bringing the abovementioned regulations into line with the tfeu as regards delegated and implementing acts, powers which must now be exercised in accordance with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the main objective of this report, like others on international trade, is to bring legislation in this area into line with the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon which have an impact on this area. the rapporteur introduces a number of amendments aimed at limiting the commission's powers in relation to the delegation of powers and advocating greater involvement of the european parliament in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts. we appreciate the provision which gives parliament more time to object to a delegated act. but we cannot fail to appreciate the deeper significance of this report, in the light of the principle positions it takes on the treaty and its provisions on trade policy. the lisbon treaty stipulates that trade policy is an exclusive competence of the eu. the interests in the commercial field are, of course, different from country to country, because the respective economies, fragility and potential of each country are different. the overlapping of the interests of the strongest with those of the weakest, in this and other areas, is detrimental to weaker economies, as in the case of portugal, which is in the hands of the commercial interests of the economic groups of the eu powers, especially germany, which are often opposed to the interests of the national productive fabric.
in writing. - the vote on this legislative proposal has been postponed. in any event, i would like to stress that i voted against this report which brings council regulations (ec) no 2008/97, (ec) no 779/98 and (ec) no 1506/98 on the import of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey into line with the post-lisbon regime of delegated and implementing acts.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to harmonise the three council regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the post-lisbon treaty regime for implementing and delegated acts provided for in articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. for reasons of consistency of trade legislation, the rapporteur proposes amendments reflecting the changes resulting from the two 'omnibus regulations', such as increased involvement of the european parliament in the preparation of delegated acts, limiting the delegation of power to the commission to a period of 5 years, tacitly extendable for an equal period, extending the possible extension of the time limit for objecting to a draft delegated act from 2 to 4 months, and changing the detailed rules for the application of the written procedure. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the proposed parallel agreement amending the agreement on mutual recognition (mra) with australia is important as they are agreements on the mutual recognition of conformity assessment of regulated products. the report thus proposes that the arm should seek to remove technical barriers to trade while safeguarding the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties. the arm provides in its main body for general rules on the establishment of conformity assessment bodies as well as specific rules applicable to the various sectors covered.
in writing. − mutual recognition agreements (mras) allow for conformity assessment of regulated products, which give both parties authority to test and certify products based on the other party's regulatory requirements, on their territory and before export. it aims to remove technical barriers to trade while safeguarding health, safety and environmental objectives. this agreement amending the arm with australia was negotiated by the european commission with the aim of simplifying the operation of the arm and entered into force on 1 january 1999. the amendments are intended to allow for increased flexibility in the structure of the sectoral annexes to the arm, to remove unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, to reduce the administrative burden related to the management of the agreement and to facilitate and clarify the functioning of the arm. i therefore support this recommendation calling on parliament to approve the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that it allows for greater flexibility in the structure of the sectoral annexes to the agreement on mutual recognition with australia, removes unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, reduces the administrative burden associated with the management of the agreement and facilitates and clarifies the operation of the arm.
in writing. - i believe that the amendment to the agreement on mutual recognition between the european community and australia will enhance trade relations between these two great continents and remove barriers to greater movement of goods. on the same set of grounds as in my explanation of vote on the mutual recognition agreement with new zealand, i voted in favour of this recommendation (see explanation of vote on report a7-0211/2012).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the 'agreement on mutual recognition in conformity assessment, certificates and marks between the european community and australia', as i believe that these measures will improve and simplify the functioning of the mutual recognition agreement, allowing for greater flexibility and removing unnecessary restrictions. as a result, the functioning of the agreement is facilitated and clarified.
in writing. - australia is a natural partner of the union because of its historical and civilizational affinities with europe, its geostrategic position and its economic potential. given that australia is governed by principles and standards similar to those of the european union in terms of health, safety and the environment and that trade between the two parties should be encouraged and free from unnecessary restrictions, the existence of a mutual recognition agreement on a number of issues is welcomed. i believe that its amendment to further simplify trade is in keeping with the objective of the agreement and opens up new opportunities for european products in australia. i hope that the amendments will serve their purpose.
in writing. the document under consideration, for which mr vital moreira is responsible, concerns a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union (eu) and australia amending the agreement on mutual recognition (mra) in the field of conformity assessment, certificates and markings between the european community and australia. the agreement now being negotiated by the commission aims to simplify the arm which has been in force since 1 january 1999 and whose purpose is to enable the parties to assess the conformity of regulated products. the amendments introduced will increase the flexibility of the structure of sectoral annexes by removing unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties. in addition, the restriction on rules of origin for industrial products, which was considered unnecessary, will be removed, and the text will be updated with regard to institutional and procedural changes, the withdrawal of recognition and suspension of conformity assessment bodies, etc., without neglecting matters relating to health, safety and the environment. i voted in favour of this recommendation because, in addition to having no financial implications, it brings a significant set of improvements to the applicability of the existing mutual recognition agreement.
in writing. - welcoming the rapporteur's report, which seeks to simplify the operation of the mutual recognition agreement with australia, which entered into force on 1 january 1999, a parallel agreement is also proposed which amends the agreement on mutual recognition with new zealand and which is identical and therefore also deserved my vote in favour.
in writing. the agreement amending the mutual recognition agreement with australia was negotiated with the aim of simplifying the operation of the agreement in force since 1 january 1999. the main amendments are aimed at allowing for an increased flexibility in the structure of the sectoral annexes to the agreement on mutual recognition, to remove unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, to reduce the administrative burden related to the management of the agreement and to facilitate and clarify the functioning of the agreement itself. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report because these are important agreements which improve mutual recognition of conformity assessment of regulated products. it is essential to remove technical barriers to trade while safeguarding the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties. i approve the report because it provides for general rules on the establishment of conformity assessment bodies as well as specific rules applicable to the various sectors covered.
in writing. − mutual recognition agreements (mras) allow for conformity assessment of regulated products, which give both parties authority to test and certify products based on the other party's regulatory requirements, on their territory and before export. its aim is to remove technical barriers to trade while safeguarding health, safety and environmental objectives. this agreement amending the arm with new zealand was negotiated by the commission with the aim of simplifying the operation of the arm and entered into force on 1 january 1999. the amendments are intended to allow for increased flexibility in the structure of the sectoral annexes to the arm, to remove unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, to reduce the administrative burden related to the management of the agreement and to facilitate and clarify the functioning of the arm. i therefore support this recommendation calling on parliament to approve the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that it simplifies the operation of the mutual recognition agreement with new zealand, removes technical barriers to trade while safeguarding the health, safety and environmental objectives of both parties , allows for increased flexibility in the structure of the sectoral annexes to the mutual recognition agreement, eliminates unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, reduces the administrative burden related to the management of the agreement and facilitates and clarifies the operation of the arm.
in writing. - mutual recognition agreements (mras) are agreements on the mutual recognition of conformity assessment of regulated products. these agreements give the signatory parties the authority to test and certify products based on the regulatory requirements of the other party, on their territory and before export. these arms are of substantial importance for the framework and stability of eu-new zealand trade relations as they seek to remove technical barriers to trade while safeguarding the public health, safety and environmental protection objectives of both parties. this review of the arm with new zealand introduces greater flexibility in the implementation of the agreements by both parties, reduces the administrative costs related to the management and implementation of the agreements, and further facilitates and clarifies the operational terms of the agreement. i voted in favour of this recommendation because i know that this revision of the agreement will help to strengthen good trade relations with a country which, although at our opposite ends, is historically and culturally linked to our continent.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'agreement on mutual recognition in conformity assessment between the european community and new zealand', as it aims to improve and simplify the operation of the mutual recognition agreement by allowing greater flexibility, removing unnecessary restrictions and facilitating the operation of the agreement.
in writing. - as with australia, the amendment to the agreement on mutual recognition between the european community and new zealand seeks to enhance trade relations between the two and to remove unnecessary barriers to the movement of goods. i hope that these amendments will enable the desired objective to be achieved and that, despite the distance, the proximity of civilisation and the common interests will bring the european union and new zealand ever closer together. we would all benefit from this closer approach.
in writing. the document under consideration, for which mr vital moreira is responsible, concerns a proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of an agreement between the european union (eu) and new zealand amending the agreement on mutual recognition in the field of conformity assessment between the european community and new zealand. the agreement now being negotiated by the commission aims to simplify the arm which has been in force since 1 january 1999 and whose purpose is to enable the parties to assess the conformity of regulated products. the amendments introduced will increase the flexibility of the structure of sectoral annexes by removing unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties. in addition, the restriction on rules of origin for industrial products, which was considered unnecessary, will be removed, and the text will be updated with regard to institutional and procedural changes, the withdrawal of recognition and suspension of conformity assessment bodies, etc., without neglecting matters relating to health, safety and the environment. i voted in favour of this recommendation because, in addition to having no financial implications, it brings a significant set of improvements to the applicability of the existing mutual recognition agreement.
in writing. - having regard to the favourable report of the committee on international trade, i voted in favour of this european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and new zealand amending the agreement on mutual recognition in relation to conformity assessment between the european community and new zealand.
in writing. − the agreement amending the mutual recognition agreement with new zealand was negotiated with the aim of simplifying the operation of the agreement in force since 1 january 1999. the main amendments are aimed at allowing for an increased flexibility in the structure of the sectoral annexes to the agreement on mutual recognition, to remove unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, to reduce the administrative burden related to the management of the agreement and to facilitate and clarify the functioning of the agreement itself. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i support this report, firstly for reasons of fairness, because i do not consider it fair that while there are regions like mine that practice sustainable fishing, at the same time other member states do not meet the same requirements and may even put the stocks of different european marine regions at risk. any blatant lack of good will to work in obedience to agreed measures must be counterbalanced by firm action. as a lucrative destination market for fishery products, the eu has a special responsibility to safeguard the sustainability of the sector and to respect the shared management of straddling and highly migratory fish stocks. it is therefore necessary to provide the eu with effective means to act against any state that is unwilling to assume this responsibility, or that does not cooperate in the adoption and implementation of agreed management measures to discourage unsustainable fishing. i therefore wholeheartedly support the commission's proposal to use trade and other measures in situations similar to those described, but also to send a clear political message that includes a clearer approach and stronger and more effective measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu has a special responsibility to safeguard the sustainability of the fisheries sector and to respect the shared management of highly migratory and straddling fish stocks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'measures against countries engaging in unsustainable fishing for the conservation of fish stocks', as i considered it necessary to provide the eu with the means to take effective action against states which do not adopt the agreed management measures, and thus discourage the continuation of this unsustainable fishing.
in writing. − the organisation and functioning of fisheries and aquaculture product markets have implications for the sustainability of fisheries resources and marine ecosystems, as well as for public health and food security. the new provisions are intended to strengthen the role of producer organisations and to soften the marketing rules for fresh produce. the current consumer information requirements for fresh products (trade name, scientific name, indication of catch or production area, words 'caught' or 'cultivated', defrosted if applicable) are supplemented by the indication of the date of catch or production; or the word 'fresh' or 'frozen'.
in writing. - we all know that the planet's resources are not inexhaustible. this aspect becomes much more relevant when we are talking about resources directly linked to human food. the increase in the world population requires more and more resources and we cannot allow the degradation of ecosystems. the report by pat the cope gallagher, an expert on responsibility, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of certain measures to states which engage in (or permit) fishing which is not environmentally sustainable and which jeopardises the maintenance of fish stocks. the absence of a sustainable fisheries policy, particularly as regards the capture of carp, is at issue. it is not acceptable what has happened to iceland (and others) which has unilaterally increased its catches. there must be agreement between the member states, because each one cannot do as it pleases. i voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposals because i agree that fishing, both within and outside the european union, must be sustainable.
in writing. − the united nations convention on the law of the sea and the united nations fish stocks agreement require coastal states and states whose fleets fish in adjacent high seas fish stocks to cooperate in managing, in a responsible manner, highly migratory and transboundary fish stocks and stocks in adjacent eezs in order to ensure their long-term sustainability, either through direct mutual consultation or through the regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos). as a relevant and lucrative destination market for fishery products, the eu has a special responsibility to ensure that this cooperation obligation is fulfilled. this proposal aims to establish a rapid and effective mechanism to enable trade-related and other types of measures to be used against states which do not respect their obligations. we are following the rapporteur's proposals. the trade measures to be implemented should not be limited to imports of 'stocks of common interest' and 'associated species', but should apply to all imports of fish and fishery products of all species originating in countries that accept the existence of unsustainable fishing.
in writing. − responsible management and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources should be a priority for the eu and all member states. in this context, the protection and conservation of stocks plays a crucial role. in particular, the eu has a special responsibility to safeguard the shared management of highly migratory and transboundary fish stocks. the eu therefore needs effective means to act against states that do not cooperate in the adoption and implementation of agreed management measures to discourage irresponsible and unsustainable fishing activities. i agree with the reasons given and therefore voted in favour of this report on the adoption of measures against countries which allow unsustainable fishing.
in writing. − the european union must have an appropriate legal instrument to enable it to react to the behaviour of states that do not cooperate with the rules of the united nations convention on the law of the sea and the united nations fish stocks agreement, as well as with the requirements imposed by regional fisheries management organisations for the responsible management of fish stocks. the european union has a special responsibility to safeguard the sustainability of the sector and to observe the shared management of highly migratory and transboundary fish stocks and should therefore be provided with effective means to act. those measures should apply to all imports of fish and fishery products of all species originating in countries that accept the existence of unsustainable fishing.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that the reformed cfp should strengthen producer organisations so that they play a more significant role in the day-to-day management of fisheries under a more regionalised system, and that the creation of transnational producer organisations should be encouraged with a view to creating a level playing field for all those involved in the fisheries sector. the future cfp must also contribute positively to a dynamic development of the eu aquaculture sector to better respond to the increase in demand for fish in a context of declining wild fish stocks. the use of modern technology to improve market intelligence should be promoted in the framework of the future european fisheries and maritime fund. the proposed intervention mechanism on the eu market is limited to a single storage system. however, any system which interferes with the free market must be treated with great care and must be implemented on a cooperative basis involving all the ops and allowing the greatest possible flexibility, while protecting the interests of the marine and island regions heavily dependent on fisheries, in particular the outermost regions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to strengthen and internationalise producer organisations (po), which counterbalance the power of retailers and are effective in ensuring realistic prices for the catches landed by their members.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to stress the importance of this own-initiative report as a reflection of the european parliament's (ep) opinion on the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) currently under way. the commission will not vote on the regulation of the ep and the council on the reform of the cfp until next november (as is expected). however, this method of presenting 'early reports', although more laborious and potentially more time-consuming, seems to me to be quite effective in 'post-lisbon' europe, where the search for intra- and interinstitutional consensus has become paramount so that the legislative documents produced can actually see the 'light of day' within a reasonable time. that said, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent work he has done and wish my colleague ulrike rodust (rapporteur on the joint regulation) the best of luck in the complex work she is doing. as a personal note on this reform, and although i am not a member of the committee on fisheries, i would just like to highlight: the absolute importance of pursuing the objective of 'balancing the three dimensions of the cfp' - social, environmental and economic; the maintenance of support for fleet renewal and the search for a more regionalised model for the management of the cfp.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, as i consider it important that the future common organisation of the markets, within the framework of a common fisheries policy, should make a positive contribution to the dynamic development of the eu aquaculture sector. the cmo will thus be better able to respond to the increase in demand for fish in a context of declining wild fish stocks. finally, it is essential that a level playing field be maintained between eu fishery products and products imported from outside the eu.
in writing. - for the european union, and especially for a country like portugal, with a maritime and fishing vocation, with a strong fishing and canning industry, it is essential to maintain fishing as a viable and sustainable economic activity. portugal needs fisheries and as such it needs the sea to maintain its capacity to give us fish and for species to maintain their reproductive capacity intact. it is therefore clear to me that there must be an appropriate legal instrument to prevent behaviour which will result in a considerable depletion of fish stocks, with significant losses for fishing activity in the union.
in writing. − the european citizen, as a result of his environmental awareness, is a demanding consumer who is aware of his rights. it is therefore essential that the european union, also in this sector, adopt measures which are in breach of its marketing standards. this report, by mr struan stevenson, analyses the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down the common organisation of the market in fishery and aquaculture products. first, very special attention should be paid to the information provided to the consumer by clear, simple but informative labelling. the citizen must know the origin of the product, the date of catch, thawing, supply chains and that its catch respects sustainable fishing practices; secondly, fishermen's organisations should be supported and sustainable fishing practices rewarded; in addition, it is necessary to promote sustainable management of fisheries resources by avoiding the capture of juvenile species and their subsequent return to the marine environment. last but not least, a fair income for fishermen must be ensured, who must be supported in stabilising stocks with a high degree of predictability.
in writing. - the current fisheries cmo is far from guaranteeing stability in fisheries markets and fair incomes for producers. in this context, a thorough and ambitious reform of the cmo was needed, strengthening public intervention and market regulation instruments with a view to ensuring the sector's income, the stability of the markets, improving the marketing of fishery products and increasing their value added, with an increase in the prices at first sale of fish. this report points to a weakening of the current cmos, dismantling some of the (few) remaining regulatory instruments. the aim is to achieve increasing liberalization and 'market orientation'. in the current context of the sector, this path will prove disastrous for numerous segments of the fleet, especially for small-scale fishing segments. we regret the rejection of many of our proposals, such as: • adopting measures to increase the price at first sale of fish, such as the introduction of maximum intermediation margins along the value chain of the sector; • introducing a 'management option' which would allow member states to retain the power to take key decisions (now vested in producer organisations) at the level of their administration. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. the common market organisation (cmo) is a key component of the common fisheries policy (cfp). in this report particular emphasis has been placed on the future role and objectives of producer organisations, which are expected to play a more significant role in fisheries management and therefore need tools to regulate the activity of their members more effectively. labelling is another key issue in this report, with the argument that the consumer has a right to better and clearer information about the fishery products he buys, in particular the dates of catch and landing. i voted in favour of this report but disagreed with the inclusion of the date of the fish catch. i believe that more important than the date of the catch is the proper conservation of the fish and the maintenance of its quality, both on board and after landing.
in writing. − in the context of the reform of the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, special emphasis is placed on the future role and objectives of producer organisations. producer organisations should play a more significant role in the day-to-day management of fisheries, within a more regionalised system, and their internationalisation or the creation of transnational associations should be encouraged. the future common market organisation must also contribute positively to a dynamic development of the eu aquaculture sector to better respond to the increase in demand for fish in a context of declining wild fish stocks, and the use of technology should be promoted in the framework of the future european fisheries and maritime affairs fund. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i support the present proposal set out in this report, considering it important to recognise the specificities of the development and implementation of the different components of the union's external action, notably the cfsp (and its csdp), but also the neighbourhood policy, development policy and international trade. this comprehensive approach is essential to build a strategic and coherent approach to pursuing the union's external policy. the 2010 council report includes important steps towards mapping the union's foreign policy priorities in a strategic and forward-looking framework. however, the report shows that it does not live up to the ambitions of the lisbon treaty in important respects, for example, it does not give a sense of the priorities or strategic orientations of the cfsp. i believe that while this report is intended to be ambitious and politically strategic, it must also be realistic and pragmatic. in fact, this report should be a contribution to the definition of the eu's external policy and to the establishment of benchmarks to monitor and evaluate progress over the coming years.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the new strategic and forward-looking approach to the european union's foreign policy proposed in the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy, as it helps to define a new strategic and forward-looking approach to the european union's foreign policy. i believe that this represents a higher level of strategic ambition and an essential framework for the development of a comprehensive, coherent and consistent approach to the union's foreign policy.
in writing. the minority opinion presented in mr brok's report by members of the gue group is an excellent list of steps which the european union must not take, otherwise it will become not only irrelevant but above all vulnerable: to withdraw from nato, to abandon the military component and cut defence spending, to close all military bases in europe, to disarm completely and to refrain from international intervention whenever the main instruments of international law and the most relevant international bodies so recommend. fortunately, the majority in this house thinks differently, does not give up trying to protect its citizens and recognizes the transatlantic partnership which saved us from sovietism as the best guarantee of common security. the union cannot therefore refrain from seeking to assume a more leading, consistent and coherent role at this level. doing so requires pragmatism and rigor but also ambition.
in writing. - global security is a matter of concern to all properly informed citizens, especially when images such as the holocaust or the attacks of 11 september are present in our memory, both individually and collectively, to mention just two cases. even when nothing suggests it, the threat of yet another conflict between nations looms large: the island dispute between china and japan. this situation means that we are giving a key role to the foreign policy and security of europeans. i voted in favour of the report by mr elmar brok on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy (cfsp), which stresses the need for the european union (eu) to speak with one voice on this matter, encourages eu collaboration with the countries of the 'arab spring', promotes respect for human rights in exchange for financial support, stresses cooperation with the countries to the east and looks out for military and economic cooperation, drawing attention to the fact that today wars are not won with 'tanks' but with financial measures.
in writing. - there is a lot to say about this report and there are many reasons why we should vote against it. the report, which paves the way for the lisbon treaty, proposes to strengthen the eu's strategic partnership with nato, confirming the eu as the european pillar of this organisation and advocating the sharing and mutualisation of military resources, with the european defence agency playing the leading role. at the same time as hard-won rights are being taken away from workers and peoples, new steps are being taken in the militarization of the eu, which is intended to be adequately financed in accordance with its ambitions. after having defended the military attack on libya, the ambition of the majority in parliament is now to go beyond the ongoing financial and military support to terrorist groups in syria and to attack that country militarily. they insist on the eu's old ambition to secure a permanent seat on the reformed un security council; not to defend peace, but to operationalize the responsibility to protect, i.e. the implementation of so-called preventive wars.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which marks a new starting point for the annual report on the union's common foreign and security policy and which seeks to be the european parliament's contribution to defining a new strategic and forward-looking approach to the european union's foreign policy. i agree with the rapporteur that there is a need for quality leadership, courage and decisive and timely action, combined with a leadership approach to the european neighbourhood policy as a strategic principle for the union.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's citizens are able to access the information they need to make decisions on the eu's external borders. it therefore wants to present a constructive criticism that points out the errors and problems and, at the same time, takes account of the current financial constraints in the member states. the treaty of lisbon has strengthened the role of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp). the creation of the high representative is intended to give coherence and effectiveness to the eu's foreign policy and to avoid overlaps between the different member states. however, there are still gaps in terms of cooperation and the instruments to be used. the high representative needs to be given the necessary competence to enable the eu to respond with one voice, to set realistic and pragmatic priorities and to reflect on the financial and diplomatic resources needed for the eeas. we cannot have a global europe without coherence, without effectiveness and without a clear strategy and objectives.
in writing. - in a period of deepening crisis of capitalism, here is another demonstration of how militarism, meddling and disregard for national sovereignty are the option for conquering markets and dominating natural and energy resources that are fundamental to the great powers of the eu. the report advances the idea of strengthening the eu's strategic partnership with nato, confirming the eu as the european pillar of this organisation and advocating the 'sharing and mutualisation' of military means, with the european defence agency playing the leading role here. in a framework which cuts across the most essential rights of workers and peoples, it is claimed that the militarisation of the eu should be 'adequately financed' in accordance with its ambitions. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the middle east calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of terrorism and to ensure that the situation in the middle east is not further destabilised. it is again referring to the eu's old ambition to secure a permanent seat on the reformed un security council not to defend peace, but to operationalize the 'responsibility to protect', i.e. the implementation of so-called preventive wars.
in writing. - i approve this report. long-term management plans should be drawn up for the whole of the eu fisheries and/or fishing regions, which should take into account the specificities of the different european seas and provide for the application of a different regime to small-scale coastal fishing. the current management system for stocks has not resulted in healthier stocks, thus hindering the overall objective of finding an appropriate balance between ecological and economic aspects. on the basis of the principle that long-term management plans are successful, the council should follow the objectives and in particular the rules on farm control laid down by the co-legislators in those management plans, on the basis of the best scientific advice and applying the precautionary principle. the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) must take this into account.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to improve the conservation and recovery of stocks in eu waters, to reduce the capacity of fleets and to extend the fishing limitation regime from 12 nautical miles to 10-20 miles, thus allowing more effective achievement of objectives in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy' for advocating the need for an effective eu-wide non-refoulement policy, strengthening the powers of the community fisheries control agency (cfp) to ensure a fair system of rules and penalties.
in writing. − the report that the ec is required to submit to the european parliament and the council on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and member states' measures to adjust fishing capacity before the end of 2012 indicates that the efforts of member states to improve conservation and to restore stocks have not been sufficient. the fishing restrictions in the 12 nautical mile zone were already working well. it is of course important that the commission should provide for the establishment of long-term management plans for the whole of the eu's commercial fisheries. it would therefore be advisable to consider the possibility of grouping fisheries according to fishing regions by means of a regionalisation of the common fisheries policy, which should take account of the specific features of the different european seas and the situation of small-scale fishing in the different areas, so as to bring management measures as close as possible to the real situations of the various fleets.
in writing. − the report by carl haglund focuses on the report that the commission is required to submit before the end of 2012 to the european parliament (ep) and the council under regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy (cfp) and on the measures implemented by the member states with regard to adjustment of fishing capacity. although the data available are insufficient for the preparation of long-term management plans, further studies are essential , they nevertheless allow us to conclude that in many cases there is overfishing, with discards and by-catches being factors detrimental to the sustainability of the sector. in addition, the european union should not enter into cooperation agreements with countries that do not respect sustainable fishing practices. i would like to draw attention to the need to give special attention to the outermost regions in order to safeguard their small fleets and coastal and small-scale fisheries. i hope that the management plans will be implemented as soon as possible so that we can have a sustainable fisheries regime.
in writing. - this report aims to address the measures taken by member states to improve the conservation of fisheries resources and to restore stocks, but also the fishing limitation regime in the 12 nautical mile zone. the report is generally negative. the commission is called upon to introduce a system of sanctions against member states which do not comply with their obligations to collect and transmit data in a context where community responsibility (including funding) for these obligations is manifestly insufficient. the proposal is to impose sanctions, such as the freezing of funds from the european maritime and fisheries fund (emff), on member states which do not meet the objectives of reducing the level of sustainable capacity for each fishery. the introduction of transferable fishing licences is supported. we have tabled several dozen amendments in the committee on fisheries which have been overwhelmingly rejected. for these reasons, we voted against.
in writing. − the report on reporting obligations for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources has identified important issues on issues such as the adjustment of the fishing capacity of the european fleet, as well as on the conservation and sustainability of fisheries resources. the report focused on very relevant issues such as the need to strike a balance between ecological and economic aspects, the need to adopt an ecosystem approach to find appropriate solutions for the management of mixed fisheries, the need to promote a gradual reduction in unwanted by-catches and discards, and the need to improve the quality and reliability of the data needed to support sound scientific advice. because of the importance of these issues, and because i consider the document to be fairly balanced, i voted in favour of this report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources.
in writing. − this document refers to the report to be submitted by the european commission to the european parliament and the council on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and member states' measures to adjust fishing capacity before the end of 2012. in addition, it was also required to submit a report on the fishing restrictions in the 12 nautical mile zone by 31 december 2011. the commission considers that the efforts made by member states to improve conservation and restore stocks have been insufficient and that little progress has been made in reducing fleet capacity. the fishing limitation regime in the 12 nautical mile zone was working well and could be extended to a 10-20 mile regime. in its position, parliament states that despite the general acceptance of multiannual recovery plans, overfishing has not been sufficiently reduced. it considers that a general definition of overcapacity at european level and a specific definition at regional level is necessary. it also recognises that the principle of relative stability has led member states to focus on their national share rather than on collective long-term benefits.
in writing. - i approve this report, but i would like to stress the importance of the multi-functionality of fisheries for coastal regions. there is a clear need for specific measures in certain regions, such as island regions and the outermost regions. the cfp must also be a holistic, transversal and inclusive policy, which is not the case, since some european territories do not share the same sea basins as the european continent. the outermost regions should therefore be grouped and represented in a specific advisory committee set up for this purpose, and restrictive measures under the common fisheries policy should be adapted to the real state of fisheries resources. for these reasons, it is necessary to maintain a financial instrument to support the sector, which retains the principle of increasing the intensity of support for actions co-financed in the outermost regions. i would also point out that transferable fishing concessions could lead to the concentration of fishing rights in a small number of operators and, consequently, to the disappearance of many small fishing enterprises.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider that an ambitious and rigorous reform of the cfp (wild fisheries and aquaculture) is necessary if the eu is to ensure long-term environmental sustainability, which is a prerequisite for ensuring the economic and social viability of the eu fisheries sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the reform of the common fisheries policy because it includes measures to ensure the public supply of fish but also the development of coastal communities, helping to promote employment and the improvement of the living conditions of fishermen, while seeking to establish resources on a sustainable basis for their own conservation. i believe that any fisheries policy must take account of a multiplicity of social, environmental and economic dimensions which require an integrated and balanced approach. these conditions are incompatible with a view which hierarchises them according to an a priori definition of priorities.
in writing. - fisheries and the oceans provide food and livelihoods for more than 500 million people worldwide. it would therefore be useful for the commission to draw up, at the outset, an eu-wide definition of overcapacity that covers regional definitions and takes into account local specificities. the cfp, when revised, should not be removed from its socioeconomic and environmental context and should help to improve the living standards of communities dependent on fishing and to promote better working conditions for fishermen.
in writing. - deregulation in the fisheries sector makes the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) urgent. this cannot be postponed any longer. we must preserve our fisheries resources by protecting stocks. however, this reform cannot be carried out without involving the sector or against it, since we must promote the sustainability of resources but also guarantee jobs and the survival of small fishing communities, which are often responsible for maintaining the biodiversity of the planet. the existence of medium and long-term management plans, the prohibition of juvenile catches and the consequent return of fish to the aquatic environment, the prohibition of flag changes to countries that allow non-sustainable fishing, international cooperation, especially in the field of surveillance, the involvement of fishermen's organisations and the existence of scientific studies on stocks, promote a sustainable fisheries regime and should be taken into account in the next cfp. i voted in favour of this report because we need a cfp that preserves fisheries resources but also promotes social sustainability, especially at a time of crisis when job creation is not abundant.
in writing. - this report contained and still contains positive aspects, which we value. some of them are the result of proposals made by our group in the committee on fisheries, such as: rejecting the privatisation of fisheries resources; taking a broader view of the objectives of a fisheries policy, including the social and economic aspects; increasing community co-financing for the acquisition of data on the state of resources. unfortunately, other proposals were weakened or even withdrawn in this vote in plenary. this is the case for aid for the renewal and modernisation of fishing fleets. the report rejects the compulsory nature of transferable fishing licences, as proposed by the commission. the report falls far short of what is needed in criticizing a centralised cfp, which has prevailed for the last two decades, and in highlighting the value of a local management approach that goes beyond the (inconsequential) proposals for 'regionalization' made by the commission and the greater involvement of the jrcs. unfortunately, our proposals in this area, such as the extension of the reserve area of exclusive access to member states' fleets, have not been accepted. it is the failings and contradictions that justified our abstention.
in writing. − this general communication on the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) was structured around a number of themes relating to the objectives of the reform, namely environmental sustainability (measures for the conservation of marine biological resources, monitoring and collection of quality data), socioeconomic sustainability (future of jobs in the fisheries and aquaculture sectors) and regionalisation. i voted in favour of two amendments to this report which i consider to be important, namely the possibility of renewing the fleet (under certain specific conditions and corresponding to an adaptation of vessels to the available resources, ensuring the sustainability of their exploitation) and the possibility of co-financing up to 75% in support of the collection and processing of scientific data (which could contribute significantly to a more robust and efficient fisheries management). overall, i voted in favour of this general communication report on the reform of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - i believe that the future common fisheries policy must give priority to its environmental, economic, social and cultural pillars, in a non-hierarchical and synergistic way, in the interests of sustainable development. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development, i support the need for specific measures for certain regions in the context of this reform, such as the outermost regions, whose economies are heavily dependent on the fisheries sector, which is why the reform of fisheries must be oriented in these regions towards ensuring the survival and prosperity of small-scale and artisanal fisheries and towards objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion, such as the promotion of employment. i voted in favour of the report in the european parliament and i hope that in future this policy will respond more adequately to the needs and sensitivities of each sea basin.
mr president, what has happened in romania is serious and must be taken seriously. the european union cannot allow any kind of interference with the independence of the judiciary, for example, with the separation of powers, it cannot allow any kind of suspicion to be cast on fundamental rights in the member states. the citizens of the european union require that kind of trust. it is in the spirit of our treaties, it is in the very wording of article 2 of our treaties, and we must never forget that a judge from a member state of the european union, a romanian judge, is also a european judge who will judge other european citizens. for the sake of mutual trust, we must be able to rely on the separation of powers in all the member states. ladies and gentlemen, i am the rapporteur for fundamental rights in hungary. the hungarian citizens, the hungarian government, the journalists, they all ask me whether we will have the same kind of weights and measures as other member states of the european union and they are right. there must be no discrimination. what i think is essential is that this house and the european commission should no longer live under the illusion that, once a member state joins the european union, it immediately has a charter of good conduct in fundamental rights. this could never be the case and that would put an end to the asymmetry in which violations of budgetary matters lead to visits by the troika to the countries of the union and violations of fundamental rights go unaddressed, without any kind of permanent monitoring by the member states of the european union. that is what we need to think about and institute.
i welcome the proposal you have put forward and i will apologise in advance because i will not be able to hear your answers because of scheduling conflicts, but rest assured that i will look at your answer very carefully because i have someone to listen to you. but i said i welcomed the offer. the only proposal to sin for anything is for being late and therefore good luck for its development. however, it is the details that are at stake, and as you know, this parliament had already asked for many of these initiatives to be taken in 2010, and they have not been taken until now. there are two objectives we want to achieve. the first is to secure the deposits of citizens. the second objective is that, in the event of a bank's failure, the situation which has existed up to now of the citizens being the ones to pay for that failure should be put to an end. this is the most vague aspect of the proposal which you have put before us. how do you resolve a bank that goes bankrupt? what is the timetable for the creation of the new authority that will manage this process? how can the european central bank's prudential powers be transferred to the new entity? this dimension of managing the bankruptcy of a bank without charging the citizens is a fundamental factor in the viability of this proposal and, finally, how to ensure that the european central bank has some power of appeal, that is, that the citizen or national supervisors can appeal the decisions of the european central bank which at the moment has absolutely intrusive and greater powers and probably will have to be that way. finally, between the practical supervision of the ecb and the other countries, i will finish now, mr president, and the countries outside the euro area, how to ensure that there are no imbalances in the application of the relevant regulation.
i am very much in agreement with the concern that was expressed here at the beginning, mr president, commissioner, about the democratic legitimacy and democratic control that are linked to this proposal for a banking union and banking supervision, because a key question remains to be clarified and resolved, namely the role of parliament, the only institution democratically elected by the citizens directly. but there's another concern that i have as well, which is a deeper concern and it has to do with this: the instruments of monetary policy are controlled by the european union, monetary policy is the responsibility of the european union, banking supervision is also the responsibility of the european union, and yet if everything goes wrong, if banks go bankrupt, the responsibility for paying for that bankruptcy remains with the taxpayers of the national states, it remains a national responsibility. this is not a minor problem, it is a fundamental problem which is not being solved, and finally i would just like to say that it is not being solved either that we continue to tie monetary policy to what is a secondary issue in the context in which we live, which is inflation, and not to job creation and growth, as it should be.
economic and monetary union has deprived the euro-zone states of monetary policy. the dogmas of monetarist orthodoxy severely limit it to budgetary and fiscal policy. they are all fundamental instruments for adapting public policies to the needs of each country and the aspirations of each people. needs that are, of course, diverse because their situation is diverse. now they want to take away the control of the states over the supervision and regulation of the financial sector. it would be another area which would no longer be subject to democratic public control and scrutiny but would come under the control of the ecb, an institution which, in the name of a miraculous independence, has fulfilled the triple role of throwing the states into the clutches of financial speculators, reducing the costs of refinancing large capital and promoting the exploitation of labour by means of wage compression. this false independence is really a total dependence on the financial system and its predatory interests. the people are being gradually deprived of the fundamental instruments for determining their future... (the president cut off the speaker)
this legislative initiative by the commission raises two questions. the main question is whether the union should withdraw the unilateral trade preferences enjoyed by the acp countries on a transitional basis to those countries among them which do not negotiate and ratify economic partnership agreements with the european union, as provided for in the cotonou agreement. subsidiary question: what timeframe should we give the countries concerned to negotiate and conclude the agreements in question, since the 2007 regulation unfortunately contained no deadline. the answer to the question at issue can only be a decidedly positive one. first, the 2007 regulation was obviously transitional; second, the wto waiver expired in 2007 and therefore the trade preferences in question are unlawful and in breach of the union's obligations under the world trade organisation; thirdly, to maintain these unilateral trade preferences would be unfair both to the least developed non-acp countries, which do not enjoy the same preferential treatment, and to those acp countries which have already concluded economic partnership agreements with the union. the commission also found that the commission had not provided any evidence that the measures were necessary to restore the viability of the union industry. it is a more balanced and reasonable solution in principle. on the other hand, proposals to extend this deadline even further, extending the existing illegal and unfair situation excessively, are no longer worth supporting. in short, the martin report must be approved in its entirety by this house.
mr president, commissioner, you asked why we should give some countries more time to fulfil their commitments for the signing of the association agreements. i think the answer is that not everyone is prepared to do so, because they have come from a very difficult political and economic situation. i would ask you: are we interested in making these countries move forward, or are we leaving them in a more precarious situation than they could have now? i think we're interested in it. i therefore believe that the 2016 date we are proposing would enable them to fulfil their commitments and, at the same time, would give greater legal certainty to european and national companies, which must contribute to their development. i would also say that these two more years do not represent a significant change in relation to our commitments to the wto. i shall therefore vote in favour of this proposal for a two-year extension tomorrow and i would like you to take this into account, commissioner.
this proposal for a regulation is an example of the intolerable process of intimidation and blackmail aimed at forcing the signature of the so-called economic partnership agreements by the acp countries. the commission's strategy was to divide and conquer. the acp countries must be united by putting pressure on each of them individually, and then reap the benefits of blackmail. the acp countries are not only free trade agreements, but also the only ones, and the epas would have profoundly negative consequences for them, which would justify their reluctance to sign them. they are fair, understandable and must be respected. it is necessary to strengthen relations of friendship and cooperation with these countries, relations which contribute to their free and sovereign development, while respecting their specificities and options. on the contrary, they reject the establishment of neocolonial cutting-edge relations that will prolong their dependence and subordination.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to congratulate mr kariņš on the negotiating work which has resulted in a compromise text which, although less ambitious than parliament's initial position, represents a step forward in creating legislation in the area of external energy policy. i agree with the key points in the compromise text that strengthen cooperation between member states on intergovernmental agreements in the energy sector. i particularly welcome the effort and the reinforcement of the role of the european commission, both through its participation in the negotiations with third parties and through the assessment of the compatibility of intergovernmental agreements with european legislation. i also welcome the agreement reached on the sharing of information on agreements signed by member states to ensure that they comply with and enshrine union law, particularly as regards internal market legislation. i believe that the agreement reached contributes to greater transparency in intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy and is a step forward in strengthening the external dimension of the internal energy market in europe.
the measures to promote the recognition and protection of the quality of certain agricultural products are positive and undoubtedly play an important role both in enhancing the value of production and thus the income of producers and in informing consumers and promoting healthy consumption habits. but what quality systems cannot be is the panacea for the many problems facing agriculture and the rural world today, especially in the less developed regions. in the context of the continuation of the policies of liberalization and deregulation of agricultural product markets, it will be very difficult to ensure the continuity of many high-quality productions of great importance for the cohesion of the rural economic and social fabric. the same can be said of the persistence of policies that crush the incomes and purchasing power of the general population. there are a number of policies that need to be changed.
i congratulate the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur on the way they have conducted this process, which has now culminated in the vote on this proposal at first reading. i hope that we will thereby contribute to greater simplification and transparency in certification systems for both producers and consumers, and that they will become less costly and more flexible to innovation. farmers will certainly continue to focus on quality, but they expect us to create the conditions necessary for them to get a fair return on their investment, bearing in mind that imposing such high production standards in terms of food safety, animal welfare and environmental sustainability has the effect of raising the final price of the product. the consumer who demands quality from the european producer ends up buying imported products of lower quality and cheaper. this is our challenge, to invest in quality, to guarantee a fair return to producers and to provide a reasonable choice to the consumer.
european agriculture offers a wide variety of food, with production methods that respect the environment and rural communities. the regional diversity of food, traditional production methods, the emphasis on safety and good environmental conditions mean that the quality of european food is one of the highest in the world, which we must reciprocally demand from third-country products entering the eu. farmers and consumers need to be aware of the special characteristics of food. this quality-oriented approach can therefore help to reward the best quality products both domestically and in international markets. these labels and quality certification schemes recognise the high value characteristics of products and also their regional specificities. the current certification schemes: pdo, pgi, gats, organic and rural products, all of which have their logos, bring a high added value for farmers and consumers. i therefore welcome the rapporteur's initiative to press the commission to make these more comprehensible and extend them to 'island products'.
the discussion on the permissible uses of orphan works should be guided by the principle of access to culture and the arts as citizens' rights and important instruments for cultural, as well as social and economic development and dynamism. the use of orphan works for non-commercial purposes can indeed be an economic and social asset for society as a whole, although we believe that the principles of copyright should be safeguarded. since there can be no direct remuneration of authors, artists or creators in the framework of orphan works, it will be essential to have compensation that reverts to copyright protection bodies or other state bodies if it is used for commercial purposes. but, again, the aim of this recognition should never be to promote the dissemination of works in the context of the deepening of the single market and competitiveness between companies, thus creating a monopoly of ownership of these works, but should be exclusively in the service of the dissemination of cultural heritage in the various member states and in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0268/2012) to renew the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the federative republic of brazil.
in writing. − the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and brazil entered into force on 7 august 2007 and is subject to renewal by agreement between the parties. as a portuguese and a european, i cannot help but consider the strengthening of relations between the european union and brazil to be extremely important and i am glad that this is not just a trade issue but also covers scientific and technological cooperation. this is essential in view of the role that brazil is increasingly taking on the world stage. i would also like to stress the strategic role of the portuguese language as a means of direct communication between the two sides of the atlantic, and as a catalyst for a relationship that is both fruitful and beneficial. the european institutions would do better if they were more aware of the potential of their languages for external communication. i hope that the renewal of the agreement will allow scientific and technological cooperation with brazil to be maintained and that increasingly agile and bold ways of improving the sharing of information, projects and experiences between researchers and companies will be studied.
in writing. - mrs sartori has put forward a recommendation on the renewal of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the federative republic of brazil. as a member of the european parliament from a 'sister' country of brazil with which it shares the same culture and language, i welcome and applaud the renewal of this agreement between the eu and brazil on a subject which should not know frontiers: scientific and technological cooperation. we all stand to gain from the advancement of knowledge in this field, regardless of the institutions from which it is obtained. i am also sure that, with this agreement, and given that this is a country whose economy has one of the highest growth rates in the world, many young europeans in general and portuguese in particular will be able to continue their studies in this country, further strengthening the ties between brazil and the european continent and enhancing transatlantic mobility. the atlantic ocean can be a huge potential for scientific and technological cooperation in the fields of the environment and natural resources.
in writing. - i welcome the positive vote on the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the federative republic of brazil.
in writing. - having regard to the importance of scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and brazil, i supported the european parliament's position that the agreement between the two parties should be renewed. i am glad that the agreement has been renewed, because i believe that cooperation between the european union and brazil goes far beyond this area and is extending to many other areas in the context of the strengthening of relations between the two parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy (a7-0267/2012) to renew the agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria on scientific and technological cooperation.
in writing. - algeria has been convulsed in recent months by the arab spring, and the desire for change among its people is becoming increasingly evident. despite this political and social instability, it is not only desirable but important that the issues of science and technology and international cooperation in these fields should not be interrupted. the european union must be attentive to developments in that country but not wait for their conclusion to get involved and stimulate scientific and technological cooperation. beyond the issues it addresses, the agreement should be seen as another step towards establishing relaxed, coherent and lasting relations with the countries of the southern mediterranean.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria. we used to say that knowledge doesn't take up space! and we can add that it should also know no borders, especially when it comes to young democracies, such as algeria, which is part of the group of countries in the southern mediterranean that, with the support of the european union, embraced the so-called 'arab spring'. because we all have to gain from the advance of scientific and technological knowledge, i welcome and congratulate the conclusion of this agreement on a subject which should know no frontiers. in addition, with the southern european member states sharing the mediterranean sea with the northern african countries, there is a huge potential for scientific and technological cooperation in the fields of the environment and natural resources, maritime transport, security, information technology, cultural projects, etc.
in writing. - by agreeing to this measure, i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria on scientific and technological cooperation.
in writing. − european companies have been stepping up their investments in research and innovation, leading to the development of new products and services with greater added value for people. the scientific and technological field is therefore essential to enhance the competitiveness of companies on a global scale, and it is important to establish international agreements with the most diverse countries. that is why i support the scientific and technological cooperation agreement between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria, which will provide the european economy with new types of knowledge.
in writing. − the management of classified information is necessarily complex, and caution and description are recommended, as is a strict understanding of who should have access to it and how they use it. this problem is exacerbated when information must be passed between institutions which, by their nature, have very different structures and modes of operation. this is the case with the european parliament and the council. together they should be able to ensure that information considered to be classified in this way remains and at the same time that the right of members of the european parliament to information should not be inappropriately and disproportionately restricted. this balance between the rights to information and the reservation of information, which is necessarily unstable, must be continually assessed by the two institutions. the interinstitutional agreement is a major joint effort in this direction.
in writing. - article 127 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament (ep) provides that the ep may 'enter into agreements with other institutions in the context of the application of the treaties or in order to improve or clarify procedures'. the report under review concerns the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the ep and the council on the transmission to the ep and the treatment to be given by the ep to classified information held by the council relating to matters not covered by the common foreign and security policy. the council has been criticised for withholding information from the ep. obviously, not everything can be known to everyone. we understand that there may be 'top secret' confidential information which should not be accessible to the general public or to meps. but the ep must be able to control the eu institutions. i voted in favour of this report, which reduces the scope of classified information, because it is a decisive step towards more democracy, because politics cannot be done behind closed doors and because the ep must be an example of openness to european citizens so that they can evaluate the decisions taken by the politicians they elected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which makes some contributions to strengthening the principle of transparency in the european parliament's access to all relevant documents and information, which is also an elementary condition for the european parliament to be able to carry out its work and a fundamental principle of democracy.
in writing. - this report concerns the draft interinstitutional agreement on access to classified information on matters not covered by the cfsp. as is already the case with the interinstitutional agreement with the ec, the ep, as co-legislator with the council, is intended to have access to confidential and relevant information, as provided for in article 218 (10) tfeu. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider that access to information, with strict rules, is essential for the conduct of parliament's work.
in writing. − the smart regulation programme represents a renewed opportunity for the european institutions to fully embrace good governance on the basis of a sound policy-making process in which impact assessments and ex post control play a crucial role. the aim is to consolidate efforts to better legislate, simplify eu law and reduce administrative and regulatory burdens. however, the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making has become inadequate in the current legislative framework created by the lisbon treaty. this report, which i supported, calls for the 2003 interinstitutional agreement to be renegotiated in order to adapt it to the new reality created by the lisbon treaty. it stressed the need for legislation that was clear, simple, easy to understand and accessible to all. it stresses the need for the commission to ensure the consistent application of the 'sme test' and encourages the member states to do the same in their national decision-making processes. finally, it calls for an independent study of the issue to be commissioned by the european commission, which should clarify the role of regional or local parliaments in the context of subsidiarity control.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it supports the smart regulation programme in its attempt to consolidate efforts to legislate better, to simplify eu law and to reduce the administrative and regulatory burden.
in writing. - i have always supported all efforts to increase transparency and bring the union closer to its citizens. making european legislation clearer, simpler, easier to understand and accessible to all is a relevant contribution in this regard. this is why the smart regulation programme is important, as it seeks to consolidate efforts to better legislate, simplify eu law and reduce administrative and regulatory burdens, while promoting a sound policy-making process, including through impact assessments and ex-post controls. only in this way can we ensure that eu legislation is in line with its objectives and can effectively contribute to meeting the challenges of competitiveness and growth that lie ahead. i also welcome the fact that within the european legislative process there is closer involvement of national parliaments in the scrutiny of legislative proposals in the light of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. this new mechanism introduced by the lisbon treaty has made the eu policy-making process more transparent and has undoubtedly contributed to enriching the debate.
in writing. - i would like to quote my earlier remarks on this subject. i fully subscribe to the idea that we need to draw up legislation that is simple, transparent and understandable to european citizens. despite well-intentioned statements, rigorous studies and lucid reports from various institutions, the truth is that european legislation continues to suffer from the evils that are often pointed out to it: excessive volume, inadequate complexity, unintelligibility and chain relays. this can not only distract citizens from decisions taken at european level but also contribute to the debate, which is not always very reasonable or rigorous, on european intrusion into matters on which it would not have to take a decision or legislate if the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality were more scrupulously observed. we heard president barroso yesterday talking about strengthening democracy and extolling the principle of subsidiarity. we heard him say that not everything can be a priority. you're absolutely right. we must be able to produce less legislation but better legislation because only then will we serve the citizens of europe.
in writing. - the report under discussion, by sajjad karim, focuses on the content of the 18th report on better lawmaking application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality for the year 2010. the european parliament (ep), as a co-legislating body, is concerned that the european union (eu) has the best legislation in the world. in order to ensure that eu law is regulated in a smart and simplified manner, a report on the implementation of this agreement is drawn up from time to time. the 2003 interinstitutional agreement on better law-making is currently in need of revision in order to adapt it to the legislative procedures resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. one of the issues that needs to be resolved is to appeal to the national legislative authorities to ensure the application of the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, in accordance with protocol no 2 annexed to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. i welcome the increased involvement of national parliaments in supporting the european legislative process with regard to the implementation of proposals relating to the above principles. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this intelligent regulation will reduce bureaucracy and improve the functioning of the markets, thus benefiting all european citizens.
in writing. - this report aims to assess the 'smart regulation' programme. according to the barroso commission's policy guidelines, the aim is to 'competitiveness and minimise administrative burden through smart regulation, with a view to enabling markets to work for the benefit of people'. in other words, the full primacy of markets, their free operation for the benefit of economic and financial groups. as for the people, the workers and the peoples of europe, they are suffering an unprecedented civilizational regression, determined by the policies of this eu which are supported by its legislation. on the other hand, we cannot fail to mention that the increase in the eu's legislative burden stems from the (undemocratic) advance over the sovereignty of the states, which empties the representative structures closest to the citizens of their power and which they control best, in particular the national parliaments, which are today mere spectators of the eu legislative process (as demonstrated by the experience of the card mechanism, relating to the monitoring of the principle of subsidiarity), which covers determining areas of their daily life and their collective existence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which sets out concrete measures to simplify european union law and reduce the administrative and regulatory burden.
in writing. - a clear, simplified legal framework with less administrative and regulatory burden is what the so-called smart regulation aims to achieve, in order to improve the internal market for its main beneficiaries, the european citizens. i also think it is important that the ep continues to monitor these procedures in order to put forward measures to improve the adoption and implementation of european legislation, avoiding over-regulation and respecting the principle of subsidiarity.
in writing. − the atlantic strategy should take the form of a macro-regional strategy that fosters synergies between the different instruments and levels of action involved in spatial planning policies and that allows stakeholders on the ground to be involved in defining and implementing the strategy's objectives. the strategy should therefore be structured around two themes: the management of maritime and terrestrial spaces and the exploitation of the land/sea interface; the stimulation of the economic fabric of the atlantic regions through an industrial policy adapted to their specificities. the strategy should make good use of existing european funding without creating new budgetary instruments, better targeting existing policies across sectors. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it agrees overall with the eu strategy for the atlantic region and in particular supports the political priorities set out in the action plan.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on an 'eu strategy for the atlantic region in the context of cohesion policy', as the development of a macro-regional strategy will be key to boosting the atlantic area and promoting synergies between european policies and the various instruments available, and thus better responding to common challenges.
in writing. − developing a maritime strategy for the atlantic region will allow, in 2012 and 2013, for public and private atlantic partners to be involved in the development of an action plan that will propose precise actions in multiple areas for this region. i am therefore pleased to see that there is an intention to create a macro-regional approach to this strategy, which will encourage synergies between the different instruments and the different levels of action which interfere with spatial planning policies. the macro-regional logic should allow for the involvement of all actors on the ground, be it the private sector, regional and local public authorities, civil society organisations, in the definition and implementation of the strategy's objectives.
in writing. − on 21 november 2011, the commission published the communication 'developing a maritime strategy for the atlantic region' in response to the request of the european parliament (ep) and the council. first of all, as a member from a country facing the atlantic, where much of its history is rooted and where it carries out part of its economic activity, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, alain cadec, on the work he has done. the atlantic area is a space with immense potential and where the most diverse activities are developed: tourism, fishing, renewable energies, transport, etc. as a maritime space, it is obviously a fragile environment that needs to be protected; as peripheral space, it requires special attention; and as the western gateway to europe, it has a strategic position. i therefore welcome the development of this atlantic strategy, which has a macro-regional format, brings together various synergies and will boost the socioeconomic development of this whole area. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the themes on which the strategy is structured: 'the management of maritime and terrestrial spaces and the exploitation of the land/sea interface'; and 'the stimulation of the economic fabric of the atlantic regions through an industrial policy adapted to their specificities'.
in writing. the report deals with issues relating to maritime and land-based spatial planning, improving transport between regions, promoting economic activities (industrial and other) and economic growth, developing specific aspects relating to the outermost regions. we recognise the need to address these issues and value some of the objectives set out in the report. we have, however, a fundamental disagreement with the general philosophy of the report. we believe that these issues should be addressed in a spirit of cooperation and coordination of efforts, recognising the sovereignty of each member state over its eez and not in the supra-national perspective underlying the whole report. we disagree with the proposal to create a 'european coastguard', the 'single european sky', which calls into question national airspace management and seeks to pave the way for liberalisation in the aviation sector. we disagree with the focus on the neoliberal eu2020 strategy. we disagree with an 'atlantic strategy' serving the imperial ambitions of the european powers.
in writing. − in response to the political calls from the council and the parliament for a strategy for the atlantic region, the commission published a communication on 21 november 2011 entitled 'developing a maritime strategy for the atlantic region'. i welcome that communication and this report which makes concrete proposals to define the political priorities of the action plan. i hope that in 2012 and 2013 the public and private atlantic partners will join in drawing up an action plan proposing precise actions that meet the needs of the populations. this will be essential for the full success of the strategy to be launched in 2014 and which will benefit from european, national and regional funding.
in writing. the atlantic strategy is based on two fundamental pillars, the maritime and the territorial pillars. these two pillars should facilitate synergies between sectoral policies involved in economic, social, environmental and territorial development. i am voting in favour of this report because i find it extremely positive that there is a strong focus on economic activities related to the sea, renewable energy and tourism. they should play a central role in maritime spatial planning policies, making a decisive contribution to greater economic growth, wealth generation and job creation. i think it is important to recall that the atlantic strategy must strengthen the geostrategic location of the outermost regions, since these regions can be seen as logistical platforms facilitating the transport of products between europe and the rest of the world and possess great natural resources which are beneficial to the european union. i believe that it is time for the european commission to take the decision to make the atlantic the third macro-region at european union level, and this strategy should be properly linked to that of the integrated maritime policy.
in writing. - following the cotonou agreement, the acp countries have access to the european market with a duty exemption granted by the eu. this benefit, granted almost unilaterally, presupposes that the countries take steps to ratify the economic partnership agreements. 17 of these countries have not done so and the commission proposes that, as from 1 january 2014, those countries which have not yet signed or ratified their agreements will be removed from the list of beneficiaries. the european commission argues that the current situation is not compatible with wto rules, but is also a matter of fairness, both for those countries which have fulfilled their obligations and ratified their agreements and for developing countries which are not acp partners. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the issue should be resolved while safeguarding the underlying objective of the economic partnership agreements, which is that the agreements contribute to deepening the process of regional integration and to promoting economic growth and development in all the countries and regions concerned.
in writing. − the cotonou agreement provides for the conclusion of economic partnership agreements (epas) between the members of the acp group and the eu, known as the market access regulation, which lays down the conditions applicable from 1 january 2008 to products from the acp group. the regulation lays down the eu import regime applicable to the 36 acp countries which signed the epas in 2007. this was the provisional solution found for those countries which were not yet in a position to apply the epas awaiting ratification. the regulation in question anticipated, in a virtually unilateral manner, the duty-free access granted by the eu in those agreements. however, 17 countries have not yet ratified the agreements. the european commission therefore proposes that these countries be removed from the list of beneficiaries of the regulation as from 1 january 2014, a move which fully supports the principle of equality between countries benefiting from these exceptional trade conditions.
in writing. - the report under review, by david martin, is on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending annex i to council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007 as regards the exclusion of a number of countries from the list of regions or states which have concluded negotiations. in accordance with the rules of the world trade organisation (wto), the preferential discrimination which the european community granted to countries with which it concluded cooperation agreements ended in 2007. in 2008, the cotonou agreement was signed, which provided for support for developing countries through certain rules. after concluding negotiations with half the acp countries, the eu, believing that all of them would sign the new agreement, adopted a regulation exempting them from paying customs duties and tariff quotas. however, some 18 countries did not sign the convention. it is therefore imperative to force these states to sign cooperation agreements with the eu as soon as possible. i agree with the commission's proposal to require that the new agreements be signed by 1 january 2014, since we cannot continue with transitional arrangements to the detriment of third parties.
in writing. - as we said during the debate in plenary, this proposal for a regulation is an unacceptable form of pressure and blackmail on the acp countries which resist - for justified reasons - signing the so-called economic partnership agreements, which are nothing more than free trade agreements between the eu and acp countries, which could have disastrous consequences for the fragile and poorly diversified economies of these countries, opening the door to the colonization of their markets and the deepening of relations of dependence and subordination at economic level. our group proposed that the proposal be simply rejected, which unfortunately was not accepted by the majority of parliament. the agreement between the socialists, greens and liberals has made it possible to postpone for two years the end of the trade preferences granted to these countries. but the idea behind this delay (which is a defeat for the european commission, which opposed it with its well-known fundamentalism in this field) is quite clear: to give the countries more time to sign the agreements. that is to say, to give the acp countries more time to continue to have the sword of damocles on their heads. this is unacceptable.
in writing. - i voted against the proposal put forward to reject outright the european commission's proposal to exclude a number of countries from trade preferences as this would have harmful consequences for those countries. although the report makes improvements to the ec proposal, i consider that it has some important negative aspects, and i therefore abstained in the final vote.
in writing. the main objective of the economic partnership agreements (epas) included in the cotonou agreements is to strengthen regional integration between acp countries and thus to enable the regions to grow and develop economically. these agreements will also be in line with wto rules. several countries have not yet completed negotiations or ratification of the epas and the ec has put forward a proposal for a regulation which would exclude countries such as haiti and mozambique from trade preferences and exemptions. i think that the date set by the ec for ratification of the epas, 1 january 2014, is quite short, since we have to take into account the particular characteristics of these countries. we have the example of haiti, which is still suffering from the aftermath of the 2010 earthquake, or regions in the african continent where regional integration and stable relations between states are sometimes non-existent. moreover, many of the agreements concluded in 2007 were concluded with countries rather than with regions. for these reasons, i am in favour of extending the deadline until january 2016, given the importance of the negotiations in question.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that in order to comply with european energy market legislation, member states should communicate and negotiate with the commission all energy agreements with third countries, in order to check potential incompatibility with european legislation. this system would be innovative and effective, as it would allow the european union to harmonize its energy market once and for all, not only internally but also externally, with a single voice. i am deeply sorry that the member states' unwillingness to make this commitment calls into question all the work done so far. so, since there are no conditions at the moment, we cannot consider this the final document and wait for further negotiations, because no legislation is preferable to legislation which does not favour us.
in writing. the eu imports more than 60% of its gas and more than 80% of its oil. the trend towards increased imports has been increasing. intergovernmental agreements (igas) concluded between member states and third countries, in particular for the development of gas transport infrastructure requiring major investments, can contribute to the proper functioning of the energy market. in order to avoid a breach of the internal market rules in the field of energy, there is a need for enhanced cooperation between member states as regards gis in the energy sector. information on such gis should be shared between member states and the commission should be aware of existing contracts and ongoing negotiations. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to facilitate compliance with the eu internal market rules and to encourage member states to take the necessary measures to eliminate incompatibilities that may arise in energy gpas concluded with third countries in order to safeguard the proper functioning and security of the internal energy market in the eu.
in writing. − stability and security of energy supply are fundamental to the competitiveness, growth and sustainability of european businesses and to the reduction of the bill paid by citizens. it also plays a key role in the eu's strategic interests. the best way to ensure the reliability of energy supply is through the proper functioning of the internal energy market but also through reduced external dependence, as the president of the commission rightly said in his state of the union address. the eu currently imports more than 60% of its gas and more than 80% of its oil, a trend which is increasing and unsustainable. so, in addition to reducing energy dependence, it is also important to diversify sources of supply. in this respect, intergovernmental agreements can contribute to the eu objective by extending supply sources to the black sea, the eastern mediterranean region and central asia.
in writing. − the countries of the european union (eu) are among the most dependent on the outside world for their energy needs. in fact, we import about 60% of the gas and 80% of the oil we consume, and there is a growing trend due to the increase in the level of comfort of citizens - despite the bet being made on renewable energy. the guarantee of a secure supply is therefore essential. at present, each member state (em) has bilateral agreements for the supply of these products, the contents of which are unknown to the other ems, which causes prices to vary significantly from one country to another, with enormous disadvantages for consumers. aware of this, the council in its 2011 conclusions suggested that the commission should present a proposal to address this problem. we all agree that if the eu were to negotiate globally for the supply of these products, we could achieve a significant reduction in their cost. this requires ms to provide copies of the contracts they hold. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we cannot waste this golden opportunity to move forward into the future, or else we will be accused of not knowing how to manage eu resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i fully agree with the idea that the stability and security of energy supply is important to promote a predictable economic environment for citizens and for the industrial sector in the european union.
in writing. - energy is becoming increasingly important in the daily expenditure of citizens and businesses, affecting not only the quality of life of the population but also european competitiveness. the eu imports more than 60% of its gas and more than 80% of its oil and mechanisms must be in place to ensure the stability and security of energy supply. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that the internal energy market must function properly, that the security of energy supply must be guaranteed and that a new mechanism for the exchange of information must be established. i also think it is important that there should be greater transparency with regard to future intergovernmental agreements that are being negotiated and that the commission should be regularly informed about the negotiation process.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that in the field of quality of agricultural products it is essential to develop and simplify the existing systems and to add new quality terms, since these are likely to create added value for the best european products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'quality systems for agricultural products', which contains proposals to improve european union legislation on quality and to simplify certification systems in order to promote regional diversity of food products, traditional production methods, food safety and environmental protection.
in writing. - the common agricultural policy will necessarily have to rely on the high quality of its agricultural products, an undeniable added value for european competitiveness in a global market environment. quality policy cannot be separated from the rest of the common agricultural policy, nor can it ignore new challenges such as the fight against climate change, the conservation of biodiversity, energy supply and the development of bioenergy, animal welfare and water management in agriculture. the future policy on the quality of agricultural products must also take due account of the increasing demands of consumers, bearing in mind that, at the time of decision, quality matters to an informed consumer. i would remind you, however, that the quality policy for agricultural products cannot be so demanding that it puts small and mediumsized farmers in doubt or the existence of traditional products, specific to certain regions, which cannot see their manufacture as dependent on uniform and blind rules. the aim of quality policy should be to promote the member states' agriculture on the world market and to defend european products, serving both producers and consumers.
in writing. the report under consideration, drawn up by mrs iratxe garcía pérez, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on quality schemes for agricultural products. the european union (eu) has always fought for the quality of its products, both those produced in the member states and those imported from third countries. marketing standards aimed at simplification and harmonization have been adopted by this parliament in order to guarantee the european consumer a product of excellence. european agricultural production is not only of high quality but also of a wide variety. the authenticity of products must therefore be guaranteed by means of protected designations of origin (pdos). i therefore welcome the protection afforded to mountain products. we will also have more transparency for producers and better information for consumers. i voted in favour of this report because it represents a step forward in improving our agri-food policy based on the quality and diversity of agricultural products. i cannot, however, but regret that the council has not agreed to include the milk sector in the final agreement.
in writing. − the aim of this directive is to help agricultural producers to communicate to buyers and consumers the characteristics and attributes linked to the way in which their agricultural products and foodstuffs are obtained and their origin. the eu is aiming for a food quality policy based on certification and labelling systems, notably the system of protected designations of origin (pdo) and protected geographical indications (pgi), the organic farming system and the traditional speciality guaranteed (tsg) system. this is undoubtedly a way of enhancing regional products and traditional local production processes. but it is not - and cannot be - the panacea for the competitive pressures resulting from the liberalisation and deregulation of agricultural product markets, from a market-oriented cap. and this system will be of little use in the context of the crushing of the incomes and purchasing power of the general population, which is getting poorer with the so-called austerity policies. in addition, there are still doubts about the conditions for access to these systems by small farmers and family farmers and peasants, for both bureaucratic and cost reasons. the rapporteur herself mentions these problems. we doubt that you have found the appropriate and effective solutions to deal with it...
in writing. − european agriculture offers a wide variety of food, with production methods that respect the environment and rural communities. the regional diversity of food, traditional production methods and concern for safety and good environmental conditions make european food quality one of the highest in the world. the european parliament considers that the development and simplification of the current quality systems should be a priority, as should the addition of new quality terms which can create added value for the best european products. the commission proposal is a good starting point and the european parliament believes that greater clarity and a more comprehensive european system for marketing standards can still be achieved.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report, having regard to the opinions of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on legal affairs.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis in which we are living forces us to pay special attention to social issues. maximising the existing financial resources is the watchword. we have to do more with the same or even less. social enterprises are an example in this field. they also create social links through the integration policy of people with problems and those in need. i welcome the adoption of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european social entrepreneurship funds. for the first time we have a european regulation on social entrepreneurship to support companies that pursue social objectives and implement innovative programmes. we must not forget that 10% of european companies are active in the social field, which is fundamental to the european economy. we are faced with a text which aims, on the one hand, to promote development based on solidarity and, on the other, to diversify the sources of financing for social enterprises, which are currently financed mainly by subsidies.
in writing. − this proposal, together with the proposal on european venture capital funds, is designed to promote and finance projects of social interest within the framework of the commission's social business initiative. the aim is to harmonize the means of access to and redistribution of funds for social entrepreneurship by creating a mechanism to link companies with interested investors, the composition of the portfolio of such funds, the investment instruments to be used and the categories of eligible investors. it should be noted that these enterprises, usually smes, account for 10% of european enterprises and employ some 11 million people, making it essential not only to harmonise the new rules but also to ensure that investors and enterprises are properly informed. i would like to congratulate my colleague, sophie auconie, on her excellent work in an area which can make a major contribution to the creation of more smes.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation establishes the legal framework under which the different types of investment funds can obtain the status of 'european social entrepreneurship fund' and the corresponding 'passport'. its objective is to create a european sector for investment in legal persons engaged in non-profit-making activities aimed at achieving various social objectives. i agree that funding for social enterprises should be increased, using all available resources, including private ones. however, the current trend is that public investment in these matters is increasingly being replaced by private funds that are less stable and profit-oriented to the detriment of social impacts. i have some reservations in this respect that this regulation should not become another step towards privatisation and/or external contracting in areas which are the responsibility of the state. for these reasons i abstained.
in writing. the final vote on this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european social entrepreneurship funds has been postponed. the regulation does not call into question existing national arrangements for investing in social entrepreneurship but complements those arrangements at union level.
in writing. − in october 2011, the european commission presented a proposal for european social entrepreneurship funds (esfs) which aims to support the social enterprise market by improving the effectiveness of mobilising investment funds targeted at such enterprises. according to eurostat, in july 2012, the european union had an unemployment rate of 10,4%, while in the eurozone the unemployment rate reached 11,3%. the eu-27 thus had 25.2 million unemployed, of whom some 18.1 million were in the euro zone. i believe that it is essential to take measures to tackle this social scourge affecting thousands of people, and social entrepreneurship is a good solution, given that social enterprises cover a wide range of entities whose main objective is solidarity. i agree with this report which sets out uniform rules on the nature of esi funds, in particular on the portfolio companies in which esi funds are allowed to invest and which investment instruments to use.
in writing. − this regulation aims to create uniform rules for the financing process of social enterprises, in the framework of the european commission's social entrepreneurship initiative (2011). the aim of the regulation was to create funds which, by having the same rules, could increase investor confidence in investing in such funds. the definition of 'social enterprises' covers a 'wide range of enterprises with different legal forms, which provide social goods or services to vulnerable or marginalised people' including all enterprises 'which use a mode of production of goods and services that pursue a social objective'. while these funds may be useful for financing the so-called third sector, i.e. collective management companies such as cooperatives, it cannot be overemphasized that in a context where the troika (integrated by the ec and the ecb) encourages states to publicly divest and privatise public services, this solution presents a perversion in that the eu supports the transfer of social services to the private sphere, dismantling the social role and public assets, while at the same time supporting the financing of private companies to replace public services.
in writing. − this proposal, presented together with the social entrepreneurship fund, aims to implement efficiently in the european union a financing model for companies which, at a very early stage, have an ambitious business model. the aim is to create the conditions for investors with venture capital funds to do so in accordance with the participation requirements, for example by allowing them to benefit from a european passport, and thus boost the financing of smes.
in writing. - this report analyses the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european venture capital funds. the economic and financial crisis requires us to pay particular attention to the question of investment. maximising the existing financial resources is the watchword. we have to do more of the same! for a long time, some economists argued that finance was not used to boost the economy and support businesses. no one thinks that today. we must put finance at the service of people in order to boost the economy, economic growth and job creation. if each of the 22 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe were supported in creating a job, we would have solved the problem of unemployment in the eu. for this, venture capital is very important. i welcome the fact that the eu now has a new legislative framework unique across europe that will make it easier to raise money from donors, which will be essential to get us out of the current crisis. finally, i would like to draw attention to the need to step up the fight against tax evasion and the flow of money to tax havens.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation lays down the legal framework under which the different types of investment funds can obtain the status of 'european venture capital fund' and a 'passport' for venture capital funds. its objective is to create a european venture capital investment sector for small and medium-sized enterprises. while it is true that financing for smes is problematic in the union, the solution cannot be to rely solely on private funds which are primarily aimed at making a profit, thus relieving the state of its responsibilities to support growth and employment. i abstained.
in writing. the final vote on this report on the proposal for a regulation on venture capital funds has been postponed. the report seeks to regulate these funds which provide financing to companies, generally very small, which are in the early stages of their development and which show a strong potential for growth and expansion.
in writing. − at a time when the capital available by banks to support business investment is becoming scarcer, other sources of finance are becoming more prevalent. in this sense, venture capital funds provide financing to companies, generally very small, which are in the early stages of their development and which show a strong potential for growth and expansion. i support this report because i believe that venture capital funds provide companies with valuable inputs in terms of knowledge and skills, contribute to job creation and capital raising, foster the creation and expansion of innovative companies, increase their investment in research and development and promote entrepreneurship, innovation and competitiveness in line with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. i believe that the process of setting up a european venture capital fund should be speeded up as quickly as possible in order to alleviate the costs of introducing new funds into the market.
in writing. − the objective of this regulation is to create a european venture capital investment sector targeted at small and medium-sized enterprises. the express purpose of the capital funds is 'to provide financing to companies, generally very small, which are in the early stages of their development'. sme financing is undoubtedly a real need and one that must be met. in portugal, however, the growing difficulties faced by smes are the result of the continued policy of public disinvestment and the increase in recessive austerity policies. the problems of portuguese smes are the result of a policy of abandonment and destruction of our production and productive apparatus, of an internal market strangled by the ever-decreasing purchasing power of workers, of a tax policy which penalizes work and small enterprises. privatizations, which have placed in the hands of large economic groups, energy, banking, telecommunications or transport companies, suppliers of essential goods and services at monopoly prices, are one of the causes of the economic strangulation of smes. this is the policy that needs to be reversed and which led to 46.7% more companies declaring bankruptcy in the first half of the year than in the same period of 2011.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with most of the amendments.
in writing. as i said when i spoke on the resolution on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation applying the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas in the agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and central america, on the other, i believe that the same applies to colombia and peru. these instruments must be effectively usable they must be agile and low-bureaucratic whenever justified. on the european side, they should be directed primarily at protecting european banana production, which constitutes an important part of the economies of the outermost regions, particularly the most deprived and fragile regions.
in writing. − colombia and central america will completely change their trade relations with the european union (eu) by opening up markets by removing tariff barriers and facilitating trade. this report, by bernd lange, is concerned with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas in the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru. as the rapporteur says, these agreements raise some technical and philosophical problems which we must solve. technical because we need to protect european producers from unfair competition and make the safeguard clauses work; philosophical because, in addition to trade policy, we must include obligations relating to human rights, working conditions, the environment, etc. although europe's outermost regions are in a somewhat vulnerable competitive situation, the existence of safeguard clauses in accordance with the provisions of the world trade organisation will protect them. i regret that it has not yet been possible to reach an agreement with peru and i hope that it will be soon.
in writing. − in march 2011, following a difficult process, the european commission signed a trade agreement with colombia and peru. many social forces in these two countries and in europe opposed this agreement. countries such as bolivia and ecuador have decided to abandon the negotiations, accusing the eu of wanting nothing more than a free trade agreement. as a matter of fact, it is. the consequences - profoundly negative - will be felt on both sides of the atlantic. in the banana sector, the agreements anticipate the damage to european producers. they therefore provide for a safeguard clause which, as experience has shown, will not prevent such damage. the opinion of parliament's committee on agriculture itself recognizes this. there are several weaknesses in this clause. with unacceptable hypocrisy and intolerable cynicism (for those who, after all, endorsed the agreement), it is proposed (as the commission has done) to extend the globalisation adjustment fund to these farmers, recognising the doom to ruin they have decreed. portugal, and in particular the autonomous region of madeira, where banana production is of considerable importance, will also be affected.
in writing. the final vote on the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru was postponed, but i voted in favour of the package of compromise amendments tabled by the main political groups.
in writing. − on 19 january 2009, the council authorised the commission to open trade negotiations with the andean community member countries, which eventually led to a trade agreement with colombia and peru. the agreement was initialled on 23 march 2011 and signed on 26 june 2012. the agreement provides for the reduction and elimination of customs duties in bilateral trade between the partners. it also contains a safeguard clause under which tariff preferences may be suspended or removed if such trade liberalisation causes an unexpected increase in imports, harming the position of european industry competing with those imports and affecting employment in the european producing sector, as may happen in the weaker economies of the outermost regions.
in writing. − bananas are one of the main export products of several ibero-american countries to the european union and are of enormous importance to their economies. despite the european desire to contribute to the stability, progress and development of exporting countries, it is worth remembering that bananas are also produced in the union. it is of the highest quality and comes from the outermost regions whose economies, because of their specific circumstances, deserve particular attention and protection from european decision-makers. the agreements concluded for this product must take account of this and provide for mechanisms to protect european interests. i hope that it will not be necessary to use it, but i recognize the need and the desirability of guarding against this need.
in writing. − colombia and central america will completely change their trade relations with the european union (eu) by opening up markets by removing tariff barriers and facilitating trade. this report, drawn up by jörg leichtfried, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and central america, of the other part. as the rapporteur says, these agreements raise a number of technical and philosophical problems. technical, because we need to protect european producers from unfair competition and make the safeguard clauses work; philosophical, because in addition to trade policy we must include obligations relating to human rights, working conditions, the environment, etc. although europe's outermost regions are in a somewhat vulnerable competitive situation, the existence of safeguard clauses in accordance with the provisions of the world trade organisation will protect them. i voted in favour because there will be more transparency through the comprehensive monitoring by the commission, which will report to this parliament annually on this trade.
in writing. the european commission has signed a free trade agreement with six central american countries - costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama. this agreement liberalises trade in certain agricultural products in whole or in part. the banana is the main agricultural product in all these countries' exports, and the american multinationals are the main producers, in vast areas of monoculture where the working conditions of local peasants are close to slavery. for these reasons, numerous organizations have denounced the social, labour and environmental dumping resulting from this agreement, and more generally from free trade and the subjection of agriculture to the rules of the world trade organization. the safeguard clause and the stability mechanism proposed here will be worthless. the weaknesses of the cap are numerous and its ineffectiveness is pointed out in the opinion of the committee on agriculture itself. the stabilisation mechanism will not be automatic, since the european commission will be free to apply it or not. parliament here acknowledges its inability (and we add: unwillingness) to oppose the commission, despite all the propaganda that has been made about its increased role in trade policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of returning this report to the committee responsible for opening negotiations between the commission, the council and the ep on the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas in the eu-central america association agreement.
in writing. − on 23 april 2007, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with certain central american countries. the negotiations, concluded at the eu-latin america summit in madrid in may 2010, led to an agreement establishing an association between the eu and central america, initialled on 22 march 2011 and signed in tegucigalpa on 29 june 2012. the council approved its celebration on 10 july 2012. the agreement includes a bilateral safeguard clause providing for the possibility of reintroducing the most-favoured-nation tariff rate in cases where, as a result of trade liberalisation resulting from the agreement, imports are made in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to union producers producing similar products or in direct competition, as is the case in the outermost regions, in particular as regards the banana sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the majority of the clauses in the draft legislative resolution.
in writing. - with the extraordinary technological progress of recent years, access to culture has changed radically. today, people can read on their mobile phones, tablets and e-readers, and the relationship of citizens to books is not the same as it was 10 years ago. that is why i think it is relevant and important to make available, through online access at european level, works for which not all the rights holders have been identified (orphan works). this is a step towards preserving and disseminating the diversity of european culture, making it accessible to all.
in writing. - man is a social being who has always lived in society and can only survive in society. this implies that there are standards of conduct and laws to be observed. the truth is, we live in a society where everything is regulated. the report by mrs lidia joanna geringer from oedenberg deals with the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the use of works which are 'orphan', i.e. whose author or authors are unknown. in fact, thousands of works are lying in national, municipal, castle and other archives, with no possibility of being disclosed without the knowledge of the intellectual property rights holder. the proposal for a directive under consideration aims to address this issue through a new legislative framework. i welcome the adoption of this proposal because, thanks to digitisation and dissemination via the internet, it is possible to make this work available to the public concerned without any fear of the appearance of its author, thus avoiding its destruction while promoting the identification of its authors. i voted in favour and i consider that this is a measure of great cultural and scientific significance.
in writing. - we advocate a genuine democratisation of access to cultural creation and enjoyment in the most varied spheres and expressions of culture. the discussion of permissible uses of orphan works should be seen within this general principle. the safeguarding of the possibility of using orphan works for non-commercial purposes, solely for the purpose of cultural dissemination, is undoubtedly an added value for society. however, we have doubts and concerns about the possibility of this recognition opening the way to the promotion of the dissemination of works in the context of the deepening of the single market, opening the way to the monopolisation of the marketing of these works, creating a lucrative business for the large digital distribution companies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council on certain permitted uses of orphan works, because i agree with the principle that clear information on how to identify and locate copyright holders is necessary, as this is a prerequisite for the full exercise of their rights.
in writing. - this report aims to ensure that in the digital age, and in accordance with copyright, certain so-called orphan works, whose owner cannot be identified or found, can be viewed by the public under certain rules. i am voting in favour because i believe that cultural boundaries should be abolished and that the digitisation and online accessibility of cultural material from libraries, schools, museums and archives should be possible within the internal market.
in writing. − the discussion on the permissible uses of orphan works should be guided by the principle of access to culture and the arts as citizens' rights and important instruments for cultural, as well as social and economic development and dynamism. the use of orphan works, not for commercial purposes but for political dissemination, could thus constitute an economic and social asset for society as a whole. however, we fear that the purpose of this recognition is to promote the dissemination of works in the context of the deepening of the single market and competitiveness between companies, creating a monopoly on the marketing of these works, creating a lucrative business for the large digital distribution companies.
in writing. - i voted against granting exceptional trade preferences to pakistan because, despite the substantial corrections made to the commission's original proposal (which testifies to the added value of the european parliament's intervention in international trade matters after the lisbon treaty), the compromise text reached between parliament and the council, with the help of the commission itself, retains the two original sins which had already motivated my vote against it at the first reading. on the one hand, it is unacceptable to use trade preferences for the alleged purpose of humanitarian aid (the floods two years ago), for which the union has appropriate financial instruments. on the other hand, although the harmful effects of the initiative - especially on the european textile and clothing sector - have been substantially reduced in the final version of the diploma, it is still the most vulnerable countries, such as portugal, that will pay the bill for the union's generosity towards pakistan, which is not fair.
in writing. − finally comes to an end after two years and after the 'green light' from the wto (world trade organisation) this 'urgent' procedure which will grant autonomous emergency trade preferences (meaning exclusive) to pakistan following the devastating floods it suffered in 2010. as the epp shadow rapporteur on this dossier and as the portuguese elected member of parliament, i have followed this procedure very closely and have twice questioned the commission and the council on it. what was at issue here was essentially the use of the european union's (eu) trade policy as an instrument of humanitarian policy, in a precedent unparalleled in the history of the eec/eu. that is why i voted against this report, not that i am against humanitarian aid to pakistan in response to the emergencies created by floods, conflict and afghan refugees. quite the opposite! as a european, i fully support and endorse the amount of eur 2.458 billion in humanitarian aid to the pakistani people (period 2009/2013 - member states and european commission). what i do not understand is the rationale for insisting on the precedent of using trade policy as an instrument of humanitarian aid (nor do i believe that anyone can do that...).
in writing. - i voted against granting exceptional trade preferences to pakistan because, despite the substantial corrections made to the commission's original proposal (which testifies to the added value of the european parliament's intervention in international trade matters after the lisbon treaty), the compromise text reached between parliament and the council, with the help of the commission itself, retains the two original sins which had already motivated my vote against it at the first reading. on the one hand, it is unacceptable to use trade preferences for the alleged purpose of humanitarian aid (the floods two years ago), for which the union has appropriate financial instruments. on the other hand, although the harmful effects of the initiative, especially on the european textile and clothing sector, have been substantially reduced in the final version of the diploma, it is still the most vulnerable countries, such as portugal, that will pay the bill for the union's generosity towards pakistan, which is not fair.
in writing. - pakistan has suffered serious human and material losses as a result of flooding on an unprecedented scale. this tragic circumstance has prompted the commission to submit a proposal for a regulation introducing emergency trade preferences for that country. i bow to the memory of the victims and wish that pakistan can regain stability after such a brutal blow. i believe that the european union should not close in on itself and try to help those who need it most, for which reason, in principle, it would not mind doing such a preferential scheme. however, i believe that this cannot be separated from a permanent demand on the part of the union for the need for respect for human rights on the part of those who receive our aid. furthermore, these measures should have been subject to a careful assessment by the commission of their possible impact on competing union companies and the consideration of possible alternative measures. fortunately, parliament has been sensitive to these issues.
in writing. - this report deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament (ep) and of the council introducing autonomous emergency trade preferences for pakistan. the european union (eu) is always at the forefront of humanitarian aid. this was the case with the floods that ravaged large parts of pakistan with enormous human and material losses. in addition to humanitarian aid in the first hours of the disaster, the eu has sought other ways of supporting the economic recovery of that country, as set out in this proposal for a regulation. i hope that pakistan will soon recover its economy and become a prosperous country and not a haven for terrorists. however, i do not think that trade preferences can replace humanitarian aid. although this report is better than the original proposal, i understand that sectors such as the european textile industry may be harmed. that is why i am voting against this proposal.
in writing. - when we voted on this report last may, we voted against it, and we have now voted in favour. it is recalled that this proposal arose following the floods that affected the country in 2010. as we said then, effective forms of aid and genuine solidarity with the people of this country are needed. but the floods have turned out to be just a pretext to satisfy the interests of those in europe who will benefit from these measures, even to the detriment of the countries and regions most dependent on industries such as textiles, clothing, footwear, components, leather goods and their substitutes. in portugal, representatives of the footwear, components, leather goods and their substitutes sectors have been consistently expressing concern about the impact on these sectors of the proposed granting of emergency autonomous trade preferences to pakistan. while this impact would always be severe in an already very weakened sector, deeply affected by the liberalisation of world trade, which is concentrated in regions with high levels of unemployment, poverty and social exclusion and low economic diversification, it becomes more severe when these regions are located in member states, such as portugal, faced with a very serious economic and social crisis.
in writing. - i voted against granting exceptional trade preferences to pakistan because, despite the substantial corrections made to the commission's original proposal (which testifies to the added value of the european parliament's intervention in international trade matters after the lisbon treaty), the compromise text reached between parliament and the council, with the help of the commission itself, retains the two original sins which had already motivated my vote against it at the first reading. on the one hand, it is unacceptable to use trade preferences for the alleged purpose of humanitarian aid (the floods two years ago), for which the union has appropriate financial instruments. on the other hand, although the harmful effects of the initiative, especially on the european textile and clothing sector, have been substantially reduced in the final version of the diploma, it is still the most vulnerable countries, such as portugal, that will pay the bill for the union's generosity towards pakistan, which is not fair.
in writing. - i voted against this report as it did not support the introduction of emergency autonomous trade preferences for pakistan, as this would set a very damaging precedent for using trade policy as humanitarian aid. the adoption of this measure would create major imbalances in the economies of some european countries, as well as injustices in relation to other neighbouring countries such as bangladesh and india. however, i am in favour of €2.458 billion in humanitarian aid for the people affected by the floods which have affected large parts of the country.
in writing. - this report is of an exceptional nature in helping to develop the economy of pakistan following the floods which devastated part of the country. the commission is proposing to exempt from customs duties a list of 75 strategic products for the pakistani market, textiles and clothing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. in parallel, the human rights conditionality clause, as it is in other trade agreements, should be included. i think the ec's proposal for three years is fairer in the face of the situation in pakistan. that is why i voted against this report. these measures should not affect exporting textile and clothing countries, notably portugal, and require pakistan not to introduce new duties or charges on imports from the eu.
in writing. as one of the signatories of the epp motion for a resolution and this joint motion for a resolution, i would like to express in this statement of vote, and in addition to my speech in plenary, my state of mind regarding this horrendous and degrading situation, which has been worsening exponentially in recent weeks to absolutely unsustainable and intolerable levels and which should shame us all as human beings. it was with a lot of sorrow and some indignation that i voted for this resolution on the situation in syria in a mixture of feelings that i thought were shared by the whole house and i hope that all this hypocrisy of the international community, based on a dual set of criteria (in the face of similar and recent situations ...) will end as soon as possible and that the syrian population can aspire to a future in peace and with the possible harmony, in a country that lives a very delicate moment "that opposes dark idealisms mixed with genuine cries for freedom to a regime that fights for survival" as i said in plenary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution condemning the escalation of violence against the civilian population in syria by the regime of president al-assad. this is a criminal attack on the right to life and the safety of persons, in particular children and women. if action by the eu and the international community fails in syria, stability in the middle east will be compromised and security in europe, in all its aspects, from terrorism to arms proliferation, illegal immigration and energy security, will be seriously threatened.
in writing. the news and images coming from syria tell us of the brutality that is plaguing that country and how it is plunged into the most cruel and fratricidal of wars. attempts by the assad regime to survive international condemnation and crush the popular revolt have failed, but the rebels do not yet seem to possess the capacity to achieve a significant military victory that would bring the regime to its end. internationally, the un security council is being blocked by the action of two of its permanent members, preventing the international community from taking steps towards more decisive intervention in that country. this situation of brutality and paralysis is reflected above all in the suffering of defenceless citizens who pay with their lives for their aspiration to live in peace and democracy. the european union, and in it the european parliament, cannot but strongly condemn what is happening in syria, and demand an end to the hostilities and the promotion of a transition to a free, democratic and peaceful syria.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the conditions of life in syria are deteriorating day by day in the face of the impotence of the international community, which is unable to put an end to one of the most cruel and fratricidal wars of recent times. the european parliament's joint motion for a resolution, tabled by the s&d, epp, ecr and alde groups, deals with the political situation in syria, where a dictatorial regime led by president bashar al-assad continues to violate the most basic human rights, having caused more than 60 000 victims among a defenseless population whose only wish is to live in peace and democracy. however, al-assad's air force continues to massacre rebel forces and devastate civilian areas and it has not even been possible to establish a humanitarian corridor. i regret that the international community is still hesitant to resolve this conflict, especially the behaviour of the superpowers china and russia, which do not assume their political and humanitarian responsibilities in the un security council.
in writing. - the majority in parliament, like the positions it took then to attack yugoslavia, iraq, afghanistan and libya, is again insisting on the campaign to destabilise syria, which is widely reported in the mainstream media. the aim is to exacerbate real problems, to manipulate facts, to hide the responsibilities of the eu, the usa, nato, the eu's major powers, the obscurantist and fundamentalist monarchies of the gulf region, in order to support military aggression against this country. on the ground, the strategy of militarization, subversion, aggression, interference and war continues by the self-styled "group of friends of syria", financed, armed and trained some of them identified as belonging to terrorist networks by the imperialist powers (france and the united kingdom) and the dictatorships of the persian gulf. the majority of parliament is thus once again on the side of those who are taking action against the efforts being made to maintain the political and diplomatic settlement of the syrian question. in syria, imperialism wants to repeat the wars of aggression perpetrated in the name of human rights and democracy, but whose real motives were the economic and geostrategic interests of the main imperialist powers of nato and the profits of the military complex and the multinationals associated with it. we obviously voted against the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in solidarity with the syrian people.
in writing. − since the conflict began on 15 march 2011, more than 27,000 people have died, according to the syrian observatory for human rights, and more than 250,000 syrians have fled the country, which is engulfed in extreme violence between assad's forces and rebels. the consequences of this conflict have already spread to neighbouring countries, with an unprecedented wave of refugees. despite the humanitarian, financial and technical assistance provided by the eu and by international organisations and ngos, the situation of the syrian population is deteriorating day by day. i regret that a serious and concerted position has not yet been taken within the security council and i reiterate my condemnation of all forms of human rights violations. i hope that the un will adopt a common position condemning and strengthening sanctions against the assad regime and that positions will be agreed on the construction of a new regime based on stability.
in writing. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in syria, adopted by a large majority, calls for the eu to take action to prevent the further spread of terrorism and to ensure that the syrian regime is not subject to any further attacks. on the ground, the strategy of militarization, subversion, aggression, interference and war continues by the self-styled "group of friends of syria", funded, armed and trained some of them identified as belonging to terrorist networks by the imperialist powers and the dictatorships of the persian gulf. the majority of the ep is thus once again on the side of those who are taking action against the efforts being made to maintain the political and diplomatic settlement of the syrian question and against the sovereignty and legitimate democratic and national rights of its people. in syria, imperialism wants to repeat the wars of aggression perpetrated in the name of human rights and democracy, but whose real motives were the economic and geostrategic interests of the main imperialist powers of nato.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it condemns the recent deterioration of the judicial system in russia, in particular with regard to acts of intimidation and politically motivated prosecution of opposition activists. relations between the eu and russia must also depend on efforts to consolidate democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights.
in writing. − the international community has recently become aware of the two-year prison sentence for three members of a feminist punk band for alleged hooliganism and incitement to religious hatred after they broke into the main orthodox cathedral and performed a song intended to denounce the regime of vladimir putin. i divide the question into three: taste, religion and politics. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european parliament is able to exercise its right to vote. as far as i'm concerned, and without in the least denying them their right to express themselves, i find the intervention of the pussy riot in very bad taste. on the religious front, we have seen actions taken in churches throughout europe in clear disregard of the religious feelings of believers and often in clear hostility towards them. believers are no less citizens than others. surely there would be other ways to condemn the russian regime. but more important than all of this is the political question and the functioning of the rule of law, the proportionality of penalties and their use for political purposes. russia has a long way to go in this area. it's up to us to help him do it.
in writing. the european parliament's resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, adopted on 26 june, calls on the commission to take all necessary steps to ensure that the situation in the former yugoslavia is brought under control. the alternation of the posts of president and prime minister between putin and medvedev has raised some suspicion in the international community about the process of consolidating democracy, the rule of law and respect for fundamental rights. there are many voices denouncing the violation of democratic norms in russia and the lack of independence of the judiciary from the political power, despite the fact that the supreme court has followed the recommendation of the presidential council for human rights and reduced lebedev's sentence to three years. but there are other cases, such as politically motivated trials of scientists accused of espionage, the conviction of opposition members such as activist taisiya osipova sentenced to eight years in a penal colony, the singers of a punk music group pussy riot who performed in a church subjected to exaggerated penalties, etc. as russia is a strategic partner of the eu with whom we have cooperation agreements, we have the right to demand proper behaviour in terms of respect for human rights and the independent functioning of the judiciary.
in writing. - this resolution is part of the ongoing campaign by those who, with unbridled imperial ambitions, see in russia a significant source of natural resources, a huge market, including labour. the majority in parliament is thus continuing a hypocritical and well-known strategy of disrespect for russia's sovereignty and interference in its internal affairs. this strategy is all the more hypocritical in that it points the finger at this country and continues to mask the situation in the eu, where the most serious violations of national sovereignty, democratic principles and freedoms, the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens are taking place, with the attempt to impose a civilizational setback in terms of the rights and social achievements of workers and peoples. this campaign cannot be separated from the role that russia has been playing in the un security council, preventing the implementation of the us, eu and nato strategy of using the un to try to legitimize military aggression in syria. this strategy is as old as imperialism itself, which seeks to create and feed campaigns in the international press to catalogue and isolate russia.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because of the balance of the proposals contained in it.
in writing. on 17 august this year, three members of the pussy riot band were sentenced by a russian court to two years in prison for vandalism motivated by religious hatred. this accusation stems from a punk song recorded inside a cathedral as a protest against the policies of president vladimir putin. this and other cases, already common in russia, have led to criticism from the international community regarding the true independence of the judiciary and the rule of law in russia. as a member of the council of europe and the oecd, russia must fulfil its international obligations and thus implement democratic values based on the rule of law.
in writing. - this resolution is part of the permanent campaign of those who, after having helped to destroy the soviet union and the first socialist state in the world, now want to curb the development of capitalist russia, to dominate its natural resources, its market, its workers and the russian people. the majority in the ep is thus continuing a hypocritical and notorious strategy of disrespect for russia's sovereignty and interference in its internal affairs. this strategy is all the more hypocritical in that it points the finger at this country and continues to mask the situation in the eu, where the most serious violations of national sovereignty, democratic principles and freedoms, the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens are taking place and the attempt is being made to impose a civilizational setback in terms of the rights and social achievements of workers and peoples. this campaign cannot be separated from the role that russia has been playing in the un security council, preventing the implementation of the us, eu and nato strategy of using the un to try to legitimize military aggression in syria. this strategy is as old as imperialism itself, which seeks to create and feed campaigns in the international press to catalogue and isolate russia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the strengthening of the democratic legitimacy of the banking union and the single supervisory mechanism. any relevant change in oversight should be accompanied and monitored by parliament in its capacity as co-legislator.
in writing. − at the european council on 28 and 29 june, euro area leaders agreed on the need to move towards a strengthened economic and monetary union, i.e. the need to complete the legal framework for economic and monetary union (emu). they also agreed, as i have been advocating, that to achieve this final stage of emu, it will be necessary to work on four essential pillars: a banking union, a budgetary union, an economic union and a political union. the european commission has therefore put forward a proposal yesterday to move towards a banking union which, despite its merits, is based on article 127 (6) tfeu. the article in question is designed to limit the european parliament's participation in the drafting of this piece of legislation, forgetting one of the pillars which the european leaders have set themselves: that of political union and democratic legitimacy. it is therefore essential that the participation of the only democratic european body be reviewed immediately.
in writing. - over the past few months, several voices from european policy makers, starting with the president of the european commission, mr barroso, have warned of the need to move urgently towards a strengthened economic and monetary union on the path towards the already established economic and monetary union. now, durão barroso is moving forward with a new proposal: the creation of a european banking union not just for eurozone countries, but for those outside the eurozone who wish to cooperate. the strength of the euro implies the existence of union-wide supervision, guaranteed by this new legislative framework and implemented by the ecb. this would ensure that citizens' deposits are protected and that, in the event of a financial institution going bankrupt, it is not the taxpayers who pay for it, as is the case today. i voted in favour of this proposal because it responds to the main challenges facing the euro area: to end the banking sector's link to sovereign debt and to create a single and effective european supervisory mechanism that will support the member states. there will also be a single book on banking, which should apply to the 27 member states.
in writing. the majority of this parliament wants banking supervision to be transferred from the national authorities to the ecb. it wants this sector, which is fundamental to the financing of national economies, to be moved from being directly controlled by the states to being directly determined by the ecb. the ecb, without any political and democratic control, has fulfilled the triple role of hindering the refinancing of large capital by promoting the dependence of the states for its financing , of the financial sector (the so-called markets) and of promoting the exploitation of workers by covering the loss of purchasing power of wages by credit. countries such as portugal, which have no currency and cannot intervene autonomously in monetary policy, are also limited in the regulation of the financial sector. what economies like portugal need to grow is the nationalisation of commercial banking, putting it at the service of the national economy. portugal needs a public bank to finance the increase in national production and a reindustrialization programme, a fundamental instrument for creating jobs with rights, raising wages, reducing the country's external dependence, and thus solving the problems of the deficit and public debt.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution which proposes a concrete step towards solving the current problems of the european economy.
in writing. − several eu member states are facing a serious financial crisis, most often caused by the lack of existing banking supervision which has led to the approval of support mechanisms by national governments. greece, ireland and portugal have received large amounts to support their banking systems, demonstrating that there is a widespread problem in the european banking sector and that action at european level is urgently needed. in this respect, i am in favour of creating a banking union in which the european central bank is the sole body responsible for banking supervision, and there should also be greater transparency and accountability of these institutions to the european parliament. finally, i support the existing proposals on capital requirements for the banking sector, deposit guarantee and bank resolution which aim to ensure greater sustainability of banking in the medium and long term.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. nor is it concerned that this sector, which is fundamental to the financing of national economies, is no longer under the direct control of the states but is now directly controlled by the ecb. the ecb is nothing more than an institution which, without any political and democratic control, has fulfilled the triple role of obstructing the refinancing of large capital, promoting the dependence of the states on its financing vis-à-vis the large european financial economic groups and promoting the over-exploitation of workers by covering the loss of purchasing power of wages by credit. countries such as portugal, which have no currency and cannot intervene autonomously in monetary policy, are also unable to regulate the financial sector. what economies like portugal need to grow is the nationalisation of commercial banking, putting it at the service of the national economy. portugal needs a public bank to finance the increase in national production and a reindustrialization programme, a fundamental instrument for creating jobs with rights, raising wages, reducing the country's external dependence, and thus solving the problems of the deficit and public debt.
this plenary will vote on parliament's position on the 2013 budget before negotiations with governments begin. the governments which at the june summit proclaimed their commitment to jobs and growth are the same governments which have been imposing unprecedented austerity on the citizens of europe, which has increased the number of unemployed, which want to make work perpetually precarious and which seek to take away all acquired rights. it is not surprising that your proposal - and that of the governments - for the union budget continues this austerity delusion. for the last four years, governments have been able to do nothing but cut back, and 2013 is no different. they want to cut european research, education and training programmes and regional development and cohesion programmes, as if the 9 billion euros in cohesion funds and the european social fund which are owed - i repeat, owed - to countries such as portugal, greece, spain and italy were not already enough, putting at risk several programmes, including erasmus. it is true that parliament is trying to reverse some of the most serious cuts made by governments, particularly in the 7th framework programme, erasmus mundus, smart energy and even beyond the commission's proposal. it is also true that the appropriation for aid to palestine has been increased in this proposal and it is also true that the european parliament has taken the initiative of cutting almost 9 million from parliament's own expenditure, which is still, in my view, quite insufficient. but unfortunately these proposals cannot change the nature of the european budget and counteract the recessionary policies of austerity and divergence when what was needed were policies of solidarity. in any case, there is one thing we cannot accept: that the only institution with direct democratic legitimacy, which is parliament, should be excluded from negotiations with governments. so, as we have seen, leaving decisions solely to governments has only fucked up.
the council's proposal for the 2013 budget is shameful, unacceptable and flagrantly contradictory to the discourse of solidarity and all the propaganda around growth and cohesion. the indiscriminate cuts proposed by the council, it should be remembered, are based on pressure from countries which are among the biggest beneficiaries of the single market and common policies. if it is true that this report is critical of the council's position, it is no less true that this parliament, in previous years, and in the face of the same council position, has always ended up giving its assent and approval to budgets which are equally unacceptable. in the amendments we have tabled to the budget and to this report, we have shown that there are alternatives. the crisis we are experiencing calls for a substantial increase in the budget and a strengthening of its redistributive function. more money to support productive activity, especially in the countries facing the most difficulties, the creation of jobs with rights, the fight against poverty and exclusion, research and development, environmental protection, less resources for external interventionism, the repression of emigration, militarism and institutional propaganda.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, i would like to begin my remarks this afternoon by welcoming the agreement reached between the council and parliament on this important issue. the designation of 2013 as the european year of citizens is an important signal that we want to increase public awareness of the rights and responsibilities of citizens across the european union. we hope, in particular, that it will highlight the rights of citizens to move and reside freely within the european union. these issues are all the more important in the run-up to the european elections of 2014. it was this parliament which first proposed this initiative at the end of 2010. at that time you highlighted the need to stimulate discussion on union citizenship and to inform union citizens of their rights, in particular those resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. we are happy that the idea was taken up and moved forward by commissioner reding. the treaty on european union first introduced the concept of citizenship of the union, so next year will mark the 20th anniversary. it is therefore particularly appropriate that 2013 will be designated as the year of citizens. the cyprus presidency, building on the work of the danish presidency, was able to conclude negotiations on this proposal in the first few weeks of its term in office. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mrs papadopoulou, for her enthusiasm for this initiative and for her willingness to negotiate in such a cooperative manner with the council. i welcome the vote that will be taking place this week on this proposal and have no doubt that the initiative will be strongly endorsed by this parliament. the general objective of the european year of citizens in 2013 is to enhance awareness and knowledge of the rights – but also of the responsibilities – attached to union citizenship. as is clear from the legal basis chosen by the commission, the proposal aimed first and foremost to help citizens to make full use of their right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. however, in the context of free movement, the european year will also provide an opportunity to promote other rights. the free movement of persons is one of the four basic freedoms, but at the same time there is clearly also a way to bridge the gap between what the rules state and how they operate in practice. citizens still encounter difficulties when moving to another member state, whether as workers, students, entrepreneurs, job seekers or consumers. it is therefore essential that all citizens are fully aware of their legal rights. this initiative will also provide an opportunity to raise awareness of other rights related to free movement, such as the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament and in local elections in the member state of residence, the right to petition the european parliament, the right to apply to the european ombudsman and the right to address eu institutions, as well as a wide range of other rights, such as the free movement of goods and services, consumer protection and public health, equal opportunities and equal treatment. we very much hope that this proposal will play an important role in encouraging and empowering citizens to uphold their right to engage actively at european level, not least in view of the 2014 european elections. of course, the european year of citizens is not a one-off event. it now needs to seek the launch of a longer-term process of building awareness and encouraging participation. i know this parliament has a pivotal role in ensuring that this is the case. we also look forward to the 2013 european union citizenship report, which will assess progress in this area and propose further initiatives to remove the obstacles which prevent citizens from fully enjoying their rights. this is an important decision which serves the interest of all our citizens. all of us – this parliament as well as our own national governments and parliaments – have a role in helping to increase awareness of what it means to be a citizen of the european union. we are ready to play our role. i have no doubt that the european parliament will be very active, not just in 2013 but also beyond, in highlighting this message. thank you for your attention.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, on behalf of the commission i wish to thank very much the rapporteur, mrs papadopoulou, and the members of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and all the committees involved in shaping what is now, finally, a solid basis for compromise in this area that should suit all parties. the european year of citizens 2013 will take place in a very special context, as next year also marks the 20th anniversary of eu citizenship, as introduced by the maastricht treaty. this is an opportunity to illustrate, with concrete examples, the benefits of eu citizenship in the daily lives of students, residents, tourists, workers, private individuals and businesses. the commission is ready to provide the second so-called ‘citizenship report’ on how to remove the remaining obstacles and barriers which make it difficult, in daily life, for european citizens to move around europe. the year also falls on the eve of the european elections. therefore, it is a good opportunity to remind people that participation is legally possible wherever citizens may reside in the european union. as mentioned already, this is a matter of raising awareness of the real value of citizenship, going beyond participation in the democratic life of the european union, as already described on many occasions, to the rights to consular protection and to petition the european parliament, address the institutions and apply to the ombudsman. last but not least, this is an opportunity to highlight the prerogatives of this assembly, which is an assembly of people elected by the people. i am happy now that we have a solid basis between the institutions, and i am sure that together we can make the european year of citizens a real success.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. − celebrating the so-called european year of citizens in 2013 is another idea that the european union has come up with to try to legitimise the idea of the european union as an area of democracy, equality, solidarity and citizen participation. the european union is increasingly perceived by public opinion and workers in various countries as a place of inequality, exploitation and slavery in the workplace, and the withdrawal of the rights that peoples have won over centuries of struggle. let's be honest with each other. the european union is not a space for the free movement of people, but rather a space for the free movement of capital and goods in the service of international monopolies, and today to speak of the free movement of people is first and foremost to speak of the reality of millions of workers who have no possibility of remaining in their country and are obliged to seek the support of their families or to emigrate. given that this is a very difficult reality, we have introduced in the committee on employment and social affairs the need to defend workers' rights in the field of social security and trade union rights without any discrimination.
mr president, the european union's development policy is in fact in need of substantial changes, first of all it lacks sufficient means, at least in line with the commitments it has made and the objectives it has set at international level, particularly in the framework of the un, and it lacks the changes that would make it possible for the developing countries to better appropriate the aid that promotes their sovereign development. we are concerned about trends and directions such as a shift from budget support and public subsidies to so-called blending mechanisms which weaken and distort aid and introduce uncertainty where predictability is needed. we are also concerned about the imposition, under the guise of so-called good governance, of practices and policies in a number of areas such as economic organization, taxation, justice and others, policies which must be the result of the choices and options of developing countries, taking into account their specific situation and conditions and not being exported from europe. finally, much more in-depth consideration is needed of the question of whether sectoral policies are consistent with development objectives or not.
mr president, the european leaders continue to insist on budgetary discipline and i ask, budgetary discipline, so let us get to it, because what exactly are we talking about when we talk about budgetary discipline? i believe that budgetary discipline means respecting the contracts with pensioners and not abandoning the commitments of the state halfway, i believe that budgetary discipline means respecting the contracts of those who work and not inventing extraordinary taxes or cuts in subsidies, budgetary discipline means respecting commitments in health, education and culture and not closing down services or closing down and cancelling projects halfway, discipline means putting the banks in order and not taking from the taxpayers to put it in the hands of speculators to save their banks. this is the budgetary discipline i would like to see implemented in the european union and we should not continue with this market party. if we need an example, the budget being discussed in portugal under the auspices of the troika is the perfect example, it violates all the commitments that any state must have to its citizens not to violate the agreements made behind closed doors that are ruining europe and its countries.
mr president, several social organizations from various countries have written to the european commission, denouncing and criticising the pressure it has been putting on countries such as portugal and greece to privatise their water services. the commission's response, in all its cruelty, reveals the true face of those who are in charge of the destiny of the european union. even though it is aware of the tragedy of privatization in many countries, in terms of the explosion of costs, the degradation of services, exclusion and inequality in the enjoyment of this fundamental human right, the right to water, the commission openly advocates the privatization of this and other public services. it is therefore contrary to the supposed neutrality of the treaties in this respect and it is blatantly taking over the plunder of these countries and their peoples. the peoples of europe are once again being told what they can expect from the european union: the sacrifice of the rights of all for the sake of the business of a few. you'll get the answer you deserve.
mr president, we could perhaps agree with this report on various measures relating to the dissemination of information, etc. but what is certain is that this report does not touch the wound in relation to the problems facing small and mediumsized enterprises today. in my country, portugal, dozens of companies are closed down every day because of the recessionary policies that the troika imposes on a subservient government. we are talking about raising taxes on these companies, but also about policies that lead to a decline in domestic consumption and a loss of purchasing power for workers. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. to try to hide this is to talk about a pseudo-reality that exists only in the hallways of these institutions and is far removed from the real, concrete world.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, it is not very encouraging to speak to an empty room at this time of night. however, even if it is just for the record, for the record, let me present my report on economic and trade relations with the united states of america. this report was approved by a large majority in the committee on international trade. as the permanent rapporteur of the committee on international trade for economic and trade relations with the united states, i am personally very pleased with the content of this report. firstly, because it sends a strong message of support for deepening economic and trade relations between the union and the united states, and secondly because the report sets out the most important elements of offensive and defensive action for the union without, however, setting preconditions for the opening of negotiations. the report is primarily political in nature. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this report seeks to answer two crucial questions. firstly, does a trade and investment treaty between the union and the united states make sense? the answer to this question is almost unanimously yes. first, all the existing studies and analyses show the enormous growth potential that mutual liberalisation of trade and investment would bring to both sides. second, both economies face common challenges that can only be properly addressed together, rather than separately. among them are the low growth they suffer from, the eruption of new emerging economies, particularly china, the growing protectionism in some relevant economies like argentina, brazil, russia, south africa. thirdly, since the doha round for a multilateral treaty on global trade openness has failed, the only way to do this is through bilateral channels. secondly, will it be possible to reach an agreement between the united states and the european union within a reasonable time? let's start by saying, right now, that it's not going to be an easy task. there are considerable divergences of interest in some important areas, especially in agriculture and in air and sea transport, to name just two examples. there are important regulatory divergences from technical standards, for example in the automobile sector. there are deep-rooted cultural differences such as the one between the european precautionary approach to food and environmental safety and the american risk-based approach. there are a number of irritating elements, for example, genetically modified organisms (gmos), meat from the offspring of cloned animals, again, just to name two examples. it is simply that these difficulties, although great, are not insurmountable and should not, even less, be regarded as obstacles to a successful agreement. first, there must be agreement, especially since it covers all sectors and removes most barriers to trade and investment; secondly, the advantages at stake in such an agreement are so great that it is worth making the mutual concessions necessary to reap the benefits of substantial trade and investment liberalisation between the two parties. i therefore invite parliament to support my report so that parliament's voice can be heard now and taken into account in the initiatives of the commission and the council on this matter.
mr president, the single european sky project is, from the outset, inseparable from the intention to liberalize the air transport sector. the underlying vision is not the development of the sector according to a logic of the prevalence of the public interest, but rather the alignment of airspace management with the interests of the large airlines and the monopolistic concentration taking place in the sector. the arguments which have been advanced over the years in favour of a single european sky are subsidiary to this objective and are without foundation, whether in terms of safety, employment or environmental issues. it is in the context of public ownership and management of the sector that all these issues can best be balanced and not in the context of the liberalisation which they want to promote at all costs. let us not forget the steps that have been taken and those that can still be taken to achieve better coordination and better use of airspace, while maintaining the sovereignty of each member state over its national airspace, an essential issue for the defence of the specific interests of each country, whether in the field of commercial aviation or in the field of defence.
mr president, the debate on passenger rights in all modes of transport is undoubtedly important. the report contains positive recommendations in areas such as passenger information, the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility, among others. but, incomprehensibly, there is one expression which does not appear once in the fifteen pages of the report. that expression is public services. the first and most important right of passengers, of the population, is the right to a public transport service of quality, modern, efficient, functional and affordable. the ongoing process of destruction of public transport services in countries like my own, portugal, which is being driven by the european union and the imf, involves the abolition of services, the brutal increase in prices, the reduction in quality, the loss of workers' rights and dismissals, all of which are preparing the way for privatisation which will inevitably lead to a further degradation of the service provided. you can't talk about passenger rights without talking about having this.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. - mr president, i have been asked to work with my colleagues on the proposals on the environment and public health. we ask that in the multiannual financial framework, public health and the environment are not forgotten in a crisis context, because unfortunately that is what seems to be happening. that is why we are calling for increased funding for proposals to strengthen public health in europe. we are asking for a 25% increase in the climate policy budget, which is so important. we are asking for a step forward from the european commission's proposal on nature conservation and biodiversity conservation in the life programme. we are also asking for funding for civil protection, and if we are asking these questions, it is because the multiannual financial framework is the test that is being put to the european institutions to see whether or not they have learned from the crisis. and it is not just the amount that we are talking about, it is also the political orientation of that amount. what we need to know is whether austerity or solidarity, sanctions or social progress will advance that's what's at stake here. we are living in exceptional times and in exceptional times we cannot continue with the policies we have had so far. continuity is not our destiny and we cannot allow a europe to win that is putting the european project itself in question.
the committee on fisheries has also adopted a number of amendments. - madam president, the proposal for the financial framework for 2014-2020 represents a reduction in relative terms compared to the current one. with these financial perspectives, there will be no economic and social cohesion, but more divergence, and the intolerable cuts that some want to impose on the council do not make the commission's proposal sufficient or even acceptable. the proposal provides for an overall allocation of eur 6685 million for fisheries and maritime affairs to the main financing instrument for the sector, the european fisheries and maritime fund, representing an annual average of eur 955 million for the duration of the financial framework. this figure is even lower than the forecast for 2013, the last year of the current financial framework. the amounts foreseen for each of the years of the future financial framework are always lower than the amount foreseen for 2013, i.e. even if the current multiannual financial framework is very insufficient, the proposal for the next one is even worse. the commission is proposing to divert funds, which are already scarce, to other purposes. that is what this report does, and that is reason enough for its rejection.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment. - madam president, the discussion in the committee on women's rights and gender equality was unanimous in concluding that the current proposal for the next multiannual financial framework does not reflect the importance of increasing investment in this area, in particular as a necessary and sensible response to avoid further eroding social rights in times of economic crisis. rather than decreasing funding in specific and vertical policies for women's rights, what is required at this crucial moment is increased intervention in these areas by maintaining specific programmes such as the daphne programme, by maintaining gender equality as a specific objective of the rights and citizenship programme, by continuing to allocate funds to the european institute for gender equality and by funding small women's organisations that carry out crucial field work in this area. in the end, what stands out in this area of women's rights, as in the others, is the commission's willingness to reduce funding for this framework, allocating only 0.37 per cent of eu gni to the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion. this is the path that adds more divergence to the already disastrous policies of the european union.
madam president, we do not understand how the council can say that the superiority is still strong, smart, sustainable and inclusive growth if it then goes on to say that the presidency recognises that it is inevitable that the overall level of expenditure will have to be corrected downwards and that the presidency believes that all headings have to be subjected to a reduction effort. have they forgotten the lisbon strategy's goal of being the most dynamic and competitive economy by 2010? remember the sorry state we got to in 2010? you're not forgetting that we're planning a strategy for 2020? or are they just words? what about the objective of raising the employment rate to 75% and increasing investment in research and development and innovation to 3% of gdp? what about reducing the number of people at risk of poverty by at least 20 million? aren't you forgetting the basics? that the union budget is not a budget for expenditure but an investment budget, which is all the more indispensable when national budgets are in difficulty?
mr president, mr president of the council, mr president of the commission, first of all i would naturally like to congratulate the council on its results, although i think it is a little late. it's a little late for the final decision. the truth is, there's a breakthrough. now, precisely because i am thinking back on all that my colleague mr kasoulides has said, i would like to ask the president-in-office just one question: the countries that are under assistance, the countries that are in difficulty, have fought hard for the retroactive application of bank debts in their separation from the national debt. that apparently wasn't accepted. but we heard statements yesterday from the highest german and the highest french authorities saying that they would treat ireland as a special situation. what i am asking is whether the council has adopted any decision on discriminatory treatment for ireland other than that reserved for countries such as portugal, greece, spain and others.
mr president, how is it possible that the european council did not pay any attention to the imf’s admission of errors in calculating fiscal multipliers and the impact of austerity, with the consequent tragic costs in terms of the recession endured directly by the peoples of portugal, ireland, greece, spain and italy, and the indirect weakening of the eurozone and the union’s economic outlook as a whole? how come the commission, which is supposed to be the promoter of european interests and which is part of the troikas in bailout countries, is not pressing those troikas to reassess the adjustment programmes in the light of these mistakes, which have been admitted by the imf, and of director lagarde’s clear recommendations to allow more time and reasonable interest, in order for those countries to adjust? how can the council and commission continue to insist on ‘perpetual imprisonment in austerity’, as french president françois hollande has so rightly put it, for eu bailout countries, which has such dangerous economic and political consequences for the whole of the european union?
in writing. at a time when we are still suffering the effects of the economic and financial crisis, it is understandable that the european council has focused on economic issues, in particular the need to invest in growth and job creation and the need to deepen economic and monetary union. it is imperative to restore european competitiveness, encourage investment and create jobs, and the number of unemployed in the eu is already around 25 million. we therefore need a growth-oriented budget. it is also essential to restore confidence in the euro area and to ensure the eu's long-term stability by ensuring economic convergence. but it is not just emu that needs a boost, the union of citizens and the creation of a common european identity in an area without internal frontiers are also under threat. we must urgently reach a compromise here too, because the europe of which we are proud is not limited to the common market, it goes far beyond that, putting people first in european policies. i regret that in all these areas the council has simply repeated decisions already taken and postponed others, without bringing hope to the european citizens.
in writing. this meeting marks an unmistakable deepening of the economic, social, political and institutional crisis in which the eu is plunged. the repetitive and tedious formulation of guidelines and proclamations - on growth, employment, reforms, consolidation, the single market and other trash that is a regular presence in the conclusions of the european council meetings - does not hide the growing tensions and contradictions, especially those that oppose germany to france, spain and italy, among others. in the face of the massive destruction of productive forces, unprecedented levels of unemployment and the prospect of severe and prolonged recessions, there is growing disagreement about the extent (and location) of this destructive process. the contradictions surrounding the banking supervision mechanism and the direct financing of banks by the esm are a clear example of this. against this background, attacks on the rights and sovereignty of peoples and on democracy itself continue. after economic governance and the fiscal compact/budgetary treaty, the idea arises of concluding contracts between the states and the european institutions, obliging the former to comply with a previously agreed reform plan, in line with the recommendations of the european semester. despite the differences, a concertation determined by class interests still prevails, aimed at intensifying the exploitation and theft of workers and peoples.
the last european council in brussels had the opportunity to discuss three subjects considered central to the future of the european union, namely the growth pact and economic and monetary union. the council also referred to the difficult economic and financial situation in greece. i am in favour of the rapid implementation of the new growth and employment package worth eur 120 billion, the capital increase of the european investment bank by eur 10 billion, the adoption of the transeuropean networks in the field of energy and transport, the deepening of the internal market or the strengthening of the amounts for research and innovation or industrial competitiveness. i also criticise the lack of agreement between the member states on the entry into force of economic and monetary union, and it has been decided that the european central bank will only strengthen its powers in the area of supervision of all european banks next year. i would also like to stress that if any member state receiving external financial support can make the adjustment period more flexible, or if the amounts of bank recapitalisation do not affect the budget deficit, all other countries should be entitled to exactly the same treatment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as in the light of article 9 of the protocol and the relevant provisions of the rules of procedure of the european parliament and of the austrian constitution, the committee on legal affairs has concluded that there is no reason not to waive the immunity of mr martin ehrenhauser.
in writing. − this report, by bernhard rapkay, concerns the request for the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of martin ehrenhauser mep following a request made on 21 march 2011 by the public prosecutor's office in vienna, austria. the prosecutor's office intends to bring proceedings against the mep, who is suspected of illegally accessing a computer system, thus violating the austrian penal code in relation to the secrecy of communications, improper interception of data, use of a communications interception device and data protection offences. the prosecutor's office, on the basis of statements and a set of documents from another mep, suspects that martin ehrenhauser illegally accessed hans-peter martin's private e-mail system, copying and disclosing his private and professional data. in this connection, and in view of the recommendation of the committee on legal affairs recommending the waiver of mr martin ehrenhauser's parliamentary immunity, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. - the defence of the independence of the mandate of the european parliament is the competence of the european parliament and this independence cannot be called into question. in accordance with article 8 of the protocol on the privileges and immunities of the european union, members of the european parliament may not be subject to any form of search, detention or prosecution for opinions or votes they express in the performance of their duties. the request for waiver of immunity is made by the public prosecutor's office in order to allow the austrian authorities to carry out investigations and bring criminal proceedings against martin ehrenhauser. the request for the waiver of the immunity of martin ehrenhauser concerns a suspicion of an offence relating to unlawful access to a computer system pursuant to article 118oa of the austrian criminal code, of an infringement of the secrecy of communications pursuant to article 119 of the austrian criminal code, of an improper interception of data pursuant to article 119oa of the austrian criminal code, of an improper use of a recorder or an interception device for the interception of communications pursuant to article 120 (2) of the austrian criminal code, and of an infringement of article 51 of the data protection act 2000. so i'm in favor of lifting the immunity of martin ehrenhauser.
in writing. - the european parliament was asked to waive the parliamentary immunity of mr martin ehrenhauser, mep, in an action for unlawful access to a computer system under article 118a of the austrian criminal code, for breach of the secrecy of communications under article 119 of the austrian criminal code, for misuse of data interception under article 119 of the austrian criminal code, for misuse of a recorder or a device for intercepting communications under article 120 (2) of the austrian criminal code, and for breach of article 51 of the data protection act 2000. considering that the facts of this case, as presented in the documents submitted to the committee on legal affairs, do not indicate that the alleged events have a direct and obvious connection with the performance by martin ehrenhauser of his duties as a member of the european parliament, it was decided to waive the parliamentary immunity. on the basis of these arguments, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the request for the waiver of the immunity of mr martin ehrenhauser, member of the european parliament, since the vienna public prosecutor's office intends to bring proceedings against him, given the suspicions contained in this report.
in writing. − the introduction of a line in the eu budget on the european globalisation adjustment fund under the pretext of 'being able to react more quickly to new cases' is a further step towards formalising an instrument which, as we have always denounced, is not the necessary response to the problems of company restructuring. moreover, its funding criteria are deeply unfair. what some, notably the social democrats, want is to perpetuate this fund and use it as a buffer (and as a weapon of political and ideological manipulation) against policies that attack the eu's social and labour rights. they don't want to get to the bottom of the problem, just mitigating the effects of some unemployment. we abstained on several amendments proposed by the committee on budgets, in particular on the distribution of milk in schools, simply because we preferred the following amendments which further increased the amounts available under these headings which we consider to be of great importance. as regards the financing of certain areas of development cooperation, we supported the relevant headings, not without reservations as to the nature and effectiveness of the action of some of the ngos supported. at times the system seems to work for itself, with no financial support for practical actions that help improve the lives of the people in these countries.
in writing. - first of all, it is important to note that we abstained on several amendments proposed by the committee on budgets, in particular on the distribution of milk in schools, simply because we preferred the following amendments which further increased the amounts available under these headings. on the other hand, we do not agree with the introduction of a line in the eu budget on the european globalisation adjustment fund, which we consider to be a further step towards institutionalising an instrument which, as we have always denounced, is not the necessary response to the problems of unemployment.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european agency for the evaluation of medicinal products for human use. this increase is necessary in view of the european commission's proposal, which is 3.8% down, and which i do not think is in line with the growth and jobs pact. i therefore think it is imperative that the ep does not accept any level of payment that does not fully cover the payment needs for 2012 to 2013. the european union must show the necessary solidarity and above all give the leverage to revive growth in the internal market.
in writing. − the delicate situation of national economies reinforces the role that the eu budget should play: primarily as an instrument to support these economies. in this context, the eu budget must be approached carefully and responsibly, given the importance of its implementation. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. it may be possible to reduce some appropriations in some categories of the draft budget, but if we agree with the council's reading, the eu will risk not honouring its debts. i do not want to make the mistake of appearing inflexible about the council's strategy, and i am aware that the eu's institutional credibility is at stake, but i cannot help but say that the response to the crisis must be 'more europe' and not 'less europe'. i therefore support the commission's draft budget which follows parliament's priorities for programmes and initiatives to be taken into account in order to achieve these objectives. therefore, the priorities for the 2013 budget should be to support sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment, in particular for smes and young people.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu should have the capacity to pay for all the costs and activities planned for 2013. the cuts made by the council must be reviewed. it is unthinkable that certain important programmes, such as erasmus mundus and the european social fund, should suddenly be stopped for lack of funds because of lack of payment.
in writing. - this report, drawn up by mr giovanni la via and mr derek vaughan, concerns the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 - all sections. it regrets the council's position, which has once again given us the usual approach of horizontal cuts in the draft budget. in fact, the council, in response to the commission proposal, cut eur 1 155 million in appropriations for commitments (da) and eur 5 228 million in appropriations for payments (pd). this cut in payment appropriations would lead to the need for amending budgets next year, a practice which leads to instability and demonstrates a lack of rigor. the mff is coming to an end and the concentration of project implementation in the member states is leading to an increase in the funds needed to pay for projects. i therefore support the ep's strategy of providing sufficient funds for payment expenditure, particularly in the area of sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment, smes and youth.
in writing. − the adoption of the european parliament's position on the eu budget for 2013 repeats the strategy of previous years. the majority in this parliament is confined to the traditional institutional game in which the initial differences eventually fade and the three institutions (ep, commission and council) and the political forces that dominate them always agree on the fundamental: to reduce the eu budget. the justified concern about the likely shortage of funds to deal with debts already incurred in several programmes and the fact that 2013 is the last year of the current multiannual financial framework does not hide the complicity of the majority of parliament in the deepening of social and inter-country asymmetries, rampant unemployment and the huge increase in poverty in the eu. the majority in parliament is limited to cosmetic and other purely propaganda changes, keeping the main guidelines and priorities of the eu budget unchanged, making it manifestly insufficient in the face of the urgency of countries like portugal in this period of deep economic and social crisis. the basis for negotiation between parliament and the council is far below existing needs and even below the figure set in the multiannual financial framework (1.15% of gni).
in writing. − the eu's general budget for 2013 should have as priorities, as detailed in its abovementioned resolution of 4 july 2012 on the mandate for the trilogue, support for sustainable growth, competitiveness and employment, especially for smes and young people. in my view, the commission's draft budget reflects parliament's priorities as regards the programmes and initiatives to be strengthened to achieve these objectives. we are all aware of the serious difficulties caused by the state of national economies and the need for a responsible and realistic reading, but we cannot accept the approach whereby the eu budget becomes the basis for possible savings in the same proportion and logic as is applied to national budgets, given the substantial difference in their nature, objectives and structure. the reduction of eu resources could result in a lack of investment and liquidity in the member states which will exacerbate the problems they face, and that is what we cannot allow to happen.
in writing. − in voting on the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013, i voted in favour of an amendment to remove the subsidy for tobacco cultivation. i believe that the maintenance of these aids to tobacco production is inconsistent and incompatible with the union's health policy and with the objectives of reducing tobacco consumption, especially among young people. the money you waste could be used instead to fight smoking and the evils of tobacco. i also voted in favour of an amendment to exclude bulls specially bred for participation in bullfighting from the payment of premiums for beef production. first, the rearing of those animals is essentially motivated by objectives which are outside the scope of beef production and must therefore be considered to be outside the scope of the payment of that premium. on the other hand, i believe that subsidising the breeding of these animals means encouraging and promoting a barbaric and degrading spectacle which is offensive to the values of present-day society.
in writing. - having regard to the fact that the priorities expressed in the opinions of the committees responsible and those which emerged from the meetings with the rapporteurs specialising in budgetary matters have been taken into account as far as possible in this resolution, i voted in favour of this report. i would also like to stress that in this report the prerogative of the european parliament to decide on the location of its seat, as well as the workplaces of its members and officials, was voted on, and this was met with an unprecedentedly overwhelming approval.
in writing. − the draft budget provides for 151.2 billion for payment appropriations and 137.9 billion for commitment appropriations, representing an increase of 2.2% and 6.82% respectively compared to the 2012 budget. in all its resolutions on the 2013 budget, the european parliament has stated its commitment to ensure the appropriate level of payment appropriations to cover budgetary needs over the next year, as estimated by the european commission. as a result, and at the request of the european parliament, two interinstitutional meetings (additional to the agenda of the committee and in the course of such meetings) were added to adjust the budget for payment appropriations. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organization of the market in bananas is a very good one. i therefore voted in favour of the draft budget, which, however, awaits critical amendments to be introduced at the next plenary session.
in writing. the committee on budgets of the european parliament has decided to adopt a budget with eur 151.2 billion in commitment appropriations and eur 137.9 billion in payment appropriations. those figures represent an increase of 2,2% and 6,82%, respectively, compared to the union budget in 2012. the budget adopted by the committee on budgets restored all the budget cuts proposed by the council in the amounts allocated to cohesion for growth and employment. the amounts entered under the heading of cohesion for growth and jobs are of paramount importance in view of the economic and financial situation in the member states. the adopted budget for the european union will support smes and respond in a more robust and articulated way to youth unemployment and allow alignment of cohesion policy with the europe 2020 objectives. the regions, especially those in countries under the imf, ecb and ec structural adjustment programmes, will benefit from an important crisis-fighting tool, as this budget will address the lack of investment in them. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the adoption of the european parliament's position on the eu budget for 2013, as well as the majority political forces, coincided enthusiastically in the reduction of the eu budget. the main guidelines and priorities of the eu budget have not been changed, which is clearly insufficient in view of the urgency of countries like portugal in this period of deep economic and social crisis. the eu could have given a political signal of its willingness to redistribute more funds to the most fragile countries, but it has missed this opportunity.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i believe that the european union budget itself can be part of the solution to promote investment, growth and employment, and help member states to tackle their current structural challenges in a concerted way. it is also important to emphasise that this is an effective instrument for expressing the solidarity of the european union and should be an appropriate tool for achieving the political objectives of the pact for growth and jobs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that it includes an effort to adopt cross-cutting criteria for simplification and flexibility which will certainly help to increase transparency and accountability in the use of community funds by each member state.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates a strong eu budget and helps to coordinate the efforts made by the member states. the eu budget is part of the solution that will bring europe out of the crisis. without investment, there is no economic growth and many member states need eu funds to solve structural problems, increase their competitiveness and reduce unemployment and poverty.
in writing. − this interim report aims to facilitate and accelerate the adoption of the mff for the period 2014-2020. european citizens place great hope in the achievement of the priorities set out in the europe 2020 strategy: smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. only then will it be possible to overcome the crisis and develop the european economy. in this context, i would stress the importance of cohesion policy. all the studies show its added value. in the face of the enormous disparities between eu regions, the need to maintain this policy is clear and it should never be the adjustment measure for other policies such as those resulting from the eu 2020 flagship initiatives. cohesion policy is the only policy that can simultaneously contribute to the 5 eu 2020 objectives in the areas of education, research and innovation, climate change, employment and the fight against poverty. the eu budget depends on more than 80% of direct contributions from national budgets. this leads each member state to seek a 'juste retour' and leads to an unhealthy distinction between net contributors and recipients. that is why it is important to have real own resources. the eu should therefore seek other revenue such as the application of a financial transaction tax and vat revenue in the manner proposed by the commission.
in writing. - this report is yet another expression of the support of the majority in parliament for a path of successive budget cuts as advocated by the major eu powers - the major beneficiaries of the single market and the policies and guidelines in place. they say they want to influence the negotiations on the next financial framework, but there are a number of points - as in the case of cohesion policy - on which they support the council's unacceptable positions. the majority supports the subordination of the eu budget to the eu 2020 strategy (orientation towards privatisation, liberalisation and the destruction of public services) and the foreseeable transfer of funds from the cohesion fund to the deepening of the single market through the 'connecting europe' mechanism, transferring public money to large transport networks which, in the context of the prevailing relations within the eu, will accentuate the dependence and subordination of countries such as portugal in the face of the great powers, which will not only have the outflow of their production facilitated, but also access to the resources of our country. we, for our part, support the need to increase the community budget to at least double the present amount, reinforcing its redistributive function.
in writing. − i am aware that the negotiations on the mff for the period 2014-2020 are taking place in a very adverse social, economic and financial context, in which member states are making considerable efforts to adjust their national budgets with a view to the sustainability of public finances and the stability of the banking sector and the single currency. i believe, however, that the eu budget is part of the solution that will enable europe to overcome the present crisis by promoting investment in growth and jobs and by helping member states to tackle, collectively and in a concerted way, the current structural challenges, namely the loss of competitiveness and the increase in unemployment and poverty. we therefore need to present a mff 2014-2020 that upholds the objectives set out in the eu 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, namely promoting employment, improving conditions and increasing public spending in the fields of innovation and research and development, meeting our climate change and energy objectives, improving education levels and promoting social inclusion, in particular through poverty reduction.
in writing. − this resolution on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework sets out the european parliament's concerns regarding the process of adopting a regulation on the multiannual financial framework. this will be the first multiannual financial framework under the new provisions of the lisbon treaty, which implies new provisions in the field of interinstitutional cooperation with a view to reconciling efficient decision-making with respect for the prerogatives of the treaty. in these circumstances i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the report stresses the political importance of the european union budget in overcoming the economic crisis by ensuring the necessary level of financial investment throughout the union. the mff negotiations are taking place in a difficult context, in which only european concepts of solidarity and mutual assistance can help member states to tackle, collectively and in concert, the structural challenges facing europe: loss of competitiveness, rising unemployment and poverty. however, the commission's proposals represent a budget freeze for the mff and are therefore deficient. the report also calls for the council to clearly and publicly disclose which eu projects and priorities should be abandoned. i voted in favour of this interim report because we all depend on the leverage effect of the eu budget to trigger and catalyse actions with clear added value in boosting growth and employment which the member states alone are not capable of delivering.
in writing. − the multiannual financial framework sets out the community budget for the period 2014-2020. in june 2011, the european commission put forward a proposal for €1.083 billion of expenditure, corresponding to 1.11% of european gross domestic product and a 5% increase over the current programming period (2007-2013). i believe that the community budget should be increased, in line with the proposal of the european commission and supported by the friends of cohesion group of 15 member states. at a time of high economic and financial difficulties, it is essential to strengthen european investment in a wide range of areas (e.g. cohesion policy, agriculture, research and innovation), as this is the only way to achieve economic growth, create jobs and improve the social situation of europeans. i would like to stress that i do not agree with the pre-allocation of 25% of cohesion policy funds to the european social fund, considering that there should be sufficient flexibility for the member states and european regions to define their strategic priorities. finally, i cannot but object to the sharp reduction (47%) in the additional specific allocation for the outermost and sparsely populated regions, in the hope that there will be a change in the budget figures at council meetings.
in writing. - this report is another expression of the support of the majority in parliament for a path that does not oblige the major beneficiaries of the single market and the policies and guidelines in place - the eu's major economic powers - to channel more funds into this budget and thus into the redistribution of wealth. the majority of meps broadly endorsed the council's positions, supporting the subordination of the eu budget to the eu 2020 strategy and the foreseeable transfer of funds from the cohesion fund to deepen the single market through the connecting europe facility, transferring public money to large monopoly transport networks. we have put forward proposals to increase the community budget in a number of areas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it will undoubtedly generate not only more own resources for the european union itself but will also be an important political signal to the world of the political union that exists in the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the vat own resource should be part of a reform of the own resources system which should substantially reduce the overall level of national contributions by the member states and because i believe that the present proposal represents a major improvement on the system currently in force.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report for urging the european commission to come forward with a concrete proposal on the eu's own resources, in particular through vat, so that this tax goes directly into the eu budget from 2014-2020. i believe that other possibilities can be explored, such as the financial transaction tax, which could help reduce member states' contributions to the eu budget.
in writing. − revenues from the european union (eu) budget come to more than 80% of the gni-based share of member states (ms) directly from their national budgets. this means that, contrary to the treaties, the eu budget is not financed from genuine own resources. this leads to the logic of the 'juste retour' and the undesirable distinction between net contributors and recipients. the new challenges and commitments of the eu in tackling the crisis and delivering on the europe 2020 strategy led the commission, on 29 june 2011, when presenting the proposals for the new multiannual financial framework (mff) 2014-2020, to include a set of proposals on the reform of the eu's own financial resources system, which envisages the abolition of the vat own resource as it stands and its replacement by an eu vat. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr dehaene because i believe that the new eu vat, being more transparent, stable and reliable, is a step forward in the reform of eu resources and a way of lowering the contribution of each member state.
in writing. - we strongly disagree with the proposal of the majority in parliament to reform the own resources system to include a new 'eu vat' as an 'own resource'. we are faced with a federalist proposal which is a gross manipulation based on the false 'reduction of the share of contributions from the member states'. as is their custom, the majority in parliament do evil and make a mess of things. it is trying to take advantage of the serious economic and social crisis facing countries like portugal (in which the eu has a great deal of responsibility) to advocate a shift from a system of contributions based, above all, on the product of each country, to a system that will increasingly be based on the most blind and unjust of all taxes, vat, penalizing the weakest and most unprotected. this proposal is all the more manipulative because, by invoking 'the consolidation efforts of the member states', it seeks to create the idea of inevitability. but, as we have proposed, another path could and should be followed, improving the current regime by changing the national contribution key in proportion to their gni, so as to ensure that the countries with the highest gni contribute proportionately more to the eu budget, with the introduction of profound changes in their redistributive function and their priorities.
in writing. − on 29 june 2011, the commission presented its proposals for a new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, together with a set of proposals on the reform of the union's own resources system. these include the proposal for a seventh own resources decision (odr), which calls for the abolition of the current vat own resource and its replacement by a new eu vat resource. the proposal for a regulation aimed at making the vat own resource available is necessary to define the method to be used by the member states for the calculation of this new resource and the procedures to be followed for its transfer to the eu budget. the proposal for a new eu vat own resource is undoubtedly a major improvement on the current system and has the potential to become a genuine stable and reliable own resource for the union budget. the vat own resource should be part of a reform of the own resources system, which should substantially reduce the overall level of national contributions by member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council regulation on the methods and procedure for making available own resources based on value added tax. the european commission has said that the current vat own resources should be abolished and a new eu vat own resource created.
in writing. − the commission's proposal to abolish the current system of own resources and to create a new eu vat own resource streamlines the current taxation system so that it evolves into a stable and reliable own resource for the union budget. the vat own resource aims to reform the eu's own resources system in order to reduce the level of national contributions by member states, and one of the key criteria for a genuine vat own resource would be that it should be paid directly to the eu budget without being collected initially by national administrations.
in writing. − the multiannual financial framework sets out the community budget for the period 2014-2020. in june 2011, the european commission put forward a proposal for €1.083 billion of expenditure, corresponding to 1.11% of european gross domestic product and an increase of 5% over the current programming period (2007-2013). in order to reduce the member states' contribution to the community budget by 40%, the european commission has put forward the possibility of creating own resources, which are enshrined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in this connection, i believe that the introduction of the financial transaction tax and the modernisation of vat should be considered appropriate, and that the current european resource of a part of national vat being collected by the member states should be abandoned. i am in favour of creating these own resources, provided that firms and households do not have to pay more for the products or services they purchase. i therefore agree with the statement by the president of the european commission that 'it is not a question of increasing the eu budget, but of giving it a stronger basis and reducing direct contributions from the member states'.
in writing. the creation of a new 'eu vat' as an 'own resource' is another federalist proposal which is a gross manipulation based on the false 'reduction of the share of member states' contributions'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. what we are advocating is that the countries with the highest gni should contribute proportionately more to the eu budget, introducing profound changes in their redistributive function and their priorities. this would be the most solidary way of obtaining own resources for the eu.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. the rules constituting the financial rules applicable to the union budget should be simplified so that organisations dealing with the budget of the european union, applying for different funds and grants from different areas, do not lose their benefit due to excessive bureaucracy, bearing in mind that easier access to central funds can be an extra lever at this time of crisis for many member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the proposed amendments to be balanced and relevant.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates greater efficiency and transparency in the eu's budget implementation mechanisms. in the current economic context, it is all the more important to ensure the proper use of european taxpayers' money and to strengthen the commission's accountability for the implementation of the budget, as provided for in article 317 tfeu.
in writing. - this report, drawn up by ingeborg gräßle and crescenzio rivellini, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial provisions applicable to the annual budget of the european union (eu). the budgetary principles and rules governing the establishment and implementation of the general budget of the eu are laid down in regulation (ec, euratom) no 1605/2002, but the implementing provisions were laid down in commission regulation (ec, euratom) no 2342/2002 of 23 december 2002 on the financial regulation applicable to the general budget of the european communities. at present, all regulations have to comply with the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). in these terms, and taking into account the report of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on regional development, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial provisions applicable to the annual budget of the european union.
in writing. - the commission proposal concerns the establishment of the legal framework for the establishment and implementation of the eu budget in all areas, both expenditure and revenue. among other things, it defines the scope of parliament's action on the establishment of the eu budget and deals with the evaluation and accountability of parliament as one of the two arms of the eu's budgetary authority. although we consider that greater transparency and accountability in the implementation of the eu budget is important and necessary, some of the articles in the proposal adopted today cannot be accepted by us. the european stability mechanism is introduced, thus providing guarantees for its financing. the final proposal extends the scope for public-private partnerships. the commission is also proposing to make the implementation of the budget more transparent and to make it more transparent. it also proposes the transfer of appropriations relating to projects financed under the connecting europe facility, which has project finance obligations as one of its financial instruments.
in writing. − the financial mechanisms available to the european union and the citizens of the member states must function efficiently to enable the implementation of european policies, while ensuring maximum transparency in the use of taxpayers' money. it is therefore essential that they are simple and transparent and that they reduce the administrative and bureaucratic burden faced by all beneficiaries of european funds. the amendments now made to the commission proposal, which are supported by the ppe group, bring about major improvements to that text and achieve the objective that everyone wants of a more agile, more dynamic and at the same time more transparent european union when it comes to the application and provision of the funds at its disposal.
in writing. - having regard to the report of the committee on budgets and the committee on budgetary control and the opinions of the committee on foreign affairs, the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on regional development, and having no objections, i voted in favour of the european parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the financial provisions applicable to the annual budget of the union.
in writing. − the regulations lay down rules for financial instruments, including the definition of their scope, control and reporting on the mechanisms and financial risks to the union budget. this refers to the eu, which, although one of the world's largest donors, has only been contributing to existing funds, whether the un or the world bank, resulting in little visibility of the union in terms of its performance and priorities. these new provisions thus give the commission autonomy to establish investment funds as an instrument of international cooperation - tools of the utmost importance for disaster relief and development aid operations. the budget rules also include a new feature, the 'incentive awards', which are an instrument to stimulate research projects. the report also calls for an extension of the reporting obligations of eu member states, especially as regards the use of the structural funds. the commission is given more rights and duties over national paying agencies and over the supervisory authorities. the audit rules and penalties for irregularities will also be improved, with a view to harmonising the complexity and number of financial rules. i voted in favour.
in writing. - article 317 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union stresses the importance of simple and transparent mechanisms, providing a catalytic effect for non-eu budgetary resources and at the same time reinforcing the european commission's accountability for budget implementation. i support this report because i agree that the rules and procedures for the european union's research framework programmes should be further simplified and harmonised, and that a risk of error should be indicated to promote sound financial management and adequate controls in the area of cohesion policy. finally, i believe it is essential that the budget should include the entry in the budget of the guarantee for borrowing and lending operations carried out by the european union in the framework of the management of the european financial stability facility (efsf) and the european financial stability mechanism (efsm), as well as the entry in the budget of transfers to the guarantee fund for external actions.
in writing. − we consider that greater transparency and accountability in the implementation of the eu budget is important and necessary, objectives which should of course guide this regulation. however, there are some aspects of this report which we strongly oppose: the european stability mechanism is introduced, giving it legitimacy and thus guaranteeing its financing. the final proposal also extends the scope for public-private partnerships by proposing that the commission 'entrust the implementation of the budget to public-private partnerships'. the introduction of this possibility is, in our view, unacceptable.
the rapporteur. - madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am the rapporteur for this report, but it is not my report, because i voted against it in the inta committee, which i chair. having made that statement, i shall briefly present the various issues involved with the utmost objectivity. the basic question is whether we should approve the trade agreement with israel under the mutual recognition of conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products, which this protocol already applies to pharmaceutical products but which allows it to be extended to all other products subject to conformity assessment and acceptance. the inta committee was divided between two irreconcilable views. first, a position against approval, in the name of the coherence of the union's external policies towards israel. it is pointless, this position argues, on the one hand to condemn strongly israeli policy towards the occupied territories and on the other hand to strengthen trade relations with israel. it is pointless to watch israel's contempt for our condemnation and then give israel the valuable prize in trade policy. it is pointless to be shocked by the deliberate policy of destroying the conditions for a two-state solution, as the union advocates, and then to support and encourage israel in relation to these same policies. the other position in inta was that, firstly, the protocol merely gives effect to the trade mechanism already provided for in the association agreement and that we should not mix the foreign policy and foreign trade policy plan. this is the position which won in inta against my draft report, albeit by a small majority. it is now up to the plenary and each of us to decide definitively on the question of substance. in addition to this basic question, there are two additional questions. the first concerns the territorial scope of the protocol. unfortunately, the protocol was not carefully negotiated and it is not clear whether or not it excludes products from the occupied territories. we must clarify this point, otherwise we will be breaking a red line of the european union, namely the non-recognition of the israeli integration of these territories. the proposal to ask the council for an interpretative statement on the subject is therefore justified. only the council can do that, because it is the council which, on behalf of the union, is bound by this protocol. our role here is only to give our assent to that council decision. so we can only ask the council to do so. however, without the council's clear commitment today and here (and by the way, i do not see the council here) that it will make that interpretative statement, our vote on this issue is irrelevant and ineffective. in any case, we are called upon to vote on this interpretative statement or this request for an interpretative vote. the third point relates to article 3 of the draft council decision which concluded the agreement on behalf of the union. in that provision, the council delegates to the commission the power to amend the agreement, including with regard to the products covered, without any further approval by parliament or the council. this is a genuine authorization to amend an international agreement, which we have voted on. however, the council still wants to keep control over these amendments through an ad hoc committee, while parliament will have no further role in the amendment of the agreement we are going to vote on here. there are three problems here, firstly, does it make sense to allow the commission to amend a trade agreement in such a substantial way? secondly, what is the legal basis in the treaty for the ad hoc committee which the council is proposing to monitor the commission in this matter? thirdly, and with this in mind, is it permissible for parliament to be ignored either in the delegation, in the control of the exercise of the delegated power or in the assessment of the amendments to the protocol which the commission is to negotiate with israel? the socialist group has already announced that it will ask the commission to withdraw this case in order to examine this matter. and this is an important point, and i do not think we can allow a precedent to be set in this matter.
blue-card question. – mr president, my question is a very simple one. article 2 of the association agreement to which this protocol is an additional arrangement says ‘relations between the two parties are based on respect for human rights’. does the house believe that israel is respecting the human rights of palestinians – stealing their lands, expelling them from their homes, preventing them from free circulation in their own land? is this respect for human rights? does the house feel that the conditions for an association agreement are being fulfilled by israel?
blue-card question. – madam president, i appreciate the experience of mr zahradil in this parliament and his serene and usually very balanced participation. i would like to put to him an objective question regarding the qualification of this agreement as a technical one. this is a not a technical agreement because, while it is about the removal of technical barriers to trade, the removal of some technical barriers is quite political. it will mean, for example, the removal of assessment controls and mutual recognition, which constitutes a high level of partnership and means that israeli exports will be fully integrated into the internal market. let me ask mr zahradil whether he does not agree that the benefits that israeli exporters will reap from this agreement will give them a significant edge over other exporters to the union. is that not a privilege?
the rapporteur. - mr president, two concluding remarks: first, there is not a day's delay in this proceeding due to any unilateral statement, position, or decision on my part. i was not the first rapporteur in this procedure, i was a rapporteur malgré moi and all the decisions, all the conduct of this procedure was made with full transparency and with the full agreement of the committee. the accusation made against me by a representative of the israeli interests in this parliament is not only stupid, it disqualifies the person who made it. secondly, my objection to this agreement, my initial position as rapporteur, has nothing to do with israeli policy, it has to do with ours and with the consistency which the treaty requires of our foreign policies to be consistent with each other. my position has always been that it is the coherence of the union's external policies that is at stake and i do not see how it is possible that we can at the same time condemn israel for what israel is doing in relation to the occupied territories and then when we have an opportunity to put pressure on israel to comply with our condemnations we give it a prize of this nature. tomorrow israel will laugh, and with pleasure, at our political positions because it knows that it is only libre service, it is hypocrisy and when it comes to carrying them out we are not capable of carrying them out. finally, a personal statement: i do not belong to any anti-israel movement, i do not belong to any association of friends of the palestinians, i do not owe anything to any of the parties, i repeat, i do not owe anything to any of the parties, and i would like those who have spoken in this debate to be able to say the same with the same frankness.
in writing. − i voted in favour because i consider that draft amending budget no 4 to the 2012 general budget has a triple objective, namely the creation of four budget lines to reallocate up to 10% of the appropriations allocated to the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund 2007-2013 to risk-sharing mechanisms, a revision and budgeting of the own funds forecasts, which results in a change in the distribution of their contributions to the eu budget among the member states. in addition, draft amending budget no 4/2012 provides for the possibility for amounts recovered or remaining from union support for risk-sharing mechanisms financed under cohesion policy to be added in the following year, at the request of the member state concerned, to its financial allocation for cohesion policy. however, i would stress that any transfer of cohesion policy appropriations to the financial mechanisms to be defined must be duly justified and well controlled, as provided for in regulation (eu) no 423/2012.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it contains no objection to the council's position on draft amending budget no 4/2012 of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iii commission.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support draft amending budget no 4/2012 presented by the european council without amendments. it is necessary to ensure that parliament has regular and detailed access to information on operational programmes whose appropriations are being reduced, on the financial mechanisms to be implemented and on the projects to be supported in this field.
in writing. − on 1 december 2011, the european parliament (ep) finally adopted the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2011. we all know that budgetary executions never fully correspond to the amounts approved, either because of the unpredictability of the revenue collected or because of unforeseen expenditure. to avoid these situations, there are so-called amending budgets which allow the initial appropriations to be corrected. draft amending budget no 4 to the general budget of the eu for the year 2012 provides for the creation of four budget lines in order to reallocate up to 10% of the appropriations allocated to the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund for 2007 to 2013 to 'risk-sharing mechanisms, a revision and budgeting of the capital estimates', and to replace the 'pass' entered under the payment appropriations of budget line 16 03 05 01 (preparatory work) 'euroglobe' by a pro memoria entry (p.m.) to enable a transfer to be made. the draft is in line with the amendments to the financial regulation agreed between the ep and the council, and i therefore vote in favour of this report by mrs francesca balzani.
in writing. − the adoption of this amending budget (no 4/2012) aims to provide budgetary cover for the provisions which have enabled the creation of a 'risk-sharing mechanism', based on an authorisation for a transfer of capital from the structural and cohesion funds from the member states to the european commission, i.e. the transfer of part of the financial allocations made available to countries in difficulty which thus reduce the remaining global allocations. the majority of parliament thus supports the concentration of capital in the european investment bank to cover the expected and unforeseen losses resulting from loans and guarantees. the so-called risk-sharing is established between the eib and other national or international financial institutions, public or private, which will grant the loans to project sponsors and banks, with a view to providing private co-financing for projects implemented with the contributions of the structural funds and the cohesion fund. other avenues existed and could have been followed to overcome the existing constraints on the private investment side. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. as we have already pointed out in the debate on this mechanism, we are faced with another exercise of european 'solidarity' sui generis.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 4 to the 2012 general budget has a threefold objective, namely the creation of four budget lines to reallocate up to 10% of the appropriations allocated to the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund 2007-2013 to risk-sharing mechanisms, a revision and budgeting of the own funds forecasts, resulting in a change in the distribution of their contributions to the eu budget among the member states. i think it is important, however, that parliament should be regularly and fully informed about the operational programmes whose appropriations are being reduced, the financial mechanisms to be implemented and the projects to be supported.
in writing. - having no objection to the council's position on draft amending budget no 4/2012 of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iii commission, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the report approves, without amendments, the council's position on draft amending budget no 4/2012. the most relevant aspect to note is the parliament's resolution, which requires any transfer from cohesion policy to financial instruments to be justified and monitored, and all relevant information to be provided in a timely manner.
in writing. the proposal for a revision of the eu budget aims to authorize the use of the remaining cohesion policy appropriations to cover the risks arising from guarantees on loans granted by financial institutions, thus creating 'risk-sharing mechanisms'. i am voting in favour of the document, since this proposal will enable countries such as portugal and greece, assisted by the imf, the ecb and the european commission, to carry out projects which are indispensable for stimulating economic activity, creating jobs and attracting private investment. it should also be noted that these risk-sharing mechanisms will allow projects co-financed by the european regional development fund or the cohesion fund, which are currently blocked due to financial constraints, to be launched, all within a framework of great rigour and democratic control by the european parliament with regard to these financial instruments.
in writing. - this report approves the amending budget which allows the creation of a 'risk-sharing mechanism' which can be achieved by transferring capital from the structural and cohesion funds to this mechanism. we are therefore faced with a decision which supports the concentration of capital in the european investment bank to cover the expected and unforeseen losses resulting from loans and guarantees. this decision once again reflects the political priorities of the eu, which regularly invokes 'solidarity' as a flag but makes it a dead letter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that discharge is an effective instrument of the european parliament, which requires a decision based on concrete and relevant arguments. appropriate measures shall be taken in the event of non-compliance with the provisions in force. i believe that in such cases the easa should draw up an action plan with a precise timetable to correct the deficiencies and that its implementation should be monitored by the european parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of having nothing to oppose to the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european food safety authority for the implementation of the latter's budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on 'return 2010: european food safety authority' because i believe that the authority has taken important steps to respond effectively to potential conflicts of interest and thus continue to ensure food safety in the eu in an independent and transparent way.
in writing. − the european food safety authority (efsa) was set up with the aim of improving food safety across the european union by ensuring a high level of consumer protection so that consumers have confidence in europe's food products. it is involved in the whole food chain, from food safety for animals intended for human consumption to plant protection and plant health. the present report concerns the discharge for the implementation of the easa budget for the financial year 2010, following the decision of the european parliament of 10 may 2012 to postpone the decision on discharge for the implementation of the financial year for that year in the light of the issues raised by the court of auditors, notwithstanding the court of auditors' statement that it 'has obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 are reliable and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular'. taking into account the clarifications provided by the authority and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, i am voting in favour of this report to give discharge to the easa budget for the year 2010.
in writing. − due to possible conflicts of interest and a revolving door case, the discharge to the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2010 was not granted in may this year. however, in this second report many of the obvious problems have been solved. highlighting the fact that the authority proposed to its board of directors to elect its chairman by public vote, which has been by appointment until now, in order to avoid what happened to the previous chairman, who accepted the position without stating that he was also chairman of the board of directors of an institute funded by food companies. we therefore consider that it is possible to approve the closure of easa's accounts.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with the exception of a few exceptions to be assessed by the known audits, it can be said that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the proposed objectives. that is why i voted in favour of the report by the european food safety authority.
in writing. - having no objection to the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european food safety authority in respect of the implementation of the latter's budget for the financial year 2010, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report, at second reading, authorises discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa), as the problems identified at first reading have been clarified. easa has made efforts to address its structural problems, in particular in the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. the report states that many of the problems which prevented the ep from approving the discharge to the european food safety authority (efsa) last may have been solved. we are talking about the fact that the authority has proposed to its board of directors that its chairman be elected by public vote, which has so far been by appointment. we therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of having nothing to object to the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european medicines agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on 'receipt 2010: european medicines agency' because i believe that the agency has taken important steps to respond effectively to potential conflicts of interest and thus continue to ensure the safety and efficacy of medicines in the eu in an independent and transparent manner.
in writing. − the report under review, by monica luisa macovei, deals with the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency (ema) for the financial year 2010, following the decision of the european parliament of 10 may 2012 to postpone the decision in view of the issues raised by the court of auditors. the emea, which was set up in 1993 but only became operational in 1995, aims to protect and promote public and animal health through the evaluation and supervision of medicinal products for human and/or veterinary use. no medicinal product may be placed on the market without the favourable opinion of the agency. the court of auditors' report, although it made some observations on transitions, information technology contracts and payment systems, considered that the eea's accounts for the financial year 2010 'are reliable, legal and regular'. i therefore vote in favour of this report, taking into account the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, whose recommendations i wholeheartedly support, and in favour of the discharge for the 2010 budget of the eea.
in writing. − in may 2012, parliament refused to give the discharge for the 2010 financial year to the european medicines agency (ema) because of clear irregularities in the recruitment process, a 'revolving door' situation and a conflict of interest between senior staff and experts. in this second report, the agency made progress in addressing these issues by improving 'the scope and methodology of systematic ex-ante and ex-post controls related to the examination of declarations of interests'. we therefore voted to close the accounts of aem.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. that is why i voted in favour of the report by the european medicines agency.
in writing. - having no objection to the discharge to be given to the executive director of the european medicines agency for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i am voting in favour of the discharge for the european medicines agency for the year 2010, underlining the efforts made by this agency. i would also like to emphasize the role of the agency in providing scientific advice on the evaluation of the quality, safety and efficacy of medicines for human and veterinary use in the eu.
in writing. − in may 2012, parliament refused to give the discharge for the 2010 financial year to the european medicines agency (ema) because of clear irregularities in the recruitment process, with a conflict of interest between senior staff and experts. however, the rapporteur considers that these issues have been resolved, concerning declarations of interests, and we therefore voted in favour of closing the accounts of the eea.
in writing. - i voted in favour of having nothing to oppose to the commission's proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'forest reproductive material', as it introduces important updates concerning the rules on the equivalence of forest reproductive material produced in third countries and the conditions for importing it into the union.
in writing. - the present report, by paolo de castro, concerns the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council amending council decision 2008/971/ec as regards the inclusion of forest reproductive material in the category 'qualified material' (seeds and plants for planting) in the scope of application of that decision and the updating of the name of the authorities responsible for the approval and control of production. council decision 2008/971/ec established the list of countries to which equivalence was recognised for the import of forest reproductive material and defined the conditions under which it could be imported into the european union. considering the need to facilitate trade in forest reproductive material in order to meet market demand and taking into account the favourable opinion of the european economic and social committee of 18 september 2012 on the proposed text, i am voting in favour of this report which makes it possible to import seeds and plants for planting of the categories set out in annex ii from third countries listed in annex i, provided that they are officially certified by the authorities of those countries.
in writing. - the report approves the commission proposal to amend the council decision on the inclusion of forest reproductive material in the category 'qualified material' and the updating of the name of the authorities responsible for production approval and control. the decision determines the conditions under which forest reproductive material of the categories 'identified source material', 'selected material' and 'qualified material' is imported into the union. this update aims to liberalize the marketing of these forestry materials, particularly in the case of plantations of fast-growing trees for energy/biomass production - the aspect that gives rise to our greatest reservations. the commission's intention to include forestry and agricultural plants and seeds in a single directive is seen by the sector's organisations as another obstacle to its development. we have therefore already warned the commission of the consequences of the application of this legislation for national operators in the sector. the requirements imposed on agricultural material cannot and should not be the same as those imposed on forestry material, because naturally, as part of the food chain, agricultural material has completely different rules. the amendments in question do not constitute protection for small producers but rather a cause for increased concern.
in writing. - i vote in favour of this report, which proposes adopting a simplified procedure for the commission's proposal for the inclusion of forest reproductive material in the 'qualified' category, and also updating the names of the authorities responsible for the recognition and control of production.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's position with a view to adopting a decision of the european parliament and of the council amending council decision 2008/971/ec with a view to facilitating trade transactions, in particular as regards the import of forest reproductive material in the category 'qualified material', and to responding more quickly to market demand in the forestry sector. the adoption of this legislative decision will also allow the updating of the information available on the names of the authorities responsible for the approval and control of forest production.
in writing. − council decision 2008/971/ec provided the list of countries to be recognised for the application of the principle of equivalence for import, and also determined the conditions under which forest reproductive material of the categories 'identified sources' and 'selected sources' produced in these countries may be imported into the union. all this based on new information received from the oecd on the adoption of a revised scheme for the certification of forest reproductive material for trade.
in writing. − council decision 2008/971/ec on the inclusion of forest reproductive material in the category 'qualified material' within the scope of that decision and updating the name of the authorities responsible for approval and control of production contains a list of countries eligible for an import equivalence scheme. it also sets out the conditions for a forest material to be considered 'qualified material' and 'selected material'. the committee on agriculture supported the commission's proposal for a council decision, which was voted in favour by me in the european parliament's plenary session.
in writing. - in this report, parliament endorses the european commission's proposal to amend the council decision on the inclusion of forest reproductive material in the category 'qualified material', with the aim of liberalizing the marketing of such forest material, particularly in the case of plantations of fast-growing trees for energy/biomass production. apart from this matter, which is of the greatest concern to us, we consider that the amendments in question do not constitute protection for small producers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, recalling that 20 years ago the maastricht treaty came into force, introducing the concept of 'citizenship of the union', which is worth noting with expressions of european sentiment. it is therefore important to convey the objectives of raising awareness of the rights and responsibilities that are linked to citizenship of the union: citizens can exercise their rights to free movement and to civic and democratic participation.
in writing. − the maastricht treaty established european citizenship, with the aim of strengthening and enhancing european identity and enabling european citizens to participate actively in the process of european integration. however, problems and obstacles remain, such as a lack of visibility of union citizenship and a lack of awareness of the tangible benefits it brings to eu citizens. participatory democracy and the new rights resulting from the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, for example the right of initiative of citizens, should therefore be given greater emphasis. agrees with the need for information, education and awareness-raising campaigns accessible to all citizens; the preparation of an action plan for the run-up to the european year in collaboration with all member states, the eu institutions, civil society, and the organisation by the european parliament of a pan-european campaign on union citizenship in 2013 in collaboration with national parliaments. the european year of citizenship 2013 paves the way for the new 'europe for citizens' programme (2014-2020), which will promote actions to increase citizens' awareness and understanding of the eu. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the european year of citizens will make an important contribution to promoting and deepening knowledge of the rights and responsibilities associated with citizenship of the european union in order to enable citizens to make full use of their right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states.
in writing. - the europe we want to be proud of is the one that puts people first, that is not limited to the common market, that puts citizens at the centre of european policies. i therefore welcome the designation of 2013 (20th anniversary of the institution of citizenship of the union in maastricht) as the european year of citizens, with the aim of ensuring that all citizens are aware of the rights that assist them in a cross-border context. in 2009, the number of union citizens living in a member state other than their own was estimated at almost 12 million, with 35% of citizens considering the possibility of working in another member state. however, much remains to be done to bridge the gap between the legal rules ensuring the free movement of union citizens and the obstacles faced by union citizens in practice, namely the lack of visibility of union citizenship and its concrete benefits for citizens. it is essential to promote greater visibility of the impact and potential that the right of free movement, as an inalienable aspect of eu citizenship, can have in terms of strengthening social cohesion, mutual understanding, non-discrimination and the creation of a common european identity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report for supporting the designation of 2013 as the european year of citizens. most citizens are not aware of the rights that come with european citizenship. in the current context of disbelief in europe, more than ever, there is a need to raise awareness of these rights and to use next year's campaigns to better inform about the potential that european provisions can have for improving people's living conditions.
in writing. - i believe in a better europe, and i welcome the adoption of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council to designate 2013 as the 'european year of citizens' and i hope that this event will contribute to a greater awareness among europeans of the benefits of this project. at the time of the 20th anniversary of the signing of the maastricht treaty, all europeans should be informed about the content of the 'european charter of fundamental rights'. i would also like to welcome the award of the 'nobel peace prize' to the european union (eu), which, in addition to raising the self-esteem of europeans, represents recognition of the work done by the eu institutions in consolidating peace in various conflict regions. europe is an area of free movement of people and goods, where, without losing our national identities, we feel imbued with a spirit of brotherhood and solidarity which we must spread. many european citizens are unaware of their rights as such. the 'european year of citizens' will therefore be an excellent opportunity to carry out information and awareness-raising campaigns on this project in order to make european citizens more aware and participatory.
in writing. − the report advocates the establishment of the european year of citizens (2013), with a view to raising awareness of citizenship rights in the eu. unfortunately, the current political, economic and social context could not be more at odds with a certain vision - which the report welcomes - of the eu as an area of democracy, equality, solidarity and citizen participation. this vision is daily contradicted by the practice, policies and guidelines that the eu has been imposing on various peoples and countries, as is the case with portugal. an unprecedented attack on democracy and citizens' rights is under way. the eu is increasingly a place of inequality, exploitation and the withdrawal of the rights that peoples have won over centuries of struggle. in this eu of free movement of capital and goods, at the service of international monopolies, the 'free' movement of people is determined by the harsh reality of millions of workers who cannot stay in their own country for lack of employment and are obliged to look elsewhere for a livelihood for their families.
in writing. − in a europe that has always shown itself to be preoccupied with its economic and monetary agenda, forgetting about the people, even when that agenda threatens to ruin europe itself and crush the lives of many citizens, the initiative to declare 2013 the european year of citizens is good news. moreover, given that 2013 is the year before the next european elections, it could be a good strategy to bring citizens closer to europe and european issues beyond the markets. we hope that this will also be an opportunity to discuss a real concept of european citizenship which can include all those who reside in the european area and less europe fortress. the european year of citizens cannot be a matter of a few against many.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this report, in which i have expressed my vote in favour. the creation of a 'european year of citizens' is an excellent way of raising awareness of the rights, but also responsibilities, that are associated with european citizenship. the initiatives taken to achieve the objectives set out in the legislative text are to be welcomed, but the idea that citizens themselves should also play an active role in strengthening these rights through their participation in civil society should be emphasised.
in writing. − raising awareness among the general public of the rights and responsibilities associated with union citizenship is essential if both the rights and duties arising from european citizenship are to be effectively fulfilled. only by exercising these rights can the remaining obstacles to this level be identified and eliminated. it is therefore up to the european citizens themselves to play a key role in strengthening these rights through their participation in civil society and democratic life, and it is up to the european institutions to promote awareness-raising campaigns such as this one on the european year of citizens. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report, while deploring the drastic cut in the budget for this initiative, which is a key issue for the democratic culture of the union.
in writing. − the year 2013 will be designated as the european year of citizens, the overall purpose of which is to ensure that all citizens of the union are aware of the rights which they enjoy, in a crossborder context, by virtue of their status as european citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. while member states have the primary responsibility for raising awareness, appropriate action to address this problem requires multilateral collaboration, information exchange, union-wide experience and the dissemination of transnational best practices. this awareness-raising campaign, which aims to remove the many obstacles still remaining to the exercise of the rights of european citizenship, is of great importance. only more and better information can help europeans to make use of their rights. i voted in favour.
in writing. - article 20 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes citizenship of the union, stating that 'a citizen of the union is any person who is a national of a member state. citizenship of the union shall be additional to, and not replace, national citizenship.' over the last few years, a number of problems and obstacles to citizens' civic participation in activities related to the construction of the european project have been identified. it is essential to promote projects that increasingly involve citizens in general and young people in particular in the civic and political component. i support the proposal to establish 2013 as the 'european year of citizens' with the general objective of raising citizens' awareness of the rights linked to union citizenship in order to help them make full use of their right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. however, i think the designation 'european year of citizenship' is more appropriate and i think it is essential that the budget of eur 1 million allocated to the initiative be substantially increased.
in writing. − this report supports the establishment of the european year of citizens (2013) with the stated aim of raising awareness of citizenship rights in the eu. in our view, the celebration of the european year of citizens (2013) is nothing more than a strategy of the eu to try to legitimize the idea of the eu as an area of democracy, equality, solidarity and citizen participation at a time when the european institutions lack public credibility. the eu is not really a place where people can move freely, and this initiative, albeit in a disguised way, is an apology for the single market as a place of freedom. in view of the difficult situation facing workers today and the need for emigration to cope with unemployment in their home countries, we introduced in the opinion of the committee on employment and social affairs the idea of the need to defend workers' rights in the field of social security and trade union rights, and that the movement of workers should not be interpreted by certain employers as an opportunity to reduce wages, social protection or to degrade working conditions in general.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the assumptions and content of the report.
in writing. the report under review, by mrs kristiina ojuland, concerns the proposal for a european parliament (ep) recommendation to the council on the establishment of common visa restrictions for russian officials involved in the sergei magnitsky case. sergei magnitsky was a brave russian lawyer who died in a russian prison, the victim of mistreatment, where he was detained after being arrested for fighting corruption in russia. despite all efforts by the russian government to have this case properly investigated and those responsible tried by an independent tribunal, the truth is that despite the promises made by the rulers, nothing has been done and this case continues to be part of the summits with that country. this image of lack of freedom and credibility undermines the consolidation of the democratic process, driving away investors, consolidated by russia's accession to the world trade organization (wto). i voted in favour of this report and i urge the russian authorities to resolve this human rights violation quickly in the interests of the russian community itself.
in writing. - the debate and adoption of this report is another step in the process of interfering with the legal and constitutional system of a sovereign country, which raises serious reservations and is hardly acceptable in the context of normal and healthy relations between independent and sovereign states. whatever one may think of the political and social situation in russia, this is the use of a court case to attack that country and its sovereignty at a political moment when that country, in the framework of the un security council, is opposed to military aggression against syria, and therefore constitutes a clear form of blackmail and political retaliation.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated. the detention, conditions of detention and subsequent death in prison of sergei magnitsky are evidence of the disregard for fundamental human rights by a member state of the council of europe, which has committed itself to full respect for fundamental rights and all the principles inherent in the rule of law. i therefore consider that the restriction on the issuing of visas to russian officials involved in the case described here is a necessary and entirely legitimate foreign policy instrument, a political signal of the eu's concern about the frequent violations of human rights in russia.
in writing. - on the assumption that this is an exceptional measure, and without prejudice to the assumptions and content of this report which justifies and substantiates the exceptional nature of this measure establishing common restrictions on the issuing of visas to certain individuals, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − without the russian authorities' respect for the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, as noted in the tragic case of the death of sergei magnisky, it is not possible to develop a stable and reliable partnership between the eu and russia. while the restrictive measures proposed in the report do not constitute traditional judicial sanctions per se, they should nonetheless serve as a political signal of the eu's concern, a signal sent to a wider public, aimed at hopefully awakening the russian authorities to develop genuine and renewed efforts to approach, hopefully, the rule of law issue in russia in a more concrete and convincing way.
in writing. - the magnitsky case is another example of the violation of the rule of law in the russian federation, as there was a clear abuse of power, in particular of the judicial authorities. following several appeals by the eu and the osce to establish the true facts, russian judicial authorities acquitted the officials involved and sentenced sergei magnitsky posthumously, in clear violation of international and national law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. − regardless of whether the detention of any citizen in any country in the world is justified or not, we believe that it is up to each country and its judicial system to guarantee its citizens access to the law and to the courts to defend their legally protected rights and interests. the detention, conditions of detention and subsequent death in custody of russian citizen sergei magnitsky are inserted in this principle. we are faced with a clear interference in the legal and constitutional system of a sovereign country which we cannot and must not accept in the name of cooperation between independent and sovereign states. this is the use of a judicial case to attack russia and its sovereignty at a political moment when russia, in the framework of the un security council, is opposed to military aggression against syria, and therefore constitutes a clear form of blackmail and political retaliation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the recent commission document on 'the implementation of the single sky legislation'. the urgent need for progress should be highlighted, as well as the greater need for political support, in order to ensure a successful and timely implementation of the ess legislation. other key issues in this report include the implementation of functional airspace and the blocks to the deployment of sesar technology, both of which are essential for the functioning of the single european sky.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the full and timely deployment of the ees will bring significant benefits to the member states, as all indications are that it should have positive effects on the economy, employment and the environment.
in writing. − at present, european airspace is one of the busiest in the world, with over 750 million passengers using eu airports. in the face of the continuing increase in air traffic, it is essential to complete the single european sky legislation as soon as possible in order to avoid congestion of european airspace and to ensure a high quality of air services for european citizens, while also enabling significant savings in economic, environmental and safety terms, creating a more sustainable aviation sector and a more effective air traffic management system at european level. while there has been much positive progress in the right direction, much remains to be done to achieve full and timely implementation in order to avoid any operational or safety risks caused by increasingly intense flows, outdated technologies and the fragmentation of european airspace. timely implementation should also allow the eu to maintain its competitiveness, foster new momentum in this area, foster growth and jobs, especially in the aeronautics and aviation sectors, and contribute significantly to the reduction of co2 emissions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the implementation of the single european sky legislation, which stresses the need for concrete measures to overcome the obstacles and ensure the timely implementation of this legislation.
in writing. − at present, each member state manages its airspace in conjunction with neighbouring countries. this uncoordinated management of european airspace has an estimated cost of four billion euros per year. the european union has been focusing for many years on the need to implement a centralised management of european airspace with obvious consequences for everyone: safety, speed and economy. in 2004, the european commission launched a very ambitious initiative to reshape air traffic, creating the sesar programme, the technological pillar of the single european sky. after these years, it is clear that progress has not been as expected, and it is therefore urgent to raise awareness among member states so that they can overcome the difficulties in implementing it. the european technological and economic development is at stake (job creation, reduction of co2 emissions, greater security, increased tourism, more competitive industry, etc.). i voted in favour of the report by my colleague jacqueline foster on the implementation of the single european sky legislation because we need a well-organised airspace - where safety is the order of the day - and because the implementation of this legislation will make an important contribution to the future of europe.
in writing. - this report aims to accelerate the process of creating the 'single european sky', identifying the need to set 'binding deadlines' for its implementation. the report is based on two main principles: 1. clear pressure on member states to implement the legislation on the 'single european sky', even going so far as to propose that the commission take punitive measures against countries which have not yet met the deadlines. 2. an excessive propaganda campaign on the alleged advantages of the 'single european sky': the european parliament has been a very active participant in the debate on the future of the european union. the absence of any justification for these alleged advantages is manifest and confrontational. the report conceals the real aims of the single sky: national subordination, reduction in the price of labour and increase in the profits of the large companies. it also states that progress in the field of better coordination and use of airspace can and must be achieved within the framework of maintaining the sovereignty of each state over its own airspace - an essential issue for the defence of the specific interests of each country, whether in the field of commercial aviation or in the field of defence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the single european sky legislation. the single european sky will contribute to the creation of a more sustainable aviation sector and a more effective air traffic management system at european level. it will have competitive gains across the eu and even globally, boosting growth and jobs, especially in the aeronautics and aviation sectors. i believe that this issue should be given increased priority in order to develop efforts to develop and implement the legislation in question.
in writing. - the desired legislation on the single european sky (ses) should be implemented. the studies indicate that the ses will bring economic and competitive advantages, benefiting all actors, including the final consumer, i.e. the passenger, through reduced user charges. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - one of the most urgent challenges to be tackled is the fragmentation of european airspace. the industry providing air traffic control closely mirrors the geographical boundaries of its countries, each of which has at least one air navigation service provider (asp). this fragmented national approach needs to be replaced in order to increase efficiency and reduce congestion. the report supports public-private partnerships, and the favourable relationship between both parties along the entire sector chain, using incentives to encourage commitment, and bringing numerous socioeconomic benefits.
in writing. − the achievement of the single european sky (ses) will bring the entire aviation sector, and directly and indirectly related sectors, competitive advantages and significant growth for a turbulent period in europe's history. if single european sky traffic management (sesar) is implemented, it is estimated to have a cumulative impact on eu gdp of €419 billion, create 328 000 jobs and reduce 50 million tonnes of co2. on the other hand, air traffic is about to reach its maximum capacity, putting aviation operations and safety at risk. it is time to apply all the investment made in ses and sesar to the modernisation of european aviation and to the elimination of the fragmentation of airspace, which is still divided like the borders of european countries. a strong and efficient european aviation, capable of competing internationally, will bring enormous economic advantages to the member states.
in writing. - the process of creating the 'single european sky' is under way. that is, an attack on national sovereignty, more national subordination, predictable reduction of the workforce and increase in profits for the big companies. what also worries us about this project are the militaristic designs involved, when it refers to 'the military community as one of the main actors in the framework of the single european sky', which may mean that this process has, in addition to the economic objectives of privatising the 'sky', objectives of military control in the service of the interests that command the destinies of the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour because i agree with the specific passenger rights listed in the communication as a step forward in building fundamental rights across all modes of transport. the establishment of guidelines on the application and implementation of these rights is one of the main calls for improving their implementation in the short term. a single transversal regulation on passenger rights as a whole remains a medium-term vision. passenger rights are at the heart of our transport policy and there is a need for better information and transparency for citizens on these rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to strengthen the application of the existing provisions on passenger rights and to improve them where necessary.
in writing. − over the last 10 years, we have been creating a set of eu passenger rights, regardless of the mode of transport, to ensure a minimum level of protection, facilitating mobility and at the same time creating a level playing field for carriers. unfortunately, we do not always see the full and correct application of these rights, either by the carriers or by the national authorities. it is therefore urgent to review the legislation in force in order to make it clearer and to strengthen passengers' rights, in particular the right to information on their rights and how they can exercise them. the effective and efficient enforcement of these rights can only be ensured if there is active and effective control by the national enforcement bodies. passenger rights are thus based on three pillars: non-discrimination, accurate, timely and accessible information, and prompt and proportionate assistance. i therefore support this initiative, which, as one of the measures provided for in the communications on a single market act, lists the rights and principles applicable to all modes of transport, taking account of the distinctions due to the specific characteristics of each mode of transport, and identifies the areas where greater convergence should be achieved, as well as the existing gaps.
in writing. − mobility is one of the pillars of modern society and has been strongly encouraged, not only among young people see the success of the erasmus programme but also in business terms (de-location and internationalisation) and as a way of overcoming the economic and financial crisis. in fact, over the last few years there has been a significant increase in passengers carried with a highlight for aviation due to the concept of 'low cost'. with the increase in the number of passengers carried, we are seeing an increase in problems in this sector. every day we see hundreds of cancelled or delayed transport that put passengers (workers, students, tourists, etc.) in very complicated situations. sometimes passengers are not aware of their rights, perhaps through negligence on the part of the carriers themselves, particularly in relation to assistance services in the event of cancellation of a journey or transport. also, information is not always correct, clear and available in several languages. i voted in favour because i agree with the need to implement a regulatory framework which guarantees respect for passenger rights, in particular facilitated access to information and support services.
in writing. − the document sets out a set of passenger rights applicable to all modes of transport, to ensure a minimum level of protection in the eu. it addresses the criteria for compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation or significant delays, and the liability of airlines in the event of baggage problems. it is also intended to ensure the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility in air transport with regard to access, information and appropriate training. in rail transport, improvements are being made in the protection of passengers and their luggage, as well as in the area of delays and accidents. however, it is worrying that these rights could be called into question, for example, considering that it is considered 'essential to balance the need to respect passenger rights in bus services in rural areas and ... to ensure that the charges are not so considerable as to render such services unviable in the future'. the absence of a single reference to public transport services - an essential means of ensuring the maintenance of the transport needed to link isolated regions and localities and to guarantee the full rights of passengers and the population - is symptomatic.
in writing. − for some years now, the eu has been developing a set of eu passenger rights, regardless of the mode of transport, in order to achieve a higher level of protection, facilitate mobility and, at the same time, create conditions for a competitive market for all carriers. however, full use of all these rights has not always been possible, largely due to the fault of the actors, carriers and national authorities. we must therefore review this legislation to make it clearer, thereby strengthening passengers' rights, particularly as regards the right to information on their rights and how they can exercise them. passenger rights must be based on three pillars: non-discrimination, accurate, timely and accessible information, and immediate assistance.
in writing. − this report refers to the commission's communication which sets out a list of rights applicable to all modes of transport, which, taken together, ensure a minimum level of protection for passengers (in the broad sense) in the eu. this report considers the strengthening of the application of the existing provisions on passenger rights and the need to improve them where appropriate. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the report calls for improvements in several areas, calling in particular for the creation of a single cross-cutting regulation on passenger rights for all modes of transport, to be implemented in the medium term. the report also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the eu's airspace is not used for illegal purposes. the rights of citizens with reduced mobility or disabilities are also considered in this report. i voted in favour of the proposed measures.
in writing. − access to information on passenger rights should be simple, clear and transparent, from the moment of booking or purchase to the end of the journey. it is important that passengers have all the help they need in the event of problems with their travel or loss or damage to their luggage. information on costs and prices of services shall be clear and accessible from the beginning of the procedure. we cannot but support measures which promote and facilitate information and transparency and thus ensure passenger rights.
in writing. − passenger rights in the eu have been evolving steadily and progressively. the air and rail passenger rights are already in place, and those relating to sea/river and bus transport will come into force in december 2012 and march 2013 respectively. what i would like to stress in this document is the need for transparency of the information provided, from the moment of booking until the end of the journey. in any mode of transport, there must be a point of contact. on the other hand, companies should be held liable in the event of insolvency and the concept of 'extraordinary circumstances' should be better applied. finally, it is important to emphasise the rights of persons with reduced mobility, who should receive a service adapted to their needs.
in writing. − this report aims to identify some of the rights of passengers in all modes of transport, such as the criteria for compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation or significant delays, and the liability of airlines when there are problems with luggage. it is also intended to ensure the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility in air transport with regard to access, information and appropriate training. these, like other aspects, are essential. however, it is extremely worrying that there is not a single reference in the whole report to public transport services, which are an essential means of ensuring the maintenance and guaranteeing of the right to non-profit-making mobility, providing transport in isolated regions and localities for the benefit of the population.
in writing. - i voted in favour because this text sets out the kinds of procedures that must be adopted to allow proper scrutiny of this part of the budget to take place to show how the council has used its budget. unfortunately, the questions from parliament have not been answered for 2010. although the danish presidency made efforts to move forward, there were no concrete results or follow-up from the council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of agreeing to the refusal of discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. - the report under consideration, by inés ayala sender, deals with the discharge for implementation of the general budget of the european union (eu) for the financial year 2010, section ii council. the council of the eu is the institution whose task is to adopt eu legislation, coordinate economic policies and cooperation between courts and police forces, sign agreements between the eu and third countries, approve the eu's annual budget and define external and defence policies. the council, notwithstanding its powers, also has obligations, in particular as regards interinstitutional cooperation with the european parliament, especially as regards the supervision of budget implementation. at its meeting on 12 may 2012, a proposal was adopted to postpone the granting of discharge to the secretary-general of the council in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2010. notwithstanding the explanations given by the secretary-general of the council and the measures taken to mitigate the criticisms made by the court of auditors of the 2010 discharge, i am voting in favour of the proposal to refuse this discharge.
in writing. the rapporteur proposes in this second report that the decision on discharge to the council's budget be postponed once again. this delay is based, once again, on the council's lack of transparency and accountability, which is the reason for the long-running dispute between the two institutions - parliament and council. the report is very critical of the council's position, which continues to excuse itself from sending all the documents relating to budget implementation, from meeting or answering parliament's questions on this subject. parliament thus has no knowledge of the council's accounts, despite its participation in the discharge procedure. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the european union. we supported this report.
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. however, according to the rapporteur, this is not the case for the general budget of the eu, for the council, since there are again several irregularities and inability to present its accounts, hence my vote.
in writing. - without prejudice to the reasons for refusing the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2010, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the council's excessive budgetary allocation for the purchase of real estate, the breach of the principle of budgetary truth (taking into account the opinion of the court of auditors of the european union), the refusal to make available all the documents necessary for the discharge of its accounts, the refusal to answer 26 questions from the committee on budgetary control of the european parliament concerning the discharge procedure, leads to the conclusion that there is a negative attitude of the council towards democratic control and transparency towards the taxpayers of the european union. the council, as an institution of the european union, must submit to an evaluation of management by the committee on budgetary control and cooperate with it at all levels. for the reasons set out above, i voted in favour of the document, which expressly proposes to refuse to discharge the council's accounts.
in writing. − the rapporteur's proposal to postpone the decision to grant discharge to the council's budget (2010) is based, once again, on the council's lack of transparency and accountability, which is the reason for the long-standing dispute between the two institutions. without the council's answer to the questions which parliament needs to know in a transparent way and to close the council's accounts, the rapporteur continues to refuse the secretary-general of the council discharge for the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010, a position which we supported.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, welcoming the agency's transparency with regard to the declarations of interest of its management team and acknowledging the agency's efforts to address concerns regarding the prevention and management of conflicts of interest.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i think that the director of the european environment agency should be given a discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted against the report on 'receipt 2010: european environment agency' because i believe that, contrary to the rapporteur's position, the agency has taken important steps to respond effectively to potential conflicts of interest and thus continue to fulfil its mission of providing coherent and independent information on the environment in the eu in a transparent manner.
in writing. − the report under review, by monica luisa macovei, deals with the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2010, following the decision of the european parliament of 10 may 2012 to postpone the decision in view of the issues raised by the court of auditors. the eea, which was set up in 1993, currently has 32 members: the 27 member states of the european union plus norway, switzerland, liechtenstein, iceland and turkey. its aim is to help the eu and national governments make informed decisions on the environment. the court of auditors, in its report on the aea's accounts, considered that it had 'obtained reasonable assurance that the annual accounts for the financial year 2010 were reliable' and that the underlying transactions were legal and regular. i therefore consider that the budget for the year 2010 of the eea should be discharged.
in writing. − in may 2012, parliament postponed the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2010 and refused to give discharge. the main reasons for this decision relate to conflicts of interest, in particular with the executive director of the agency. in this second report, the rapporteur maintains her position and is very critical of the progress made by the agency. the commission's assessment is based on three aspects: the painting of the façade of the agency's building without any public tender, which required, in order to cover the costs, an increase in budget line 2140 'fit-out of the premises'; the contradictory information sent by the executive director on her relationship with earthwatch and also on the use of the eea premises by an ngo without payment of rent. we supported the rapporteur's position, unlike the majority in parliament, which this time opted for discharge to the eaa budget (for the 2010 financial year).
in writing. - all european institutions which are dependent on the budget of the european union must be strictly supervised by the court of auditors and all the bodies with this function. it is necessary to assess whether community funds are being well used, whether these institutions are meeting the objectives set and whether there is no waste of resources. in general, with a few exceptions, as assessed by the audits known to us, we can say that the institutions concerned are making the right use of the funds made available and are meeting the objectives proposed. that is why i voted in favour of the report by the european environment agency.
in writing. - without prejudice to the reasons for refusing the director of the european environment agency discharge in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - this report, at second reading, raises issues of conflict of interest between the executive director of the european environment agency and the management of the agency itself. however, the ec has not raised any problems on this very issue. i therefore thought it best to abstain on this report.
in writing. − in may 2012, parliament postponed the closure of the accounts of the european environment agency (eea) for the financial year 2010 and refused to give discharge. the main reasons for this decision relate to conflicts of interest, in particular with the executive director of the agency. since the rapporteur maintains the same position in the second report (and there have been no developments which would justify a change in her position), we have chosen, in the interests of transparency, to support her position.
in writing. − the court of auditors is an audit institution, which checks the legality and regularity of the european union's revenue and expenditure and the sound financial management, exercising its functions with complete independence. in this spirit, the appointment of the individuals who make up the committee must be governed by criteria of competence and independence. mr leonardo orban has presented his cv, answered a written questionnaire and has been heard by the committee on budgetary control, but he has not presented sufficient arguments to justify his appointment to the court of auditors to perform his duties there in a competent and independent manner, hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the appointment of leonard orban as a member of the court of auditors. all the data presented for this option, including the replies to the questionnaire for candidates for members of the court of auditors annexed to this report, justified my decision by indicating that the criteria laid down in article 286 (1) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union are met and that the members of the court of auditors must be fully independent. i therefore welcome the appointment of leonard orban.
in writing. − the appointment of the member of the court of auditors followed the specific guidelines set out in article 286 (1) tfeu. for this reason, i am voting in favour of your nomination.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 2 696 382 from the egf for ireland to support the 493 potential beneficiaries of the 592 workers made redundant by talk talk broadband services and three of its suppliers in ireland.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal to mobilise eur 2 696 382 from the egf for ireland to assist the 592 workers made redundant by the telecommunications service provider talk talk broadband services. i stress the importance of improving the employability of these workers through appropriate vocational training and the recognition and validation of skills and competences acquired throughout their professional career. and i would remind you again that the mobilisation of egf appropriations is intended to help redundant workers to re-enter the labour market quickly.
in writing. − this report concerns the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and falls within point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2012/001 ie/talk talk, ireland). the egf was set up in 2006 to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns brought about by globalisation. ireland submitted an application on 29 february 2012 to the egf, following the dismissal of 573 workers from the talk talk broadband services (customer centre), for support of eur 2 696 382. on 27 july 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision to grant the requested support. this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2012 budget. the commission's conclusion is that the application fulfils the necessary and sufficient conditions for the mobilisation of the egf. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's recommendations and vote in favour of this proposal for a decision.
in writing. - this application concerns 592 redundancies in the telecommunications sector, 432 of which are potential recipients of assistance, at the company talk talk in ireland. the commission has decided to mobilise eur 2 696 382 to assist workers made redundant as a result of outsourcing to the united kingdom, india, the philippines and south africa. these layoffs are not inevitable. they are the result of political choices. we're approving palliative care that's necessary, but we need to go further. we must attack the root of the problem: the break with the neoliberal policies which are driving us into the abyss without discerning, however faintly, a small ray of hope for the millions of workers who are being deprived of their right to work and to a decent life.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to ireland which has submitted a request for assistance for 592 redundancies, 432 of which are potential beneficiaries, in talk talk broadband services (ireland) and three of its suppliers in ireland.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 27 july 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of ireland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the seventh application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 696 382 from the egf in support of 592 redundancies, 432 of which are potential recipients of assistance, in talk talk broadband services (ireland) and three of its suppliers in ireland during the four-month reference period from 7 september 2011 to 7 january 2012, and six more outside that period but related to the same collective redundancy process. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − following ireland's request for assistance in respect of 592 redundancies, 432 of which are potential beneficiaries, at talk talk broadband services (ireland) limited and three of its suppliers in ireland, the commission proposes to mobilise the amount of eur 2 696 382 from the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006 to 'provide additional support to redundant workers suffering from the consequences of structural changes in world trade patterns'. i voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the request for the mobilisation of the egf made by ireland in respect of 592 redundancies, 432 of which were potential beneficiaries of support, in talk talk broadband services and three of its suppliers. i believe that the european commission should mobilise eur 2 696 382.00 to help the vocational integration of workers in irish telecommunications companies. the financial package now approved should be channelled to support measures in the area of vocational guidance, individual training and general information provided through specific employment channels.
in writing. - in this plenary session alone we will be voting on eight calls for mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund, which reflects well the path of economic and social disaster that capitalist and neoliberal policies are leading the eu countries on. this application concerns 592 redundancies in the telecommunications sector, 432 of which are potential recipients of assistance, which occurred in the company talk talk in ireland and in six of its suppliers, in connection with the same collective redundancy. the commission has decided to mobilise eur 2 696 382 to assist workers made redundant as a result of their relocation to the united kingdom, india, the philippines and south africa. we're approving palliatives that may be temporarily important but we have to attack the evil at its root: it is imperative to break with the neoliberal policies which are driving us into the abyss without any glimmer of hope for the millions of workers and their families who are being deprived of their right to work and to a decent life.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 4 325 854 from the egf for sweden to support the 700 potential beneficiaries of the 987 workers made redundant at the pharmaceutical company astrazeneca.
in writing. − the globalisation of markets on the one hand, and the expiry of patents and the growing market share of generic medicines on the other, have brought about major changes in the pharmaceutical industry, forcing it to make adjustments in an already difficult environment in order to remain competitive. it also notes that investment and biotechnology research are becoming increasingly important worldwide and that the situation of r & d in the eu is a cause for concern in the face of the austerity climate in europe. in the face of new strategies and investment patterns in life sciences, biotechnology, pharmaceuticals or medical technology initiated by third countries, european companies, even those considered successful examples such as astrazeneca, have been forced to adapt their production to meet the new challenges. i therefore voted in favour of this report which makes available eur 4 325 854 through the mobilisation of the egf in favour of sweden.
in writing. − the european union (eu), recognising the very serious social consequences of the current economic and financial crisis, has set up the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support to workers affected by structural changes in world trade. this report is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the egf, in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2011/015/se/astrazeneca, sweden). on 16 july 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of sweden to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis, following the abovementioned application submitted on 23 december 2011. this is the sixth application submitted under the eu budget for 2012, mobilising eur 4 325 854, and aims to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 987 workers from the swedish company astrazeneca. i voted in favour of this proposal as it meets all the eligibility criteria laid down in the egf regulation.
in writing. - this report approves the mobilisation of the egf to the amount of eur 4 325 854 to support the reintegration into the labour market of 987 workers made redundant by the swedish company astrazeneca in the pharmaceutical industry as a result of 'structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation' - always the same talk... - to outsourcing and also to cuts in r & d investment at european level. unlike asian communities, which increased investment in r & d during the recession, europe, obsessed with tackling deficits, is restricting public support for r & d, which could continue for several years, with inevitable consequences for employment and medical research. every new mobilisation of this fund must be condemned and denounced in the strongest possible terms. this is the result of the policies which the eu has been imposing on europe. a new course is being set.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to sweden which has submitted a request for assistance for 987 redundancies, 700 of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance, at the pharmaceutical company astrazeneca in sweden.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 16 july 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the sixth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 4 325 854 from the egf to support 543 redundancies at astrazeneca during the four-month reference period from 15 june 2011 to 15 october 2011. a further 444 redundancies (totalling 987) occurred before and after the reference period and relate to the same collective redundancy procedure. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − following the application submitted by sweden, which requested assistance for 987 redundancies, 700 of which are potential recipients of assistance, at the pharmaceutical company astrazeneca, the commission proposes to mobilise the amount of eur 4 325 854 from the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006 to 'provide additional support to redundant workers suffering from the consequences of structural changes in world trade patterns'. i voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. sweden submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of 543 redundancies in astrazeneca during the four-month reference period (15 june 2011 to 15 october 2011). a further 444 redundancies (totalling 987) occurred before and after the reference period and relate to the same collective redundancy procedure. i agree to the mobilisation of eur 4 325 854,00 from the egf to support the reintegration of workers into the labour market, including incentives to encourage participation in the various actions undertaken, such as the jobseeker's allowance of eur 7 170,00 and the mobility allowance of eur 500,00. i would also remind you that egf support must be used for vocational training and job search and must not contribute directly to the social rights enjoyed by the unemployed, for which the national institutions are responsible.
in writing. − this report approves the mobilisation of the egf to the amount of eur 4 325 854 to support the reintegration into the labour market of 987 workers made redundant by the swedish company astrazeneca in the pharmaceutical industry, as a result of what the commission considers to be structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation, outsourcing and also cuts in r & d investment at european level. unlike several asian countries, which increased r & d investment during the recession, the eu's deficit-driven policy is restricting public support for r & d, which could last for several years, with unforeseeable consequences for employment and medical research. we remain opposed to the creation of a fund which also serves to legitimize the policy of redundancies and unemployment, without attacking its true causes.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported the present report on the mobilisation of eur 2 029 235 from the egf for spain to support the 450 potential beneficiaries of the 878 workers made redundant in 35 enterprises (manufacture of metal products, except machinery and equipment) in the galician region.
in writing. − financial assistance to workers affected by redundancies as a result of globalisation should be provided on an individual basis and aimed at their reintegration into the labour market. it should therefore be stressed that such assistance does not replace liabilities normally borne by undertakings, nor is it intended for the financing and restructuring of undertakings. as i mentioned last month in my explanation of vote on report a7-0232/2012, the shipbuilding industry has been badly affected by the current economic crisis, with its effects extending to the industries around the sector, as happened in galicia and led to the dismissal of 878 workers. moreover, these redundancies occur in galicia, a spanish region which had already used the egf in 2010 for restructuring in the textile sector and where the unemployment rate is already high. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union (eu), recognising the very serious social consequences of the current economic and financial crisis, has set up the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support to workers affected by structural changes in world trade. on 9 august 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of eur 4 325 854 following the application submitted by spain on 28 december 2011. this is spain's 19th application for this fund (feg) - the 10th to be examined under the 2012 budget - and is intended to minimise the social impact in galicia (es11) caused by the dismissal of 878 workers from 35 shipbuilding companies, representing around 45% of national production. the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the application of the principle of equal treatment for men and women in matters of social security.
in writing. - this is the 19th spanish application for a mobilisation of the egf since its creation. this time, 878 more workers in the shipping industry were thrown out of work by 35 companies in the galician region. the justification is repeated over and over again: major structural changes in world trade patterns as a result of globalisation. while we support this mobilization because it is essential to support these workers, we reiterate our reservations and critical position regarding the perversity of this fund. it would be more important if measures had been taken to prevent these workers from becoming unemployed. we cannot but draw a parallel here with the situation at the viana do castelo shipyards, where workers are fighting for the public character of the company, which is of strategic interest, and for the maintenance of their jobs. the privatization, which we firmly oppose, would leave the employment of hundreds of workers at the mercy of the interests of any future owner-multinational (and of whatever division of labour it deems most convenient).
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to spain, which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 878 redundancies, 450 of which are potential beneficiaries of egf assistance, following redundancies in 35 enterprises in division 25 (manufacture of metal products except machinery and equipment) of nace rev. 2, in the nuts ii region of galicia (es11) in spain.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 9 august 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the tenth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 4 325 854 from the egf in favour of 878 redundancies in 35 enterprises operating in the nace rev. 2 division 25 (manufacture of metal products other than machinery and equipment) in the region of galicia (es11) during the reference period of nine months from 23 march 2011 to 23 december 2011. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - following spain's application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in 878 enterprises in the region of galicia, the commission proposes to mobilise the sum of eur 2 029 235. i voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. spain submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of 878 workers made redundant, 450 of whom are potential beneficiaries of assistance, in 35 enterprises in division 25 (manufacture of processed metal products, except machinery and equipment), following an unexplained fall in new orders of 43%. i agree to the mobilisation of eur 2 029 235,00 to support the reintegration of workers, in particular vocational training measures aimed at creating jobs with high added value, thus avoiding the relocation of knowledge acquired in this industrial sector. it should also be noted that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of spanish companies, as it is a complementary support granted by the european union to alleviate the social difficulties that workers will face.
in writing. - this is the 19th spanish application for a mobilisation of the egf since its creation. this time we are talking about 878 workers in the shipping industry who have been made unemployed by 35 companies in the galician region. the justification for this is repeated over and over again: major structural changes in world trade patterns as a result of globalisation. although we support this mobilization, since we consider it important to support these workers, we reiterate our reservations and critical position with regard to this fund, because we consider that it would be more important if measures were taken to prevent unemployment, in order to avoid it. for this, we must take a different direction in europe, a europe where workers have their labour and social rights recognised, and not this eu which, instead of giving workers a decent life, tries to reward them with short-term compensatory measures.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported the present report concerning the mobilisation of eur 2 898 594 from the egf for the netherlands to support the 435 potential beneficiaries of the 516 workers made redundant in 54 companies (building) in the gelderland region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which provides for the mobilisation of the egf for a total of eur 2 898 594 for the netherlands to support the 616 workers made redundant in the rolling mills for the automotive industry. however, i regret that the netherlands, as an eu member state, opposed the extension of the 'crisis derogation' for the current egf, which would have allowed for the provision of financial assistance to workers made redundant as a result of the current financial and economic crisis and not only to those who lost their jobs due to structural changes in world trade patterns, thus jeopardising the future of the egf after 2013.
in writing. - this report by frédéric daerden on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament (ep), the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2011/009 nl/gelderland costruction 41', netherlands). this is the eighth application examined under the eu budget for 2012, and was submitted to the commission on 15 december 2011 for the mobilisation of eur 2 898 594, and is intended to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 516 workers from 54 companies in the construction sector in the nuts ii region of gelderland (nl 22), the netherlands. i am pleased to see that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the proposed measures are implemented.
in writing. the intolerable parade of calls for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund reveals the inhumanity of capitalism and the magnitude of its structural crisis. in this case, there are 435 more workers laid off in the netherlands in the construction sector. redundancies justified by employers by the abrupt drop in demand, i.e. by the decline in consumption and purchasing power, accompanied by the difficulty in obtaining credit. same arguments as on other occasions. the support we give to the mobilisation of the fund is linked to the obvious need to support workers who have been made redundant. but we do not accept the policy of laying off workers and leaving employers without responsibility as legitimate. we need investment policies that create and maintain jobs with rights and not the continuation of this endless destruction of productive forces and jobs.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to the netherlands which has submitted a request for assistance in respect of 516 redundancies, 435 of which are potential beneficiaries, in 54 enterprises in division 41 (building) of nace revision 2 in the nuts ii region of gelderland (nl22) in the netherlands.
in writing. − in the framework of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 16 july 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the eighth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 898 594 from the egf in support of 516 redundancies, 435 of which are potential beneficiaries of the intervention, in 54 enterprises in division 41 of nace revision 2 (building construction) in the nuts ii region of gelderland (nl 22) during the nine-month reference period from 1 february 2011 to 1 november 2011. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − following the request for assistance submitted by the netherlands in respect of 516 redundancies, 435 of which are potential beneficiaries, in 54 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 41 (building) in the nuts ii region of gelderland (nl22), the commission proposes to mobilise the amount of eur 2 898 594 from the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006 to provide additional support for redundant workers suffering from the consequences of structural changes in world trade patterns. i voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the request to mobilise the egf from the netherlands in respect of the 516 redundancies, 435 of which are potential beneficiaries, in 54 enterprises in the nace revision 2 division 41 ('building construction') in the nuts ii region of gelderland during the nine-month reference period (1 february 2011 and 1 november 2011). i believe that the european commission should mobilise eur 2 898 594,00 to help the occupational integration of workers in dutch building companies. the financial package now approved should be channelled to support measures in the area of vocational guidance, individual training and general information provided through specific employment channels.
in writing. - we are dealing with another request for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of a mass redundancy. this request by the netherlands concerns support for 435 workers made redundant in the construction sector, redundancies which were justified by employers by the abrupt drop in demand, i.e. the decline in consumption and purchasing power, accompanied by the difficulty in obtaining credit. more than these funds, which in a way legitimize the policy of dismissals and support employers in this decision, what workers need is the implementation of investment policies that create and maintain jobs with rights.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported the present report concerning the mobilisation of eur 1 494 008 from the egf for the netherlands to support the 616 workers made redundant, of whom 478 at zalco aluminium zeeland company nv, 18 at its supplier ecl services netherlands bv and 120 at start.
in writing. - this report, by frédéric daerden, is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament (ep), the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application efg/2011/021 nl/zalco', netherlands). on 9 august 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis. this is the ninth application under the eu budget for 2012, which was submitted to the commission on 28 december 2011 for the mobilisation of eur 1 494 008 and aims to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 616 workers from two aluminium product suppliers (ecl services netherland bv and start) in the netherlands. i am pleased to see that the commission has taken the necessary steps to ensure that the proposed measures are implemented.
in writing. - the succession of requests for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in cases of mass redundancies is shocking. in this case, two more requests from the netherlands: 1051 workers laid off by 57 companies in the construction and rolling industries for the automotive industry. the reason for the redundancies in both sectors was the sharp drop in demand, accompanied by difficulties in obtaining credit. finally, there are the manifestations and evidence of the economic and financial crisis and the processes of concentration and centralisation of capital which are under way. each new mobilisation of this fund is a living libel against the eu and the policies it has been defending and implementing. more than palliative measures (necessary), another policy is urgently needed, one which guarantees the right to work and improves the living conditions of workers and the peoples of europe.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to the netherlands which submitted a request for assistance for 616 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries, of which 478 redundancies at zalco aluminium zeeland company nv, 18 at its supplier ecl services netherlands bv and 120 at start during the short reference period from 1 to 27 december 2011.
in writing. − in the framework of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 9 august 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of the netherlands to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major changes in the structure of world trade due to globalisation. this is the ninth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 1 494 008 from the egf in favour of 616 redundancies, all of them eligible for assistance, in zalco aluminium zeeland company nv and two of its suppliers (ecl services netherlands bv and start) during the short reference period from 1 to 27 december 2011. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − considering that the netherlands has requested assistance for 616 redundancies, all of which are eligible for assistance, including 478 redundancies at zalco aluminium zeeland company nv, 18 at its supplier ecl services netherlands bv and 120 at start, the commission requests that the amount of eur 1 494 008 be mobilised from the european globalisation adjustment fund, set up in 2006 to 'provide additional support to redundant workers suffering from the consequences of structural changes in world trade patterns'. i voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. the netherlands submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of 616 redundancies, broken down as follows: 478 redundancies at zalco aluminium zeeland company nv, 18 at its supplier ecl services netherlands bv and 120 at start, during the short reference period from 1 to 27 december 2011. i agree with the mobilisation of eur 1 494 008 to support the reintegration of workers into the labour market, and it is important to remember that egf support should be used for vocational training and job search as well as vocational training programmes. such support should not replace the social responsibilities of the undertakings concerned and thus cannot directly contribute to the social rights enjoyed by the unemployed, which are the responsibility of national institutions.
in writing. - we are dealing with another request for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of a mass redundancy. this request by the netherlands concerns support for 616 workers made redundant in the rolling mills for the automotive industry. these redundancies were justified by the abrupt drop in demand, i.e. the decrease in consumption and purchasing power, accompanied by the difficulty in obtaining credit. the solution to the economic and financial crisis has been to drastically reduce the workforce, but this is not a humane solution that will create the conditions for the necessary economic recovery. it is necessary to focus on policies to promote employment with rights and not just to create short-term short-term responses to solve the problems of workers.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported the present report on the mobilisation of eur 11 949 666 from the egf for france to support the 2 089 workers made redundant in the two subsidiaries of the psa citroën group (peugeot citroën automobiles and sevelnord).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which ensures that eur 11 949 666 is mobilised from the overall egf budget for 2012 in favour of france. this appropriation is intended to assist the 5 100 workers made redundant in the two psa peugeot citroën subsidiaries, which affects the regional economy of 10 french regions. i would stress that the egf was set up to provide additional support to workers made redundant as a result of structural adjustments or restructuring of the economy, with a view to training them with a view to facilitating their reintegration into the labour market. and i recall that, aware of the difficulties faced by the automotive industry in europe, the commission presented in 2009 the document 'reacting to the crisis in the european automotive industry' in which it sets out in an integrated approach the structural problems of the sector and presents solutions to make it more competitive and adaptable to market needs.
in writing. - the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) under point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament (ep), the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2010/015 fr/peugeot', france). on 21 august 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis. this is the 11th application examined under the eu budget for 2011, and was submitted to the commission on 5 may 2010 for the mobilisation of eur 11 949 666. it is intended to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of some 2 089 workers at psa peugeot citroën and voluntary redundancies at the same company. i am therefore voting in favour of this application, since it fulfils the conditions for the mobilisation of the egf, and i hope that the economic fabric of the affected region will be restored quickly.
in writing. - in addition to our usual position on this matter, this request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund has specific features which make further critical assessment essential. the request was made by france for 5 100 workers made redundant by the psa peugeot citröen group, of whom more than 41.55% are over 55 years of age. this raises questions (and concerns) about the type of support that will be provided and the future of these workers, who traditionally have more difficulty finding new jobs. moreover, peugeot, in the redundancy plan negotiated with the workers, included the support of the egf as an integral part of the package to compensate the workers made redundant, an action which uses the fund with a functionality for which it was not created - but to which it is clearly suited. we maintain our position of solidarity with workers made redundant as a direct consequence of eu policies and the structural crisis of capitalism, although we can never agree to the mobilisation of this fund as a way of 'negotiating' conditions of redundancy with workers.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to france which has submitted a request for assistance for 2 089 redundancies, all potential beneficiaries, 649 of which occurred in two subsidiaries of the psa peugeot citroën group (peugeot citroën automobiles and sevelnord) during the reference period from 1 november 2009 to 28 february 2010, and 1 440 other workers were made redundant by the same companies before and after the reference period under the same voluntary redundancy scheme.
in writing. − in the framework of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 21 august 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of france to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis due to globalisation. this is the 11th application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 11 949 666 from the egf in favour of 2 089 redundancies of workers, all of whom are eligible for assistance, at psa peugeot citroën during the reference four-month period from 1 november 2009 to 28 february 2010, as well as redundancies resulting from the same voluntary redundancy scheme, also at psa peugeot citroën, but outside the reference period. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − france has submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in the psa peugeot citroën group in france, and supplemented it with additional information by 13 april 2012. this application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contributions laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission is therefore proposing to mobilise eur 11 949 666. i voted in favour.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. france submitted an application to mobilise the egf in favour of 649 workers made redundant in two subsidiaries of the psa peugeot citroën group (peugeot citroën automobiles and sevelnord) during the period from 1 november 2009 to 28 february 2010, and of a further 1 440 workers made redundant under the same redundancy scheme based on voluntary redundancies. i agree to the mobilisation of eur 11 949 666.00 to support the reintegration of workers, in particular vocational training measures aimed at creating high value-added jobs, thus avoiding the off-shoring of knowledge acquired in this industrial sector.
in writing. - this report assesses the french request to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for 5100 workers made redundant by the psa peugeot citröen group, of whom more than 41.55% are over 55 years of age. this raises the question (and concern) of what kind of support will be put into practice and what future awaits these workers, who traditionally have more difficulty finding a new job. moreover, in the redundancy plan negotiated with the workers, peugeot included the egf support as an integral part of the package to compensate the workers made redundant, which is an action which uses the fund for a purpose for which it was not created and which may be regarded as a form of blackmailing those workers into accepting redundancy, masked as voluntary departure. we maintain our position of solidarity with workers made redundant as a direct consequence of eu policies and the structural crisis of capitalism, although we cannot agree to the mobilisation of this fund as a way of negotiating conditions for redundancies with workers.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 7 488 000 from the egf for denmark to support the 720 workers made redundant at the wind turbine manufacturer vestas group.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the application meets the eligibility criteria.
in writing. - this report by lászló surján on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament (ep), the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2012/003 dk/vestas', denmark). on 13 september 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis. this is the 13th application under the 2012 eu budget, which was submitted to the commission on 14 may 2012 with a request for the mobilisation of eur 7 488 000, and aims to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 720 workers from the vestas group, a wind turbine manufacturer (nace rev 2 division 28 manufacture of machinery and equipment). since the commission has concluded that the application fulfils the necessary and sufficient conditions for the mobilisation of the egf, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a decision.
in writing. − this is the 13th application submitted under the 2012 budget for the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 7 488 000 from the egf for denmark. the application concerns 720 redundancies in the vestas group, a manufacturer of wind turbines. ironically, one of europe's largest renewable energy groups is laying off hundreds of workers when the eu says this is a priority area under its eu 2020 strategy. it is thought-provoking and illuminating of the true meaning and objectives of this strategy. despite the increase in wind turbine production in europe in recent years and the foreseeable increase in demand in the markets of asia, north and south america, the solution was not to consolidate the loyalty of the european market and to conquer new markets, but to lay off highly skilled workers and relocate production and service provision outside europe. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to denmark which has submitted a request for assistance concerning 720 redundancies, all of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance, in the vestas group, a wind turbine manufacturer in denmark.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 13 september 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis due to globalisation. this is the 13th application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 7 488 000 from the egf for 720 redundancies at the vestas group, a wind turbine manufacturer in denmark, all of which occurred in the four-month reference period from 8 february 2012 to 8 june 2012. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − denmark submitted an application on 14 may 2012 to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in the vestas group, and supplemented it with additional information by 10 july 2012. this application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contributions laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission is therefore proposing to mobilise the sum of eur 7 488 000, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. − given that denmark has applied for assistance for 720 redundancies, all of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance, in the vestas group, a wind turbine manufacturer in denmark, and that the application meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i voted in favour of mobilising this instrument to provide additional support to the affected workers and to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. − we are examining the 13th application under the 2012 budget, which concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 7 488 000 from the egf for denmark. the application concerns 720 redundancies in the vestas group, a manufacturer of wind turbines. we are faced with another case of collective redundancies where, despite the fact that wind turbine production in europe has increased in recent years and the foreseeable increase in demand in the markets of asia, north and south america, the solution found was to lay off highly skilled workers and relocate production and service provision outside europe. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work. dismissals based on the famous relocation policies, aggravated by the economic and financial crisis. but let's be honest: all in the name of quick and easy profit. the workers are the ones who pay for the crises that capitalism creates and will never be able to solve.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported the present report on the mobilisation of eur 5 352 944 from the egf for germany to support the 2 103 potential beneficiaries of the 2 284 workers made redundant by the manroland printing machinery company.
in writing. − the report i have had the pleasure of drawing up concerns the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and falls within point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2012/002 de/manroland', germany). the egf was set up in 2006 to support workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns brought about by globalisation. on 4 may 2012, germany submitted an application for the egf, the 12th application to be examined under the eu budget for 2012, following the redundancies of 2 284 workers (2 177 at manroland ag, 62 at two subsidiaries and 45 at a supplier), which was approved by the commission on 13 september 2012. since the commission has concluded that the application fulfils the necessary and sufficient conditions for the mobilisation of the egf, as provided for in article 2 (a) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, and has been submitted within the time limit, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a decision.
in writing. - germany requested assistance for 2 284 workers made redundant from manroland and two of its subsidiaries, as well as from a supplier in germany. this company was a machine manufacturer with specialised skills and attractive salaries, whose closure affected other neighbouring towns. if these workers find a new job, they will have to accept a lower wage level, which will reduce their purchasing power, increase the pressure on the wages of other workers and affect the local economy. this is unacceptable. the successive mobilisations of this fund are shocking and unacceptable. eight more in this plenary session alone. in total, 8 415 workers were made unemployed. this support will only be a necessary palliative, but it will not solve the drama into which the lives of each of these workers and their families have been transformed.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid must now be given to germany, which has submitted a request for assistance concerning 2 284 redundancies, of which 2 103 are potential beneficiaries, in the printing machine manufacturer manroland ag and two of its subsidiaries, as well as a supplier in germany.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 13 september 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in germany to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis due to globalisation. this is the 12th application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a global amount of eur 5 352 944 from the egf in favour of 2 177 redundancies in manroland ag and 62 in two of its subsidiaries, as well as 45 in its supplier (gefinal systema), for a total of 2 284 redundancies, 2 239 of which occurred in the four-month reference period from 1 january 2012 to 30 april 2012. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - following the application submitted by germany for the mobilisation of the egf in respect of redundancies in manroland ag and two of its subsidiaries and in a supplier, the commission proposed the mobilisation of eur 5 352 944, for which i voted in favour.
in writing. - given that germany has requested assistance for 2 284 redundant workers, of whom 2 103 are potential recipients of assistance, working for the printing machine manufacturer manroland ag and two of its subsidiaries, as well as a supplier in germany, and that the application meets the eligibility criteria set out in the egf regulation, i voted in favour of mobilising this instrument to provide additional support to the affected workers and to assist their reintegration into the labour market.
in writing. - germany requested assistance for 2 284 workers made redundant from the company manroland and two of its subsidiaries, as well as from a supplier in germany. this company was a machinery manufacturer with specialised skills whose closure affected several neighbouring towns. if these workers find a new job they will have to accept a lower wage level, which will reduce their purchasing power and affect the local economy, which is absolutely deplorable. this was the last request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund which we examined in this plenary session, and it approved support for 8 415 workers, totalling eur 40 531 302. these supports will only be a compensatory palliative which will not solve the drama into which the lives of each of these workers and their families have been transformed. only a break with the policies currently being pursued by the eu will be able to stop this path of social and economic disaster.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the export or transit situation through the european union of dual-use items, taking into account that dual-use items are products and technology. given that they can be used for both peaceful and military purposes, it is imperative to establish a set of standards in place to identify and regulate this type of product. this regulation lays down the conditions under which these items are exported and more transparency is needed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider it important to ensure non-proliferation without restricting competition and competitiveness and because i consider that the commission's proposal is in line with the objective of ensuring that eu checklists are updated as soon as possible, allowing for improved speed and flexibility, rapid adaptation to changing external circumstances and avoiding the proliferation of emerging threats, thus ensuring that european industry is not placed at a competitive disadvantage.
in writing. - dual-use products, goods which can be used for both civilian and military purposes, such as chemicals which can be used for fertilisers or to prepare bombs, computer technology but used to guide missiles, are today a highly sensitive matter. the control of exports of dual-use items and technologies at european level aims to ensure compliance with the international commitments of the eu and its member states on non-proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and the proliferation of conventional weapons. the proposal aims to simplify the procedures of the eu export control regime by introducing delegated acts for regular updates of annex i and amendments to annex ii to regulation (ec) no 428/2009. these updates improve the speed and flexibility of control, allowing for rapid adaptation to changing external circumstances to address the proliferation of emerging threats.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mr christofer fjellner, relates to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishing a community regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items. over the past few years, the european union has taken a number of measures to prevent these dual-use materials (those which can have a use not only for civilian but also for military purposes) from being used in the manufacture of weapons, in particular weapons of mass destruction. the main eu control instrument is regulation (ec) no 428/2009 of 5 may 2009, which focuses on brokering activities and the transit of these materials, but needs to be amended to avoid differential treatment between member states. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the need to update the existing regulation in order to facilitate the control of exports of dual-use goods and technologies in order to limit the risk of their use for non-peaceful purposes and without affecting legal trade in such goods.
in writing. - this report follows two legislative proposals already adopted by this parliament on export control issues for dual-use items which will amend regulation (ec) no 428/2009 on the export control system for dual-use items and its annexes, which contain lists of controlled items and destinations. we reiterate the objections we raised when this was approved. this report relates to the commission proposal for updating the annexes to the regulation. at present, updates to the regulation are made through the ordinary legislative procedure. the commission proposes to introduce delegated acts for regular updates of annex i and amendments to annex ii. the rapporteur supports the commission's position, and the main reason for this change of procedure is that the ordinary legislative procedure is 'costly and time-consuming' and the late implementation of decisions on strengthening controls 'affects the competitiveness of european exporters'. our group co-signed several amendments to the report which would improve it. unfortunately, they were not approved.
in writing. − the eu controls exports of products which are civilian in nature but which can be used for military purposes under regulation (ec) no 428/2009. annex i to the agreement contains the community list of controlled products, which reflects decisions taken by consensus in international export control regimes. the products under control may not leave the customs territory of the eu without an export authorisation. the general export authorisations listed in annex ii cover exports of certain products of the lowest risk to certain destinations. the dual-use export control framework serves a dual purpose: it aims to limit the risk of proliferation and military use without harming legitimate trade. therefore, it is of the utmost importance to strike a fair balance between these concerns.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the objective of ensuring that eu checklists are updated as soon as possible, improving speed and flexibility. this will allow for a rapid adaptation to changing external circumstances to address the proliferation of emerging threats and ensure that european industry is not placed at a competitive disadvantage.
in writing. − the eu controls the export of goods of a civilian nature, which can however be used for military purposes, in accordance with regulation (ec) no 428/2009. the framework for export controls on goods and technologies serves a dual purpose: to limit the risk of proliferation and military use, without, however, blocking legitimate trade. it is therefore vital to strike a fair balance between these concerns. in this regard, the commission is now proposing amendments to regulation (ec) no 428/2009 with a view to simplifying the procedures in the export control regime. i therefore voted in favour.
in writing. − the existence of civilian products and technologies which can be used for military purposes requires the european union to regulate and control their export. this export control aims to limit the risk of proliferation of weapons, without this limit affecting legal trade. in the context of such control there are two annexes to the export regulation, which list all dual-use goods and technologies. however, rapid technological advances require that the annexes be updated periodically through the costly and time-consuming ordinary legislative process. in view of the need to honour, as soon as possible, the international commitments made by the member states of the european union with regard to safety-related matters and the need to ensure the competitiveness of european exporters, it is necessary that the process of updating the annexes be carried out as soon as possible. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the document, which expressly proposes to delegate to the european commission the power to update the lists annexed to the regulation on dual-use goods.
in writing. - this report follows two legislative proposals already adopted by this parliament on export control issues for dual-use items which will amend regulation (ec) no 428/2009 on the export control system for dual-use items and its annexes, which contain lists of controlled items and destinations. the rapporteur supports the commission's position, which we do not agree with. the eug co-signed several amendments to the report which would have improved it but were rejected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the collection of data on the seafarer profession at european level. there is an unequivocal need for a more complete picture of the employment situation in this sector.
in writing. − the commission proposal is mainly a transposition of the amendments already accepted by the member states to the nfcsq convention at the imo in order to align european legislation with the amended nfcsq convention. i believe that the amendments introduced in the transposition serve the purpose of improving the wording of the legislative text for reasons of clarity or to update the text to take account of the most recent developments. i agree with the determination of all member states to provide information on seafarers' patents annually in order to obtain a more accurate picture of the seafarer's profession in europe. i also agree with the updates to the legislative text concerning the new comitology provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − it is essential that there is a minimum level of training for ship crews to ensure their safety at sea or in ports. it should be ensured that crews performing the same duties have the same level of competence required to perform the same duties, regardless of whether the training was carried out in another member state. the training and certification of crews shall follow the parameters of the convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers (the 'nfcsq convention'), adopted in 1978 by the international maritime organisation. the nfcsq convention was amended in 2010 in manila and entered into force on 1 january 2012. it is essential to consistently transpose the manila agreed changes into eu law by amending directive 2008/106/ec. in order to avoid compromising safety on board ships, the opinion provides for a minimum period of rest for the crew. i therefore support this proposal, which seeks to avoid the danger of fatigue by not allowing derogations from the daily rest period. derogations shall be permitted only with the consent of the social partners of all member states in respect of a weekly rest period of 77 hours.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'minimum level of training for seafarers', because it will bring european legislation into line with international conventions on the certification of the training of ship crews.
in writing. - the advent of the era of globalisation, with the elimination of frontiers and the increased mobility of people, means that workers of different nationalities are increasingly working in the same company or company, as is the case with workers on the same ship. the training and certification of seafarers (nfcsq convention) entered into force in 1984 and was significantly amended in 1995 to require a minimum level of training for this category of workers. currently, eu law is embodied in directive 2008/106/ec, which was adopted in november 2008 under the co-decision procedure. on 1 january 2012, a set of relevant amendments agreed at the conference of the parties to the nfcsq convention held in manila in 2010 entered into force. the commission proposal aims to transpose into european law the amendments agreed at the conference of the parties to the nfcsq convention in 2010. i therefore support the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 2008/106/ec on the minimum level of training of seafarers.
in writing. − the proposed amendment to the directive on the minimum level of training of seafarers aims to establish a minimum level for the training and certification of seafarers, including the theoretical and practical component, ensuring adequate qualifications to ensure the necessary safety and protection and to respond to hazard and emergency situations. portugal has the technical and administrative capacity to meet the new training requirements. however, it is necessary to ensure that the minimum training requirements do not fall behind current technological developments and scientific advances - which we fear may not be the case. the proposal also includes the designation of a minimum number of hours of rest and minimum ages for young applicants, as well as mandatory minimum requirements for certification as seafarers in the mastery and seamanship. however, in portugal the work intensity on board is already high and tends to increase greatly because of the tendency to reduce staff. it would be essential to ensure that these workers do not work more than 8 hours - which is not the case with this report.
in writing. − it is essential that crews who are trained in different countries and under different systems but who work on the same ship have the necessary skills to perform their duties in the same way. training plays an important role in the field of maritime safety. the training and certification of seafarers is governed by the convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers (the 'nfcsq convention'), which was adopted in 1978 by the international maritime organisation. it entered into force in 1984 and was significantly amended in 1995.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which is based on the commission proposal which essentially deals with the transposition of the amendments already accepted by the member states to the nfcsq convention at the imo, in order to bring european legislation into line with the amended nfcsq convention. the amendments introduced in the transposition have improved the wording of the legislative text, making it clearer and updated to the latest developments in the subject. i am pleased that all the member states are determined to provide information on seafarers' patents annually, so as to obtain a more accurate picture of the seafarer's profession in europe.
in writing. − seafarers trained in different countries and under different systems, but working on the same ship, must have the minimum skills necessary to perform their duties with equal excellence. such competencies play an important role in the field of maritime safety. the legislation adopted, taking into account the rules of the international maritime organisation, introduces changes to european legislation in order to bring the union's rules on the training and certification of seafarers into line with international rules. i voted in favour.
in writing. − this report aims to transpose the amendments agreed in manila in 2010 to the international convention on standards of training, certification and watchkeeping for seafarers, adopted in 1978. i am in favour of this, stressing the importance of minimum rest periods and limits on the possibility of derogations from the hours of rest for seafarers on room service. at a time when the blue economy has incredible growth potential, we must invest in training and qualifying seafarers.
in writing. the proposal to amend the directive concerns the regulation of the minimum level of training of seafarers. however, we think it is necessary to ensure that the minimum training requirements do not fall behind the current technological development and scientific advances, which we believe is the case here. the proposal also includes the designation of a minimum number of hours of rest, but it does not guarantee something fundamental: that these workers do not work more than 8 hours.
in writing. - the recommendation under consideration, drawn up by my colleague and compatriot vital moreira, concerns the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products (caa). trade relations between the eu and the state of israel have existed for several years, although the eu has never recognised the legitimacy of israel's occupation of palestinian land, notably in the gaza strip. the protocol to the association agreement now approved aims to facilitate the import of safe and low-cost medicines, so-called generics, through mutual recognition of certification powers for certain products. i consider this agreement to be very important, not only because it represents a step forward in trade cooperation with israel, but also because of the advantages it brings to european and israeli consumers and producers. in addition, this protocol has obliged israel to bring its legislative framework closer to that of the european union, which is of great interest to the eu.
in writing. - the approval of this agreement is deplorable and illustrates the eu's hypocritical stance on human rights. the eu's closer trade relations with israel - based on the elimination of technical barriers to trade through the standardisation of legislation and infrastructure (the principle underlying the acaa) - come at a time when israel's systematic violations of the most basic rights of the palestinian people are deepening. a few days after israel, in blatant defiance of international law and numerous un resolutions, advanced to new settlements. human rights violations in the occupied territories are a daily occurrence. territories from which some of the products covered by this agreement may originate. the eu is turning a blind eye. business comes first. the policy of double standards is particularly visible when, in relation to other states, sanctions of various kinds are imposed precisely because of human rights violations. this is the case of iran recently, where the 'nuclear threat' has also been invoked. to be conveniently forgotten now in the case of israel - the only nuclear power in the region which even recently refused to participate in the un conference in helsinki on "a middle east free of nuclear weapons".
in writing. - an 'upgrade' in relations between the european union and israel, a country which violates international law and human rights in the occupied palestinian territories, is unacceptable. even if it ignores the violation of human rights, this protocol does not have the appropriate mechanisms to monitor and stop the industrial goods that are illegally produced in the settlements, which constitute a violation of the fourth geneva convention. since the european union has been awarded the nobel peace prize, freezing this protocol would be an incentive for israel to make a significant contribution to the peace negotiations. by accepting this protocol with israel, the european union is silently agreeing to the occupation and the war.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep legislative resolution on a draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and israel on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products. the protocol will allow eu exporters to have their industrial products subject to a single check and certification before export against the same standards and criteria and to access the israeli market without any further certification requirements, with the same requirements applying in reverse on the same assumptions. however, i would stress that the eu's trade policy must be conducted on the basis of the objectives of the union's external action, the principles on which it is based, in particular, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, as enshrined in the treaty.
in writing. - i voted against granting new trade advantages to israel because i believe that, as the teu requires, there must be coherence between the union's external trade policy and its external policy towards israel. the strengthening of the eu-israel trade partnership is not in line with the eu's firm condemnation of israeli policy towards the palestinians, in particular the economic blockade of gaza, the illegal settlements in the occupied territories, the annexation of east jerusalem and the violation of the fundamental rights of the palestinians, namely the right to their territory, freedom of movement, work and, of course, their right to self-determination. the eu cannot afford two contradictory policies towards israel. we must have a single, coherent political message, namely that there will be no strengthening of bilateral relations as long as israel continues to ignore the eu's condemnation of israeli policy on the palestinian question. while israel, in defiance of the union's positions, is systematically destroying the conditions for a peace agreement, giving it this commercial 'gift' is not exactly a sign of consistency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i welcome the determination that eu exporters who so wish can submit their industrial products to a single check and certification before export against the same aligned standards and criteria and thus access the israeli market without any further requirements for certification of conformity.
in writing. − the approval of the protocol, which i voted for, will allow eu exporters to have their industrial products subjected to a single check and certification before export against aligned standards and criteria, and to access the israeli market without any further certification requirements, thus easing technical barriers to trade in industrial products. the same requirements apply in the reverse case.
in writing. the caa protocol will allow easier access for european industries to the israeli market, and in turn israeli industries will have easier access to the european market. this will be possible by eliminating technical barriers to trade in industrial products. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and will continue to monitor the implementation of the agreements and the decisions. since, according to the commission, the acc will allow for full control of the import of industrial products originating in israeli settlements in palestinian territory, as well as industrial products of dubious origin, compliance with eu law, compliance with international law and consequently consistency in the different areas of the union's external action, including respect for human rights, is thus ensured. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this agreement aims to strengthen trade relations between the eu and israel by removing technical barriers to trade through standardisation of legislation and infrastructure (the principle underlying the acaa). it is hypocritical to conclude this agreement when we know that human rights are being violated every day in the occupied territories, from which some of the products covered by this agreement may originate. the policy of double standards is particularly visible when, in relation to other states, it is precisely violations of human rights that are invoked to impose sanctions of various kinds, as in the recent case of iran. we have obviously voted against the conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it aims at a renewed development policy. i also support the principle of differentiation. i also welcome stronger language on cross-compliance and a human rights approach. the amendments adopted also introduce the issue of non-discrimination, the protection of minorities, equality between men and women and the role of health and education, a narrow definition of oda.
in writing. − the new global challenges require a new approach in the different policies, instruments and resources available to the eu to effectively fight poverty and achieve the millennium development goals. in its communication 'an agenda for change', the european commission announces important changes in the eu's position on development cooperation which i welcome, in particular by placing the emphasis on the quality of aid, proposing stricter selectivity in the choice of third countries, thus excluding from the list emerging countries benefiting from oda whose problem is no longer wealth creation but its distribution, favouring the combination of grants and loans and promoting the role of the private sector. on this last point, i agree that it is vital from a financial, administrative and social point of view to create micro, small and mediumsized enterprises in developing countries in order to encourage entrepreneurship and private sector development. on the other hand, i am in favour of a clearer link between emergency aid, rehabilitation and development, which can be done through sustained assistance between public and private entities with corporate social responsibility.
in writing. − support for developing countries has always been one of the flagships of the european union (eu), which is the leading donor of development financial aid - half of the total. many of the countries receiving this support are now emerging economies that no longer need eu aid. the eu, in the midst of an economic and financial crisis, must refocus its support on the poorest countries and gradually withdraw from emerging economies. the european agenda must adapt to the new reality, continue the fight to eradicate poverty at global level in order to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. we must look very closely at all these problems and carefully at every euro that is spent, because the scarcity of resources requires us all to pay greater attention to avoid waste and to maximise investment. i voted in favour of this report on an agenda for change: the future of eu development policy, because i believe that the eu must continue to work for the eradication of poverty worldwide by channelling its support not to the governments of developing countries but to the people and organisations directly involved in this process.
in writing. − this own-initiative report is based on the commission communication on 'an agenda for change', which announces changes in development cooperation policy. the report, in its fifteen pages, has both positive and negative aspects. the idea that the main objective of implementing development policy should be to combat poverty and exclusion is a cross-cutting one. important (but insufficient) considerations are made of the problem of food security, the right of developing countries to regulate investment (including foreign investment), the central role that public aid should continue to play, the need to evaluate the results of cooperation policies, and others. the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a very good one. the market economy and aid conditionality claims are added to this trend. finally, the references to tax havens, tax evasion and capital flight are very insufficient. the same applies to the problem of policy coherence - which is not sufficiently addressed.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty requires that development policy be implemented in such a way that measures promote economic growth in developing countries, aiming primarily at combating poverty and exclusion through access to education and health care. however, as the main objectives of eu development policy, further efforts must be made to integrate human rights and democracy more effectively into development cooperation, ensuring compliance with international human rights obligations. i voted in favour, welcoming the adoption of this report, which clearly challenges the eu's development policies in the light of the principles set out in the treaty, which are required in this area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which, in a constructive tone, describes the reality and points out ways forward to correct shortcomings in the union's development policy, in order to equip europe with the capacity to act, in line with its ambition to become not only the main but also the best aid donor.
in writing. − the objective of the report on an agenda for change is to refocus the discussion on certain priority issues which are essential for the success of eu development policy. of course, official development assistance is the financial allocation, stressing that oda expenditures are not related to poverty eradication purposes. then, inclusive growth and the role of economic growth in developing countries as a potential driver for social progress, highlighting the importance of any project being subject to an assessment designed to inform about the real impact on possible poverty reduction. and then there is the impact on the economic circumstances of the emerging economies of the south, particularly china and india, and the role of the eu as an international community donor. finally, the need for a commitment by the commission and the member states to the need for coherence, efficiency and sustainability of this agenda for change.
in writing. the 'agenda for change' presented by the ec aims to make development aid pay particular attention to the quality of the aid itself. it does not thereby intend to change the eu's longstanding practices, principles and approaches in supporting developing countries. one of the examples that shows the need for changes in development policy is the brics, since the problem they now face is not wealth creation but rather its equitable distribution. i am voting in favour of this report because i consider that the approach presented is the most appropriate one for improving the effectiveness and quality of development aid.
in writing. - we consider some of the ideas in this report to be relatively positive, such as the argument that the main objective of implementing development policy should be to combat poverty and exclusion, the considerations made on the problem of food security, the right of developing countries to regulate investment (in particular foreign investment), the central role that public aid should continue to play, the need to evaluate the results of cooperation policies, and others. the report, however, advocates an instrumental view of cooperation policy, aimed at exporting to developing countries and imposing models in the economic and social organization of the state, statements which we cannot but criticize.
in writing. - there are some 23 million smes in europe, representing 99% of all businesses and employing some 75 million people. given the impact of these companies on the european economy, it is important that policy makers look for opportunities to harness the dynamism of this sector for the benefit of european society. for the european union economy to grow again, the eu must adopt measures that reduce the administrative burden on smes. this report, which i support, advocates strengthening and increasing the competitiveness of industry and smes, which requires an environment that encourages new ideas and enterprises. the eu should also encourage its smes to go international, especially in new emerging markets, arguing that this requires the removal of the many obstacles these companies face when trying to enter the global market. finally, the need for the commission to pursue programmes such as 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs', to strengthen them and to consider the creation of a programme providing talented entrepreneurs with the opportunity to gain experience in centres of excellence outside the eu is supported.
in writing. - smes are crucial to the european economy. smes account for 99% of the european business fabric. smes together employ 70% of the eu's workforce, and between 2002 and 2010 they contributed to 85% of the new jobs created in the eu. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to minimise the costs of context for smes and to strengthen support for the internationalisation and competitiveness of smes.
in writing. - in the face of the current economic crisis, and given that smes are the backbone of the european economy, constituting 99% of all enterprises in the euro area (23 million enterprises) and employing 70% of the total number of jobs (76 million people), it is imperative to take measures aimed at strengthening the competitiveness of these enterprises. this will require: increasing eu support policies; facilitating access to finance, especially at the initial investment and export stage; encouraging business internationalisation; improving the management and operability of business support programmes; fostering cooperation between business associations, both in the single market and in third countries; ensuring greater effectiveness in the transposition of eu legislation and a reduction in red tape; and equipping the eu with high-speed broadband links with the aim of safeguarding the maximum participation of smes in a digitised internal market. i therefore support this initiative which proposes to invest in programmes aimed at the entrepreneurial potential of citizens, increasing the competitiveness of smes and micro-enterprises, creating a favourable environment for businesses to flourish and consequently increasing employment.
in writing. − the european union (eu) has high hopes for the contribution that small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) can make to help europe emerge from the economic and financial crisis in which it finds itself. the strengthening of the competitiveness of smes, better policy harmonisation and a greater incentive for internationalisation are factors that will help to overcome the crisis. smes account for 75% of business activity at european level and have been responsible for 85% of job creation in recent years. it is therefore essential to increase their capacity for internationalisation and to facilitate access to finance. i therefore welcome the cosmi programme to support the internationalisation of smes. smes are the backbone of our economy and the drivers of sustainable economic growth. if we are to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, we must support smes by promoting their excellence and improving productivity and competitiveness. this requires cutting red tape, reducing the administrative burden and implementing a fair and competitive tax policy. i voted in favour of this proposal because it is a good initiative by the commission, since smes are the engine of economic growth and essential to overcoming the crisis.
in writing. - this report mixes ideological mystification with a lack of realism. in addressing a key part of the business fabric - small and mediumsized enterprises - progress is being made with some measures which we value - relating to the dissemination and provision of information, for example the creation of networks of export support services at local and regional level. but it ignores the reality of smes today, which are being squeezed by the pressure of recessionary policies that crush consumption and investment, by credit restrictions and, in short, by policies that stifle smes, particularly in the fiscal sphere, while granting benefits to the large economic and financial groups. in portugal, the troika's policies are leading to the ruin of thousands and thousands of smes. we find not a word of this in the report. the apology for the 'internal market' seeks to conceal its consequences in terms of monopolistic concentration in various sectors of the economy. entrepreneurship is again presented as the miracle solution to the problem of unemployment. the aim is to shift the focus of the problem of society - specifically, of its forms of organization - to the individual.
in writing. − smes are the engine of economies, and are important job creators (around 85% of new jobs created in the eu between 2002 and 2010 were generated by smes). in a period of economic crisis, it is essential to promote and support the economic activities of smes in the single market and in third country markets. however, the highly diverse nature of smes should not be overlooked, and eu policies should therefore take account of the different challenges faced by smes, depending on their size and sector. i cast my vote in favour.
in writing. the rapporteur presents concrete measures to minimise the costs borne by smes and to strengthen support for the internationalisation and competitiveness of smes. these factors, together with the importance of smes in the european economy, represent 99% of the european business fabric and have contributed to the creation of 85% of new jobs that have emerged in the eu. these aspects motivated my vote in favour.
in writing. − the internationalisation of smes, among other things, is a concern of this report, which calls on the commission to launch an online portal to inform smes of third party laws and bureaucracy, and for a new governance model. the document welcomes the local, regional and national mapping exercise of european support schemes and suggests emphasising cooperation between the various business associations, chambers of commerce and other private actors in non-eu countries. in short, the draft redefines political priorities in the effort to reduce the administrative burden and calls for improvements in the transposition of the directives into national law.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) play a decisive and increasingly important role in the relaunch of economic activity and job creation and should be given special attention by the competent authorities. it should be noted that around 85% of all new jobs created in the european union (eu) between 2002 and 2010 were generated by smes and that 32.5 million eu citizens are self-employed. i agree with this report, because i believe that smes should be oriented towards the european market but also towards other international markets, have greater access to the market access database and export support services, and to patent protection in the single market. i also believe that the european commission should establish partnerships and promote business clusters that facilitate economies of scale and access to new international markets. entrepreneurship activities by young entrepreneurs should also be an integral part of the new 'erasmus for all' programme for education, training, youth and sport.
in writing. - we will agree with this report on a number of measures relating to the dissemination and provision of information, the creation of networks of export support services at local and regional level, among others. but what is certain is that this report does not touch the heart of the problem: in portugal dozens of companies are closing down every day because of the recessionary policies that the troika imposes, such as the increase in taxes on these companies and policies that lead to a decrease in domestic consumption and the loss of purchasing power of workers. it is very strange that this report does not say a word about this subject, and thus ignores the real problems facing smes. on the other hand, it continues to defend the internal market when it is well known that it was precisely the monopolistic concentration of sectors of the economy, which was possible within the framework of the free movement of goods and capital, which condemned many smes to disaster and bankruptcy. the report also makes a huge ideological falsehood of the idea that the eu should invest in programmes to address the entrepreneurial potential of european citizens as a real alternative to employment, which is a paradigm that absolves states of responsibility, a perspective with which we strongly disagree.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, in which eu and us leaders set up a high level working group on jobs and growth to identify ways of increasing trade and investment to support job creation, economic growth and competitiveness on both sides. whereas this report supports the ongoing discussion between the eu and the us on how best to cooperate to ensure long-term prosperity and jobs, and stresses that a comprehensive agreement must include the reciprocal opening of the ambitious market for goods, services and investment, addressing the challenges of modernising trade rules and increasing the compatibility of regulatory regimes, as well as calling for progress in removing trade barriers, improved market access, better protection of ipr and the opening up of public procurement; i voted in favour of this report because i believe it strengthens bilateral relations between two of the world's largest economic and political blocs: the usa and the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it of the utmost importance to encourage negotiations between the eu, the us and other partners with a view to developing joint action to deal with the environmental crisis and climate change.
in writing. the eu's trade policy is based on the principle of free trade. despite the size of transatlantic trade and investment flows, the potential of the eu-us relationship is far from being fully exploited. i support the moreira report because i believe that there is enormous potential for the two economies to deepen trade relations: the two countries share common values, similar legal systems and very similar labour, energy and market standards, from which fruitful agreements and synergies can emerge. while the interests and specificities of both parties should be safeguarded (such as european guidelines and policies in the fields of environment, animal health and welfare, food safety, cultural diversity, social rights, etc.), there remain many areas where a deepening of relations would be a win-win deal, namely the elimination of trade barriers, measures to improve market access, protection of intellectual property rights, liberalisation of the public procurement market, clarification, simplification and harmonisation of rules of origin. given the growing importance of electronic commerce, it seems to me equally essential to strengthen relations on the data protection standards crucial to consumer protection in both the eu and the us.
in writing. - the present report, by mr vital moreira, looks at economic and trade relations between the european union (eu) and the united states of america (us) and puts us in front of the two largest economies in the world. half of the world's gdp is generated by these trade relations, as more than two billion euros are traded between the two partners every day. i welcome the deepening of trade relations between the eu and the us in order to create a genuine transatlantic market which will greatly benefit european and american consumers, not only because of the enormous growth potential it represents for both sides, but also because of cooperation in order to overcome the challenges facing the world economy. although there are still some open questions, such as the technological area (automobiles), products derived from genetically modified organisms, food safety, meat from cloned animals, etc., i hope that these will be resolved quickly and that we can get this agreement approved as soon as possible, because we have much to gain from its entry into force.
in writing. − this report seeks to lay the foundations for deepening trade relations between the us and the eu, believing that closer economic cooperation between the two countries could help overcome the crisis. it is stated that by 'opening trade and investment, expanding markets and resisting protectionism in all its forms, these are necessary conditions for sustained global economic recovery, job creation and development'. we are faced with the usual parade of arguments about the wonders of free trade, which they insist on and insist on, as reality keeps on contradicting the miraculous promises and making more visible the real consequences of this path: unemployment, closure of companies (especially smes), monopolistic concentration, pressure on the workforce to devalue it, greater pressure on the environment and natural resources. the commission's proposal for a directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs is a very good one. new attacks on public services are looming as capital advances into new and ever-widening spheres of social life in which it can exercise the process of accumulation, thus seeking to counteract the crisis in which it is sinking ever deeper.
in writing. the world's largest economic relationship is composed of and developed between the eu and the us. together they account for about half of the world's economic output. the current economic and financial crisis threatens the prosperity of these economies and efforts should be made to enhance economic cooperation between the eu and the us in order to overcome the obstacles created by the crisis and create conditions for a global economic recovery, job creation and development. i welcome this legislative resolution, in which i voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it of the utmost importance to encourage action between the eu, the us and other partners, joint action to tackle the environmental crisis and climate change.
in writing. - the owninitiative report emphasises with due realism, while not forgetting the difficulties of the case, the immense beneficial potential of a comprehensive trade agreement. a balanced proposal based on reciprocity, in which both sides stand to gain if an agreement is reached which aims to stimulate bilateral relations between the two powers and which, at the very least, will infuse world trade by shaping the new multilateral links which are currently being forged in the wto. the report also calls for the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the european parliament's role in the negotiations is not compromised. given the importance of this ambitious objective, which seeks to strengthen transatlantic economic cooperation 'in order to take advantage of the benefits of international trade', i voted in favour of mr vital moreira's proposal.
in writing. − the eu and the united states of america (usa) are each other's main trade and economic partners, with deep integration in terms of trade and investment flows. however, there is a broad consensus on both sides of the atlantic that the relationship between these two blocs could be deeper. the existence of non-tariff barriers to trade accounted for losses of eur 163 billion for both economies in 2009, according to the commission, excluding potential gdp growth for both. consequently, there is a huge potential for growth and socioeconomic development that could come from a trade agreement between these partners. i agree with the rapporteur that such a trade agreement, if it is to be achieved, should consist in the total or almost total elimination of tariffs, the mutual recognition or harmonization of technical standards and norms, the reciprocity of rules, the opening up of the public procurement market, etc. i welcome all proposals and measures that would promote the conclusion of such an agreement with the usa, which presents an economic and historic opportunity for the european union, with tangible benefits for all its economic operators. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this report attempts to lay the foundations for deepening trade relations between the us and the eu, insisting on the failed theses of free trade which have led to unemployment, closure of businesses (especially smes), monopolistic concentration, pressure on the labour force to devalue itself, increased pressure on the environment and natural resources. we are also totally opposed to the idea that is emerging here of opening up the market in services and public procurement, which will constitute, if it comes to fruition, a new attack on public and universal services.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our colleague mr díaz de mera has already recalled the circumstances in which this directive was adopted and the fact is that the member states have benefited above all from the data retention period, the period of 6 to 24 months was clearly one of the most used tools by a large number of member states. several speakers have already mentioned the problems we have with the fact that it has been transposed into national legislation in very different ways and almost all speakers have stressed, well, the problems we have with the protection of fundamental rights and the right to privacy. there is clearly a deficit here that we have to face. i must say that i am one of those who liked the answers given by commissioner malmström. i appreciated the concerns of commissioner malmström about the scope of the directive, about the limitation of the subject matter, about the reduction of retention periods, and all of this that commissioner malmström said is part, in my view, of the effort to review this directive that we must collectively undertake. i am concerned about the time problem, and i was convinced that the commission would present us with an initiative by the end of the year. commissioner malmström has already said that this will not happen until the end of this year, but it also does not give us any time horizon and my fear is that at the end of this debate we will all be thinking that in six months, a year, maybe two years, we will still be asking the european commission when it will present the revision of this directive.
on behalf of the s&d group, i would first of all like to welcome commissioner de gucht, who has come at a very opportune time to inform parliament of the state of play of the pre-negotiations, so to speak, between the union and japan. it is timely because this week parliament will vote and, in my view, approve the report by our colleague metin kasak, who is rapporteur for relations with japan on the same subject. the socialist group supports the launch of negotiations and will therefore be voting in favour of the resolution which is at the heart of the ideas put forward by commissioner de gucht. we believe that the potential of economic and trade relations between the european union and japan is clearly under-exploited and that the difficulty in the case of japan is that the greatest potential for growth lies in the elimination of the many non-tariff barriers that currently exist to trade and investment in that country. we must therefore support an agreement with japan because it is the only way to effectively remove these barriers, at least for the most part, and to allow access to investment in that country, including in public procurement, a field in which these barriers are now really a hindrance. in my view, the scope-setting exercise carried out by the commission and the japanese government has provided satisfactory guarantees, and the conditions are in place for negotiations to begin with a good prospect of success. we need to be demanding in terms of objectives and that is why parliament will vote this week, in the resolution i have already referred to, on its recommendations on the negotiating mandate which the commission has already asked the council to give clear, more demanding instructions to the negotiator, that is to say the commission, on what will make the agreement acceptable to parliament, without whose assent no international trade treaty can be concluded. i hope that the council will take our recommendations into account and that the commission will follow them.
the rapporteur. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, it is a privilege to present the report on the 20 concerns of citizens and businesses about the functioning of the single market, precisely in this debate with commissioner barnier, which marks the 20th anniversary of this market. firstly, i would like to thank my colleagues from all the political groups, and in particular the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur, for their constructive contributions and positive attitude. it was a pleasure to work with all of you and the report has benefited greatly from our joint effort. we are well aware and proud that over the past 20 years the single market has been the engine of great economic and employment opportunities in europe that have transformed the lives of european citizens and european businesses. travel, residence and work in the union are freedoms that are available to all citizens of the 27 member states. for european consumers, the single market means more choice and lower prices. for our companies the single market means more business opportunities with access to 500 million consumers, which means more economic growth and more job creation. to illustrate the progress that the single market has made in europe since its creation in 1992 until the crisis in 2008, it is enough to look at the 2.7 million jobs that have been created and the 2.13% of additional gdp growth. today, it is 13% cheaper to make or receive a phone call when travelling in europe than in 2005. the free movement of persons finds its most eloquent expression in the erasmus programme. more than two and a half million students have benefited from this european programme of educational exchange and mobility. in the last five years, companies have also benefited from a 25% cut in administrative posts due to single market legislation. but one question remains: is the single market doing well? no, not everything works out. the economic and financial crisis that we are experiencing has had a negative impact on the functioning of this market. our citizens, in some countries living with the drama of unemployment and faced with austerity measures, have become sceptical about europe and negative about the internal market. people still do not know or understand their rights sufficiently and do not know where to find information or help. on the other hand, many member states are unduly delaying the transposition of european directives and legislation on the single market, thus undermining its full potential. in certain areas of citizens' daily lives, things as simple as reimbursing medical expenses after a temporary stay in another eu country, opening a bank account for an erasmus student, changing energy supplier, transferring retirement pensions, recognising qualifications and registering a vehicle in another member state are still very complex, difficult or costly. these problems need to be addressed. that was my concern as rapporteur. the message in the report is therefore very clear: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. finally, i would like to take this opportunity to congratulate the european commission, in the person of mr barnier, on the presentation of the single market act ii: 12 priority actions for new growth, which i am sure marks a new step forward.
madam president, commissioner barnier and dear colleague regina bastos, my congratulations on your already successful efforts. the single market of the union was created in 1992 when jacques delors was president of the european commission. the three basic principles of the single market were summed up by mr delors: competition that stimulates, cooperation that strengthens and solidarity that unites. twenty years later, the economic and financial crisis has reignited the threat of national protectionism and it has become clear that the internal market is not a finished product. the celebration of these 20 years must be used to relaunch the single market with the aim of putting the market at the service of the citizen and not the citizen at the service of the market. to do that, we must set priorities, and i would like to speak about one in particular. a common policy for producing and distributing energy at affordable prices to consumers, with a high level of energy efficiency through the european energy market, served by cross-border infrastructure with the possibility of community leverage of the investment representing european added value, is essential. the common market will also be played out in the energy sector, madam president.
the single market, mr president, is used for recurrent propaganda about its alleged contribution to employment, growth and, indeed, economic and social cohesion. only reality, stubborn as it is, insists on contradicting this wonderful vision. the fact is that the single market has gone hand in hand with the weakening of the economically most vulnerable countries, the destruction of productive capacity and the increase in their external dependence. these 20 years have meant the predominance of business over the public interest. the market has advanced in almost all spheres of economic and social life, in public services, with liberalization and privatization, generating inequalities, poverty, exclusion. the single market has opened the way to monopolistic concentration in a number of sectors of activity. consider the case of transport. as for the so-called free movement of persons in this single market, it is now clear that it serves not to harmonize progress but, on the contrary, to bring living and working conditions in europe down to a level. this is the balance of the 20 years that reality has imposed on us.
the single market is one of the greatest achievements of the european union and certainly one of the strongest pillars of the development of the union, its member states and its regions. however, to be effective and fair, it must base its policies on equal opportunities for citizens and all regions, while promoting the union's internal cohesion. in this context, it is essential to recognise that we can only achieve greater development of our outermost regions, such as the outermost regions, by integrating them more fully into the single market. regions like the azores need to continue to increase their competitiveness by improving their conditions of competition, but we will never be able to do that unless we solve our problems of accessibility in the area of transport better. we can do this by means of specific instruments which are better suited to the problems posed by our isolation. we therefore argue that the commission should consider a specific programme, such as posei transportes, as an essential instrument for the integration of such regions into the internal market.
mr president, there are reasons for celebrating the 20th anniversary of the internal market. but the internal market in goods, services and investment should be accompanied by a single labour market, also removing barriers to the mobility of workers. without a single labour market there is no true internal market. secondly, the single market means free competition, but free competition presupposes fair conditions and not regulatory dumping, tax dumping and social dumping. market integration must be accompanied by regulatory integration, tax integration and social integration.
the rapporteur. - madam president, first of all i would like to thank you very much for this excellent debate. it was a very constructive debate and it was a debate which demonstrated that the single market is indeed a great achievement of the european project. i welcome the presence of mr mavroyiannis and his participation in this debate, i thank all the members for their constructive attitude, some of them with a skeptical attitude, which is understandable, and i thank commissioner barnier very much for the commitment and enthusiasm he puts into discussing these issues, these problems of the internal market and the political will to solve them. we have a lot to answer to the citizens. the citizens are dissatisfied, they are disappointed and they expect more from us, they expect more from the council, they expect more from the commission, they expect more from the member states. this balance is very useful, this balance of 20 years is important, but, as many have said here, it is important to open the door to look into the future. and the future is seen through many of the issues that have been raised here and through many of the measures that have already been announced by the european commission. the digital single market, the mobility of citizens, the reform of the eures portal, the european energy market are all eloquent examples of the fact that we still have an important way to go in the future and that this way is very important and vital to respond to the crisis we are living in. the citizens are suffering, the citizens expect a lot from the politicians and the answers that the politicians can give to the adverse conditions they are suffering. it is therefore important that the single market is one of the answers to the great challenge of competitiveness, employment and economic growth. i am sure that after this 20th anniversary celebration, we are all better equipped to give the answers our citizens need.
madam president, we all know that youth unemployment is twice as high as that of other generations, and we all recognise that the erasmus programme enriches students academically, professionally and in terms of acquiring new skills, which enhances their prospects for employment. we all know that the council has made commitments to erasmus. it would therefore be unacceptable for the council to adopt the slogan 'we do not pay'. the council must pay on time and honour the commitments it makes. the council must be credible, trustworthy and exemplary. we hope that this priority programme, which has been absolutely fundamental to the affirmation of the european project, will continue and that the council will not in future raise any doubts as to whether or not it will pay what it has committed to and what it has undertaken.
the erasmus programme started 25 years ago and has already had about 3 million participants. it is one of the most popular and successful programmes in europe, and it is extremely important that it continues to be so. it is a symbol of the eu and, if it is in danger, it is the very unity of the eu that could be weakened. it is essential that a level of funding be agreed to ensure the continuity of this programme, because all the money that is applied will never be wasted but invested. this is an investment in the skills, the intellectual and cultural training of the young people who will be the future of europe. it is therefore unacceptable that the erasmus programme is in danger, as it is one of the most effective weapons to combat unemployment in europe. the future of europe and the credibility of the european union are at stake. erasmus is a fight to be fought. debts have to be paid and grants made available; it is necessary to qualify young people and to place them in the labour market. i call on the three institutions to make every effort to reach a satisfactory solution as soon as possible. and i call on the council to set an example of rigour. payments due for projects which were budgeted and for which the relevant legal authorization existed cannot be denied.
the erasmus programme is one of the most successful programmes at european level but is currently at risk due to a lack of community funding. at a time of serious difficulties for young people, it is essential to continue to support the mobility of thousands of students between different countries. during the negotiations on the community budget for 2012, the council decided to reduce payment commitments by eur 3 billion and also committed to unlocking the funds if necessary. during the year, the council and the european commission approved numerous projects in different areas such as the projects of the qren, the common agricultural policy, the fisheries, research and innovation fund (fp7) or the erasmus programme. in order for the eu to cover all its financing needs in the most diverse areas of economic and social activity, the community budget needs to be increased by approximately eur 8.3 billion, and the european commission has already put forward a proposal to this effect. i believe it is essential to respect the commitments made to the beneficiaries and to finance the projects that have been approved by the european institutions. we cannot put the erasmus programme in question, a programme which has taken years to consolidate and which is fundamental to the future of the younger generations.
rapporteur. − mr president, i have something important to say and i will be brief. first of all, as rapporteur, i call on the house to consent to this agreement because it is a good one and should be welcomed as a template for future agreements on the same subject. i am hoping for your unanimous support. however, in approving the agreement we are not voting to accept the council decision on this matter while it includes a provision establishing a comitology mechanism allowing the council to control commission decisions on the application of the agreement. in my view, parliament should not accept the council deciding unilaterally on something which, by definition, ought to be co-decided by this house – let alone accept the council abusing comitology to control, unduly and unilaterally, the commission’s powers in relation to application of the agreement. therefore, let it be clear that we are not endorsing the draft council decision on this matter, and that if the draft remains unchanged – which i hope will not be the case – we will not allow it to be considered as a precedent for future international agreements. unfortunately there is no council representative here, but i am sure this message will reach the council.
in writing. - i approve this report, which results from the eea agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part. the agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date on which the parties have notified each other of the completion of their ratification procedures. given that the interim agreement (ia) between the european community and the republic of serbia signed on the same date to allow for the early application of the provisions on trade and related matters of the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) entered into force on 1 february 2010, i agree with the commission's proposal for an implementing regulation to lay down rules and procedures for the adoption of detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of the agreements concerned. in addition, for the sake of consistency in trade legislation, i agree with the rapporteur who has tabled amendments aimed at bringing the amended provisions into line with the amendments introduced by the trade omnibus i to the five regulations relating to the stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreements with other western balkan countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the proposed amendments.
in writing. − the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states and serbia is awaiting the completion of the ratification process. pending its entry into force, it is appropriate to allow certain rules, in particular those concerning trade, to apply between the union and serbia. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the implementation of the interim agreement is in line with the regulations already established with other balkan countries. this and the others should be in line with the legal regime after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. for the sake of clarity and proper framing.
in writing. − the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the european communities and their member states (ecs) of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, was signed in luxembourg on 29 april 2008 and provided for its entry into force on the first day of the second month following the date of notification by the partners of its ratification. on the same date, an interim agreement (ia) was signed between the european community and the republic of serbia to allow for the early application of the provisions of the saa. this saa entered into force on 1 february 2010. the report under discussion deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the procedures for implementing this saa. the eea regulations are part of the ongoing trade omnibus i regulation, on which the commission adopted its position at first reading on 14 march 2012. to speed up the implementation of the saa, the commission proposes an implementing regulation with detailed rules and procedures for the implementation of the provisions laid down in the saas. i therefore voted in favour of the report by mr winkler.
in writing. - the main objective of this report, like others on international trade, is to bring legislation in this area into line with the changes introduced by the treaty of lisbon which have an impact on this area. the amendments tabled by the rapporteur are designed to bring the report into line with the provisions amended by the trade omnibus i amendments to the regulations on the stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreements. but we cannot fail to appreciate the deeper significance of this report, in the light of the principle positions it takes on the treaty and its provisions on trade policy. the lisbon treaty stipulates that trade policy is an exclusive competence of the eu. the interests in the commercial field are, of course, different from country to country, because the respective economies, fragility and potential of each country are different. the overlapping of the interests of the strongest with those of the weakest, in this and other areas, is detrimental to weaker economies, as in the case of portugal, which is in the hands of the commercial interests of the economic groups of the eu powers, especially germany, which are often opposed to the interests of the national productive fabric.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution. the report focused on the submission of amendment proposals to bring the five regulations on stabilisation and association agreements and interim agreements with other western balkan countries into line with the amendments introduced by the trade omnibus i. this will enable the european parliament to develop a coherent position on this matter.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments to the stabilisation and association agreement between the european community and the republic of serbia to bring the amended provisions into line with the amendments to the other regulations relating to the stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreements with other western balkan countries, thus promoting consistency between all the agreements concluded.
in writing. − given the agreements signed between the european union and the republic of serbia with a view to enhancing trade flows between the two economies and taking into account the changes resulting from the implementation of the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary to implement amendments to the signed agreements. the legislative changes brought about by the lisbon treaty are complemented by the changes introduced by the 'trade ominibus i' and the consequent strategic alignment of the stabilisation and association agreements between the eu and several balkan countries. the european parliament should therefore maintain its legislative coherence in relation to the treatment of the balkans, in which serbia is included. in view of the above, i am voting in favour of the report which proposes aligning the agreements signed between the eu and serbia with existing legislation.
in writing. the amendments introduced by the rapporteur are designed to bring the report into line with the provisions amended by the amendments introduced by the trade omnibus i, the regulations relating to the stabilisation and association agreements and the interim agreements. it is important, however, to make a criticism of what the lisbon treaty stipulates as regards trade policy as an exclusive competence of the eu. it is clear that the trade policies that suit the interests of each country will be different and history shows that the overlapping of the interests of the stronger and the weaker, in this as in other areas, brings losses to weaker economies, as has happened and is happening with portugal.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing with the rapporteur's proposal given its urgency and its importance for the continuation of the seed import regime. however, i agree with the rapporteur that the commission proposal did not change the 'old' provisions on comitology in decision 2003/17/ec, which only concerned the amendment of its two annexes. it is known that, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the 'old' provisions on comitology have to be replaced by delegated or implementing acts in accordance with articles 290 and 291 tfeu. however, the commission ensures that the annexes to decision 2003/17/ec should not be amended before the entry into force of the proposal for the legislative reform of the cap on seeds. for this reason, and in order to avoid any obstacles to the rapid adoption of this urgent proposal, the rapporteur considers that it would be sufficient to delete the current provisions on comitology in the amended decision 2003/17/ec (i.e. articles 4 and 5 thereof). it therefore proposes three amendments. however, if these annexes need to be amended, this will still be possible through the ordinary legislative procedure, and i therefore approve this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important to ensure the necessary supply of seeds to the eu market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'extension of the period for the application of council decision 2003/17/ec and updating of the names of a third country and the authorities responsible for approval and control of production', given its importance for the continuation of the seed import regime until the revision of the relevant regulation is completed.
in writing. − i fully agree with the list drawn up by the european commission on the principle of equivalence for the import of fodder plant seeds, cereal seeds, beet seeds and oil and fibre plant seeds originating in third countries, and with the extension of the deadline beyond 31 december 2012.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive on the carriage of goods by road. the period of recognition, in accordance with decision 2003/17/ec, of the application of the principle of equivalence for the import of fodder plant seed, cereal seed, beet seed and oil and fibre plant seed originating in third countries expires on 31 december 2012. since it is necessary to ensure the supply of seeds to the agricultural market of the european union while the revision of the seeds regulation is being carried out under the co-decision procedure, the commission proposes an extension of the period of 10 years in order to ensure that it does not expire before the revision of the seeds regulation is completed. i voted in favour because i agree with the rapporteur that the commission proposal should be accepted by the ep 'in its content and form, given its urgency and importance for the continuation of the seed import regime'.
in writing. − council decision 2003/17/ec establishes a list of countries to be recognised for the application of the principle of equivalence for imports of fodder plant seed, cereal seed, beet seed, oilseed and fibre plant seed originating in third countries. the period of application is five years, extendable if all requirements are met, and is scheduled to end on 31 december 2012. the report aims to ensure the necessary supply of these seeds to the eu market and to this end extends the deadline to 31 december 2022, increasing the period stipulated to ten years. it also amends provisions which, upon the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, are replaced by delegated or implementing acts to the commission. although we supported the rapporteur's proposal, it is an opportunity to draw attention once again to the constraints associated with the world seed market, which is increasingly controlled by a handful of large monopolies, which place millions of producers worldwide under their control. the commission has also taken note of the serious and persistent agricultural and food production deficits affecting several eu countries, such as portugal.
in writing. − council decision 2003/17/ec establishes a list of countries to be recognised for the application of the principle of equivalence for the import of fodder plant seed, cereal seed, beet seed and oil and fibre plant seed originating in third countries. it lays down the requirements to be met and the limitation of the period of recognition of equivalence, which expires on 31 december 2012. the extension of the period for the application of decision 2003/17/ec, now to 31 december 2022, given the urgency and importance for the seed import regime, ensures the functioning of the sector and the necessary supply of seed to the eu market.
in writing. - having regard to the urgency and importance of continuing the seed import regime, i voted in favour of this report, following the rapporteur's position of accepting the content and form of the commission proposal.
in writing. − council decision 2003/17/ec establishes a list of countries to be recognised for the application of the principle of equivalence for the import of fodder plant seed, cereal seed, beet seed and oil and fibre plant seed originating in third countries, lays down the requirements to be fulfilled and provides in particular for the limitation of the period of recognition of equivalence to five years, renewable if all the requirements are fulfilled. this period shall expire on 31 december 2012. therefore, in order to ensure the necessary supply of seeds to the eu market, the commission considers that these rules should be extended by amending the deadline to 31 december 2022, even if the temporary extension is currently only foreseen for 5 years. the rapporteur proposes that the commission proposal be accepted by parliament given its urgency and its importance for the continuation of the seed import regime and i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the report aims to ensure the necessary supply of seeds (forage plants, cereal seeds, beet seeds, oilseeds and fibre seeds from third countries) to the eu market and to this end extends the deadline for doing so to 31 december 2022. we voted in favour of this proposal, although we do not want to overlook the growing constraints associated with the world seed market, controlled by a handful of large monopolies, which place millions of producers worldwide under their control.
in writing. - i approve this report. the issue of conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources is a matter of the utmost importance and should be treated with the priority it deserves, and i stress its importance for the viability of the islands' fishing communities. i agree with the rapporteur that the 12 mile question should be part of a wider debate on the reform of the common fisheries policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the management of fisheries by the member states within the 12 nautical mile zone has been stable, effective and successful.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources', taking into account the need to extend the period of application of the current 12-mile zone access regime, which has been managed by the member states, and thus avoid a legal vacuum, until a wider reform of the cfp is completed.
in writing. - i agree with the extension of the current 12-nautical-mile fishing zone which was established in 1983 by the first regulation on the common fisheries policy. the currently defined zones therefore offer a degree of protection to vulnerable coastal communities. the current 12-nautical-mile zone regime is fully functional and should be extended beyond the period of 31 december 2012.
in writing. - the fisheries sector is vital to the european union (eu), not only for food but also for the environment. sustainable management of fisheries resources is therefore a concern of the eu, especially for endangered species. the european parliament (ep), aware of the importance of this sector, has frequently debated this matter. in 2009, it adopted resolution (206) on the need to conserve fisheries resources in the atlantic ocean and the north sea. it is widely acknowledged that the common fisheries policy has been a failure on the whole. while the management of fisheries within the 12-mile zone, by the member states, has been a success, outside this zone and by brussels it has been a disaster. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the rapporteur on the two aspects mentioned in his conclusion: on the urgency, since the current 12-mile zone regime, although functional, will expire on 31 december, requiring an extension for another two years; and on the framing of this debate in a broader context, namely in the process of reforming the common fisheries policy of the european union.
in writing. the report extends the period of application of the current 12-mile zone access regime (exclusive access reserve). within the framework of existing legislation, article 17 (2) of the current regulation provides for a derogation from the principle of equal access within the 12-nautical-mile zone of each member state. this derogation has been in force since 1 january 2003 and expires on 31 december 2012. since it is more than likely that the reform of the cfp will not be completed by the end of 2012, the commission was forced to present the current proposal in order to avoid the termination of the still existing scheme - of which the commission itself has a very positive assessment. we voted for the report. however, we believe that the principle of reserving access should be permanent and that the area should be extended beyond 12 miles (whereas in the case of the outermost regions this area should include the whole of the exclusive economic zone, i.e. from 100 to 200 miles). the rapporteur has also taken this into account, and we have therefore supported his position. unfortunately, the right and the social democrats have joined forces to make this amendment unworkable, allowing only the extension of the current derogation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this legislative resolution on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy. regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 introduced rules limiting access to fishery resources in the 12-nautical-mile zone, which contributed to its conservation. these derogations would expire on 31 december 2012, and the amendment of that regulation is therefore of the utmost importance at a time of discussion on the common fisheries policy.
in writing. the 12 nautical mile zone was established in 1983 by the first regulation on the common fisheries policy (cfp). council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 provides for a derogation from the principle of equal access within the 12-nautical-mile zone of each member state. as this derogation expires on 31 december 2012, this report proposed a two-year extension to avoid the end of the 12-mile regime, with the intention of extending it until 31 december 2014. the current 12-nautical-mile regime has worked well and has provided protection for the fishing activity of coastal communities. i agree with the reasons given and the urgency of this extension, and therefore i voted in favour of this report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy.
in writing. the commission proposal seeks to extend the period of application of the current 12-mile zone access regime. within the framework of the existing legislation on the cfp, article 17 (2) of council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 provides for a derogation from the principle of equal access within the 12-nautical-mile zone of each member state. this derogation has been in force since 1 january 2003 and expires on 31 december 2012. the rapporteur supports extending this period for a further two years. the european parliament approves its position at first reading, endorsing the commission's proposal, which i voted in favour of.
in writing. − the report extends the period of application of the current 12-nautical-mile zone access regime (exclusive access reserve), the derogation from which would have expired on 31 december 2012. we agree with this decision, although we argue that the principle of reserving access should be permanent and that the area should be extended beyond 12 miles (whereas in the case of the outermost regions this area should include the whole of the exclusive economic zone, i.e. from 100 to 200 miles).
in writing. − i welcome this report, recalling that the european union and the republic of moldova aim to protect geographical indications (gi) in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and enhance sustainable rural development. i agree with the rapporteur that the eu's interest is well protected in this agreement. in addition, moldova is the next eu eastern partner after ukraine to conclude a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement in the framework of an association agreement with the european union. this agreement paves the way for closer eu/moldova trade relations and should also be supported in this context.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the eu's interest is well protected in this agreement and that it opens the way to closer eu/moldova trade relations with mutual benefits.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the protection of geographical indications for agricultural products and foodstuffs, as it aims at the mutual protection of geographical indications of the european union and the republic of moldova and thus contributes to the strengthening of bilateral trade, the promotion of food quality and sustainable rural development.
in writing. − in order to maintain and even strengthen trade relations between the european union and moldova, with the aim of promoting product quality in the food chain and enhancing sustainable rural development, it is important that the geographical indications (gi) of the respective regions are mutually protected. in the interests of the eu, the protection and use of the geographical indication system should therefore be extended to other products.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the eu and the republic of moldova also want to protect geographical indications in order to 'improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and enhance sustainable rural development'. on 18 april 2011, the eu and the republic of moldova concluded bilateral negotiations with the aim of extending the protection and use of the geographical indications (gi) system, thus preventing the usurpation of eu gi's. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. i therefore voted in favour, taking into account the opinion of the committee on international trade.
in writing. − this eu-moldova agreement aims to protect geographical indications on a reciprocal basis 'in order to promote quality in the food chain, enhance rural and sustainable development and improve the conditions of bilateral trade'. we have always considered it important to defend protected geographical indications and protected designations of origin, and protected traditional specialities, as these are instruments which can help to preserve various regional products, their quality and traditional production methods, and thus contribute in some way to improving the living conditions of the people in rural areas. but, as we have also said on a number of occasions, these designations of origin and quality indications cannot be regarded as a panacea for the damage caused by the current agricultural and trade paradigms, based on the intensification of production and the deregulation and liberalization of trade. we cannot therefore fail to draw attention to the intentions underlying this agreement to move towards the conclusion of a 'deep and comprehensive' free trade agreement.
in writing. − this legislative resolution is based on the outcome of the bilateral negotiations concluded on 18 april 2011 between the eu and moldova. this agreement paves the way for closer eu-moldova relations and therefore deserves my vote in favour.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this legislative resolution which gives the green light to the agreement whereby the european union and the republic of moldova aim to protect mutually geographical indications (gi) in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and increase sustainable rural development.
in writing. - we have always considered it important to protect protected geographical indications, protected designations of origin and protected traditional specialities, as these are instruments which can help to preserve a variety of regional products, their quality and traditional production methods, and thus contribute in some way to improving the living conditions of the people in rural areas. the eu-moldova agreement is therefore in that context. however, we cannot fail to draw attention to the intentions underlying this agreement to move towards a free trade agreement, which would be highly damaging to the more fragile economy of this relationship.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that the 2012 wfd aims to improve transparency and openness with regard to other stakeholders, who may be invited to participate in formal or informal meetings of the food assistance committee, which the parties will consult regularly. i consider it useful that a publicly accessible website be set up with the express purpose of facilitating the exchange of information with interested parties. the publication of the parties' minimum annual commitments, the committee's annual report and the dates and places of the meetings of the committee, as well as its summary minutes, will contribute to enhanced external accountability and allow stakeholders to monitor the performance of donors. the annual report of the committee shall include a summary of the annual reports of all parties. however, some points should be reassessed and improved, both during the period of application and with a view to a future revision of the convention.
in writing. − hunger and food insecurity remain a global challenge. over the past decade, although progress has been made on a number of fronts, the pace of progress remains slow. the european parliament fully endorses the objectives of the food assistance convention (fac) 2012, which is key to the european union (eu) continuing to achieve its humanitarian aid objectives at international level. the 2012 cfp will enable the eu to ensure that food assistance policy is implemented as effectively and efficiently as possible to meet the nutritional needs of the most vulnerable populations. it focuses on dialogue and exchange of information and best practices between the parties to the convention and aims to improve transparency and openness with other stakeholders. the 2012 asap is fully in line with the eu's ongoing efforts to contribute to poverty reduction and the eradication of hunger in the world, in the framework of the millennium development goals. i therefore support this recommendation on the conclusion of the food assistance convention (caa 2012).
in writing. - the amendments now introduced to the food assistance convention (caa 1999) are important steps forward on the road to strengthening food assistance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'celebrating the food assistance convention on behalf of the eu', given the importance of continuing the eu's efforts to reduce poverty and eradicate hunger in the world, in the framework of the millennium development goals.
in writing. - poverty and hunger are the most pressing concerns of our society. despite efforts to reduce the former, both persist. the vast majority of the undernourished population belongs to the developing world and is made up of women and children. malnutrition is the underlying cause of more than a third of the estimated 2.6 million child deaths each year. for the most basic questions of human solidarity, i can only be satisfied with the approval and renewal of the food assistance convention.
in writing. − the recommendation under consideration, drafted by nirj deva, concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union (eu), of the food assistance convention (caa 2012). despite all the technological advances and the fact that many developing countries have seen their gross domestic product grow significantly, hunger and malnutrition remain a scourge worldwide. that is why states, institutions and citizens must continue to support the non-governmental organisations that are fighting to alleviate the estimated one billion people who suffer from hunger each year. it is unacceptable that 20% of children under five in developing countries are malnourished, with the consequences for their normal physical and cognitive development. because this food assistance convention is in line with the eu's efforts to reduce poverty and eradicate hunger in the world, within the framework of the millennium development goals (mdgs), i am voting in favour and welcome this approval which represents a step forward in helping the most deprived.
in writing. − we supported the conclusion, on behalf of the eu, of the food assistance convention, which aims to 'save lives, reduce hunger and improve food security and nutrition for the most vulnerable populations'. this convention comes at a time when hunger continues to grow and kill all over the world. hunger is also growing within the eu's borders and is one of the most brutal consequences of the process of civilizational retrogression that the eu is embarking on. in this context, we cannot fail to note the shocking attempts to end the community programme of food aid for the needy (pcaac) or to reduce substantially its budgetary appropriations, when what was needed was its strengthening.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, considering it essential to continue the eu's efforts to reduce poverty and eradicate hunger in the world, in the context of the millennium development goals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the food assistance convention (faa 2012), which is fully in line with the eu's ongoing efforts to contribute to the reduction of poverty and the eradication of hunger in the world, in the framework of the millennium development goals.
in writing. - today, hunger and food insecurity remain global challenges. although substantial progress has been made on a number of fronts over the past decade, the pace of progress in hunger and malnutrition remains stubbornly slow. the convention is fully in line with the eu's ongoing efforts to contribute to the reduction of poverty and the eradication of hunger in the world, in the framework of the millennium development goals. the european parliament is invited to give its consent to the draft council decision on the conclusion of this convention, but no amendments can be made. the document was approved by the european parliament, and i voted in favour.
in writing. the food assistance convention sets as its objectives 'saving human lives, reducing hunger and improving food security and the nutritional situation of the most vulnerable populations'. it is now clear that poverty and consequently hunger are increasing all over the world, but also within the eu, due to the structural crisis of capitalism and the so-called austerity policies. we will be totally opposed to the attempts being made to end the community programme of food aid to the needy (pcaac) or to reduce substantially its budgetary allocations, when it is more than obvious that what is imperative at this moment is to strengthen it.
in writing. - i approve this report, as it expresses parliament's opinion on the proposal for a council directive on the consular protection of citizens of the union abroad, in the context of a consultation procedure. the aim of the proposal is to enable eu citizens to seek help from the diplomatic and consular services of all states when in a third country if their country has no consular representation. the level of protection provided shall be equivalent to that provided by the member state to its own national citizens. it is essential for european union citizens to know that where their member state is not represented in a third country, union citizens can now safely rely on the protection and assistance of the consular services of other member states or european union delegations. this proposal will help to strengthen the sense of belonging to the european union among european citizens throughout the world.
in writing. − under european law, any citizen of the union enjoys, in the territory of third countries where the member state of which he is a national is not represented, protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any member state, under the same conditions as nationals of that state. in order to facilitate citizens' access to their rights, including the right to protection in third countries, a new legislative instrument is necessary and this directive therefore aims at repealing directive 95/353/ec. i voted in favour of this report because i agree that in crisis situations the european union delegation should be responsible for coordinating and providing assistance in terms of crisis preparedness and coordinating all cooperation, including contingency plans between member states and evacuation, and ensuring that all eu citizens, including unrepresented citizens, are covered by the contingency plans. the union delegation shall have the necessary financial means to carry out the coordination. in order to facilitate future consular protection, member states should consider setting up a 'trust fund' for consular protection.
in writing. − pursuant to article 23 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), any citizen of the union shall, in the territory of a third country where the member state of which he is a national is not represented, be entitled to protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any member state on the same conditions as nationals of that state. this principle is enshrined in article 46 of the charter of fundamental rights. i believe that to facilitate eu citizens' access to their rights, including the right to protection in third countries, appropriate legislative instruments are needed. it is essential to ensure consular protection at local level and in crisis situations. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − despite the fact that an increasing number of union citizens live and work outside the union, consulates of all 27 member states can be found in only three third countries. the fundamental right, inherent in the concept of european citizenship, that every citizen of an unrepresented member state may obtain assistance from the consular authorities of other member states represented in that third country is therefore important. in order to facilitate access to their rights for eu citizens especially in view of the difficulties they have encountered in practice, in particular in the case of large-scale crises such as the 2004 tsunami, the arab spring in tunisia, egypt and libya, or the 2011 earthquake in japan, which have highlighted the need to provide consular protection to unrepresented citizens , it has become necessary to adopt a new legislative instrument establishing a common approach. i therefore support the adoption of this directive which establishes common concepts and identifies two levels of protection: local consular protection for day-to-day matters, which is left to the member states; and consular protection in crisis situations, where there should be cooperation between member states, under the coordination of eu delegations.
in writing. − consular protection is an integral part of eu policy and a fundamental right conferred by eu citizenship as defined in the treaties. and so i am voting in favour of this report which introduces measures of coordination and cooperation between the member states and the eu, harmonising consular protection concepts and practices and thereby facilitating the lives of european citizens in third countries. i would remind you that under the treaty of lisbon, solidarity between member states provides that a citizen of an unrepresented member state may seek assistance from the consular authorities of other member states who are represented. i welcome the commission's proposal that, by defining accessibility to the embassy or consulate as the time needed to reach and return to the point of departure on the same day, access to consular services is made easier and more accessible to all european citizens, because, whether or not they are represented in the third country, they can go to the nearest service. another example of how 'more europe' means more protection for its citizens. the eu delegation is now responsible for the coordination and provision of consular assistance in crisis situations, another step in the effective implementation of the european external action service!
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'consular protection of union citizens abroad' because i regard as positive the possibility for eu citizens not represented in third countries to be able to benefit from consular protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of another member state, in accordance with the principle enshrined in article 46 of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. − consular protection of european union citizens outside the eu, in cases where there is no diplomatic representation of the third country of which they are nationals, may be provided by the representation of any other eu member state present there. this applies both to conflict situations and to everyday situations where a citizen needs consular assistance or protection. this is fundamental to guaranteeing the rights of european citizens abroad and an essential element of coordination and solidarity between member states.
in writing. − according to article 46 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, 'all citizens of the union shall enjoy, in the territory of third countries where the member state of which they are nationals is not represented, protection by the diplomatic and consular authorities of any member state, under the same conditions as nationals of that state'. this same right is enshrined in article 23 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). this report, by colleague edit bauer, looks at the proposal for a council directive on the consular protection of citizens of the european union (eu) abroad and provides for two levels of consular protection: at local level in everyday life (loss of identity documents, arrest, detention or death) and in crisis situations. in order not to place a financial burden on the assisting member state (member state), each member state should set up a 'trust fund' from which it can draw the amount needed to cover the costs of supporting the foreign national, which is then reimbursed by the member state whose nationality the supported citizen is. i voted in favour of this report because i recognise the advantages for european citizens in implementing this directive.
in writing. − we agree with the principle of cooperation between states with a view to ensuring better consular protection for citizens of the different european countries. it is well known that the representation of member states in third countries is very uneven and that at the same time there has been a significant increase in the number of europeans travelling and residing outside the eu. the commission proposal is in line with article 46 of the charter of fundamental rights, which states that any citizen of the european union shall enjoy protection in third countries where his member state is not represented by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any other eu member state under the same conditions as nationals of that state. while we support the extension of this directive, we regret that in your proposal the rapporteur has introduced unjustified and unnecessary amendments to the objective of the proposal. changes we cannot support.
in writing. - we voted in favour of recognising that it is essential that consular protection can be guaranteed to european citizens abroad. however, we cannot but regret that the same principle and the same right have not been extended to refugees with recognised status, stateless persons or persons who, although not having the nationality of any of the member states, reside in the european union and, in particular, travel with a document issued by one of the member states.
in writing. - according to article 23 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), 'any citizen of the union shall, in the territory of a third country in which his member state of nationality is not represented, be entitled to protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any member state on the same conditions as nationals of that state'. this principle is enshrined in article 46 of the charter of fundamental rights. to facilitate eu citizens' access to their rights, including the right to protection in third countries, a new legislative instrument is needed. the stockholm programme, as well as the european parliament, called for common concepts in consular protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a council directive on the consular protection of citizens of the union abroad and clarifying the coordination and cooperation measures necessary for the daily consular protection of unrepresented eu citizens, which is a fundamental right conferred by eu citizenship as defined in the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the eu.
in writing. - we voted in favour of recognising that it is essential that consular protection can be guaranteed to european citizens abroad. however, we cannot but regret that the same principle and the same right have not been extended to refugees with recognised status, stateless persons or persons who, although not having the nationality of any of the member states, reside in the european union and, in particular, travel with a document issued by one of the member states.
in writing. - article 23 tfeu provides that 'any citizen of the union shall, in the territory of a third country where the member state of which he is a national is not represented, enjoy the protection of the diplomatic and consular authorities of any member state on the same conditions as nationals of that state'. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful organisms. i would like to stress that in crisis situations the eu delegation is responsible for coordinating the provision of assistance so as not to burden a particular member state. if necessary, you can ask for assistance from the eu civil protection mechanism. another element i would like to stress is the possibility for member states to apply this extension of rights to refugees and people in need of protection.
in writing. − the charter of fundamental rights states that any citizen of the european union shall, in third countries where his member state is not represented, enjoy protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any other member state under the same conditions as nationals of that state. we are of course in agreement with this mechanism which makes it possible to assist eu citizens. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. 'the union delegation shall coordinate the exchange of information on timely available evacuation capabilities, the evacuation itself and provide the necessary assistance to the evacuation, with possible support from existing intervention teams at union level.'; we do not agree with this transfer of powers which replaces the coordination processes between sovereign states by 'federalisation' and we fear that the intervention of the eeas will constitute another possibility of political interference in the countries concerned. it is also necessary to ensure that portuguese consular services and embassies do not close down because of the establishment of these assistance services.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that the european commission, following the european parliament's resolution, is presenting the working paper on 'the single market through the people's lens: a view of citizens and businesses, 20 key concerns'. this document should be given importance as it gives an overview of the obstacles encountered in the practice of the internal market. it is based on an analysis of complaints received by the european commission and the assistance services together with the results of the most recent eurobarometer surveys and targeted surveys. in conclusion, there is a gap between expectations and reality with regard to the single market. this difference results from shortcomings such as lack of information, gaps in applications and legislative vacuum the commission has also been active in the area of the protection of the environment. the economic, financial and social crisis that has affected europe since 2008 has had a strong impact on the single market, leading citizens to have a negative view of it, while the european institutions and member states are aware that the single market has not been fully exploited.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider it of the utmost importance to overcome the lack of information and understanding on the part of european citizens about their rights, to close the gap between the eu legislative framework and the way in which the legislation is applied in practice, and to strengthen legislation in areas where the existing rules do not meet the expectations of european citizens.
in writing. - as we celebrate the 20th anniversary of the creation of the single market, it is regrettable that the number of obstacles which still prevent european citizens from enjoying the full benefits of the single market is still so high. the effects of the economic and financial crisis that has been ravaging the eu have significantly contributed to increasing economic and social disparities between member states and regions, with serious consequences for the internal market and contributing to an increase in the mistrust of our citizens and businesses towards it. but it is worth remembering that the single market has been the backbone of the european economy and remains the basic condition for us to be able to meet the challenge of competitiveness and growth. we must see what is lacking, what has not worked, correct it and move forward in a proactive and dynamic spirit, responding to the expectations of our citizens. i therefore commend the rapporteur, regina bastos, for her excellent work in identifying the major concerns of citizens and businesses, and i agree with the guidelines she proposes. i would particularly urge the council to work towards an agreement on the package of measures provided for in the single market act i so that they can be implemented as quickly as possible.
in writing. − the internal market and related policies have enabled european citizens and businesses to access markets, products and information that are essential for their development and for ensuring competitiveness and growth. however, the internal market is not a static but a dynamic reality, a changing reality in a globalised world, where its development and further implementation must be constantly achieved through concrete policies and strategies. the recent launch of the package of measures (single market act ii) to develop the single market and exploit its full potential as a growth engine is therefore very positive.
in writing. - first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague regina bastos on her excellent report on the 20 major concerns of european citizens and businesses regarding the functioning of the single market (sm), which is the engine of major changes in the lives of europeans. when problems start to arise within the union, the so-called 'prophets of doom', also known as 'euro-skeptics', take the opportunity to tarnish the image of the european institutions and to omit all the advantages of this project. we are all aware that the full potential of the eu, one of the main pillars of the european project, together with the free movement of persons and goods, is not being exploited and that it is therefore necessary to solve the problems that prevent its maximisation, such as the problem of the recognition of professional qualifications in a simple, efficient and inexpensive way, or other obstacles such as social security, taxation, access to finance, online shopping, pensions, etc. only then will we have more mobility to have more europe. in the current context of economic and financial crisis, the single market is essential to overcome this situation, which is why i voted in favour of this report and i hope that everyone will join forces to quickly address the main concerns of citizens and businesses.
in writing. − on the 20th anniversary of the single market, this report criticises the obstacles to the smooth functioning of the single market, stresses the need to remove them and stresses that member states must promote, develop and improve the application of single market legislation. it is just another piece of the usual propaganda that always accompanies the emotional statements about the single market. the report argues that the single market is a driver of skilled labour mobility which 'could contribute to a more competitive europe'. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. it also calls for the completion of the internal energy market and a competitive digital single market, the liberalisation of public procurement and the railway sector, the implementation of the cross-border healthcare directive and the coordination of education systems with labour market needs. that is, more market advances in public services and, in general, in all areas of social life in which the process of capitalist accumulation can be exercised, even if this means putting rights such as education, health, water and sanitation, social security, among many others, in question. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − the single market is a key element in achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and in achieving the objectives of sustainable, smart and inclusive growth. the new paradigm of political thinking for the relaunch of the single market should be centred on citizens, consumers and businesses, in particular smes. there are still too many obstacles preventing europeans from taking full advantage of the existence of a single market, which is an obstacle to developing a sense of belonging to a single community. it is urgent to remedy these difficulties so as to enable europeans to enjoy fully their right to free movement and the benefits of membership of the european union.
in writing. - i am voting in favour, welcoming the work done by my colleague regina bastos on this dossier, in which she presents the european parliament's position on the commission working document on 'the 20 main concerns of european citizens and businesses regarding the functioning of the single market'.
in writing. − the single market of the european union was created to strengthen the links between citizens and member states, and is characterised by being a borderless area where people, goods, services and capital can move freely. the single market is an essential element for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. however, much remains to be done to enhance its effectiveness. so, in the year of its 20th anniversary, it is important to highlight the main concerns of european citizens and businesses with regard to its functioning. for the reasons i have just given, i voted in favour of the document in the european parliament.
in writing. - as the single market turns 20 this report criticises the obstacles to the 'good functioning' of the single market, stresses the need to remove them and stresses that member states must promote, develop and improve the application of single market legislation. it also calls for the completion of the internal energy market and a competitive digital single market, the liberalisation of public procurement and the railway sector, the implementation of the cross-border healthcare directive and the coordination of education systems with labour market needs. the internal market, i.e. the policies of liberalization, privatization and deregulation of the economy, have meant for the economically most vulnerable countries the destruction of their productive capacity, the decrease in their exports, the increase in imports in sectors such as energy and food, which have left them in situations of extreme external dependence, as is the case in portugal. this commemoration is thus being carried out against the interests of the peoples and workers of europe.
in writing. − this report gives a negative opinion on the council recommendation to appoint yves mersch as the new chairman of the executive board of the ecb and asks the council to withdraw its recommendation by submitting a new proposal. the justification for this position is based on the premise that this appointment does not respect the representation of women in the ecb, thus undermining gender equality and diversity in the executive board of the ecb, which until 2018 cannot be changed in terms of its composition. in view of the position expressed in this report, i vote against this diploma, as there is a broad consensus that the candidate has the recognised competence, qualifications and professional experience in the monetary and banking fields required for a seat on the executive board of the ecb. therefore, and given that the quality of this appointment makes her the best choice for the post in question, she should not be excluded on grounds of gender equality.
in writing. - it is a shame that the european parliament has rejected in plenary a candidate for the executive board of the european central bank with this quality and this curriculum, solely because of a gender equality issue!
in writing. - at a time when the european central bank is required to play a particularly attentive and interventionist role in monitoring the sovereign debt crisis, the stability of the euro and the economic recovery, i cannot but consider it symptomatic that this parliament prefers to situate this discussion on gender issues.
in writing. - the european institutions must be served by the best. in the present case, the newly appointed yves mersch has a flawless record and was approved with distinction at the hearing before the committee on economic and monetary affairs of the european parliament. however, because of a gender issue, her appointment was rejected by the european parliament. despite the tradition of always having a woman on the executive board of the european central bank, i find it regrettable that this nomination was not accepted because it is not a woman. we would certainly have an opportunity in the future to respond to the fact that there has always been a woman of this kind on the executive board of the ecb.
in writing. − this report gives a negative opinion on the council recommendation to appoint yves mersch as the new chairman of the executive board of the ecb and asks the council to withdraw its recommendation by submitting a new proposal. the justification for this position is based on the premise that this appointment does not respect the representation of women in the ecb, thus undermining gender equality and diversity in the executive board of the ecb, which until 2018 cannot be changed in terms of its composition. in view of the position expressed in this report, i vote against this diploma, as there is a broad consensus that the candidate has the recognised competence, qualifications and professional experience in the monetary and banking fields required for a seat on the executive board of the ecb. the commission has also taken into account the fact that the appointment of a new member of the management board is not a matter for the member states, but for the commission.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i considered it wrong to exclude a candidate who had demonstrated both professional and academic competence from the ecb's executive board. in this period of economic crisis in europe, it is essential that the executive board of the ecb has a competent team, capable of responding to the role that the current crisis requires of this institution.
in writing. - i approve this report adopting the commission proposal amending basic anti-dumping regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 by a simplified procedure, i.e. without amendments. it was urgent that the regulation be brought into line with the european court's ruling in its recent decision in the brossman case. however, in order to ensure legal certainty and in line with the council's position and in agreement with the commission, inta submitted an amendment to ensure that the investigation of dumping takes place within a defined time period, i.e. 'normally within seven months but not exceeding eight months from the initiation of the investigation'. i therefore agree with the provisions of this report and will vote in favour of the measures proposed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the strengthening of the eu's defence against dumped imports.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the agreement will allow for the reciprocal protection of geographical indications (gi) of agricultural products and foodstuffs of both parties and will contribute to the approximation of legislation between the eu's neighbouring countries. i agree with the rapporteur that the interests of the eu are well safeguarded by this agreement. i would stress that this agreement will stimulate the strengthening of eu-moldova trade relations. moldova is the next eu eastern partner after ukraine to conclude a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement in the framework of an association agreement with the eu.
in writing. - anti-dumping duties result from an investigation carried out by the commission following a complaint from one or more community producers, if they suspect dumping by certain countries/companies. where, as a result of an investigation, the commission finds that dumping is taking place and that the community is being injured, definitive anti-dumping duties are adopted, normally for a period of five years. however, during this period, the measures may be amended or even repealed. the sampling technique for the purpose of determining met claims was considered to be inapplicable by the court of justice of the european union. this decision should be taken into account and the related legislation should be amended accordingly. the protection of the european economy from unfair practices distorting fair competition must guide the union's action and guide its positions in international trade relations. the commission cannot fail to bear this need in mind.
in writing. - the european union (eu) is a territory with some 500 million consumers, making it a market that is highly attractive to the major economic powers, namely the so-called brics (brazil, russia, india and china). many of the products flooding european markets seek to evade customs controls and avoid recognition and certification processes. in order to prevent european consumers from being misled, the european parliament adopted council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009. this report concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community. article 1 (2) of the abovementioned regulation provides that 'a product is dumped if its export price to the community is lower than the comparable price of a like product established in the ordinary course of trade for the exporting country'. because i consider it essential to increase legal certainty in defending products from the member states against imports, and in view of the opinion of the committee on international trade, i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this report aims to amend regulation (ec) no 1225/2009. the proposal to amend this regulation follows a judgment of the court of justice of the eu in case c-249/10 p brosmann footwear (hk) and others v council of the european union, which annulled regulation (ec) no 1472/2006 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of certain footwear with uppers of leather originating in china and vietnam. in this judgment, the court of justice ruled that the sampling technique provided for in article 17 of regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 cannot be applied in this case and concluded that the cooperating producers not included in the sample are entitled to have their met claim analysed, whether or not an individual dumping margin should be calculated for these non-sampled companies. the commission considers that this decision would impose a disproportionate administrative burden on the investigators. it therefore considers that regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 should be amended, in particular as regards the three-month time limit. we are not looking at the introduction (now) of any anti-dumping duty. this is the procedural part of the application of regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 before the change of form.
in writing. - the fight against dumping of any kind should always be at the forefront of the european parliament's concerns. at a time of crisis like the one we are going through, we must protect our industry and our agriculture. we all know that there are countries which do not respect the most basic environmental, social and human rules, and then put their products on the market at prices which are impossible for eu producers to fight. we must therefore make every effort to limit this kind of practice as much as possible.
in writing. - in the interests of legal certainty and the principle of good administration, i voted in favour of this report as it is absolutely necessary that these amendments be applied as soon as possible to all new and pending investigations into possible dumping.
in writing. − this report aims to amend regulation (ec) no 1225/2009. the proposal to amend this regulation follows a judgment of the court of justice of the eu in case c-249/10 p brosmann footwear (hk) and others v council of the european union, which annulled regulation (ec) no 1472/2006 imposing a definitive anti-dumping duty and collecting definitively the provisional duty imposed on imports of certain footwear with uppers of leather originating in china and vietnam. in this judgment, the court of justice ruled that the sampling technique provided for in article 17 of regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 cannot be applied in this case and concluded that the cooperating producers not included in the sample are entitled to have their met claim examined. we are not looking at the introduction (now) of any anti-dumping duty. this is the procedural part of the application of regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 before the change of form.
in writing. − i approve this report, which follows the european commission's proposal of 18 july 2012 to the member states to open negotiations with japan on a bilateral free trade agreement (fta). the negotiations will focus on the elimination of non-tariff barriers to trade on the japanese market and on access to the japanese public procurement market. i welcome the report for supporting the launch of the eu-japan fta negotiations under a strict mandate, agreeing that the fta should be comprehensive and ambitious and that it should cover goods, services, investment, ipr and public procurement, with particular attention to the removal of non-tariff barriers. there should be a linkage review clause within one year of the launch of the negotiations to assess the climate of eu-japan relations and to assess whether it has brought clear results.
in writing. - it is essential that the eu explores all the opportunities for profitable business that seek to counter the economic crisis. the eu and japan together account for more than one third of world gdp and more than 20% of world trade. although the volume of bilateral trade between the eu and japan is much smaller than that with other countries such as the us, china and russia, it has been concluded that this relationship is far from reaching its potential. the commission should, in an initial round of negotiations on the free trade agreement (fta), eliminate non-tariff barriers (ntbs) and, at the same time, one year after the start of negotiations, ensure the completion of an impact study to assess the progress made in cooperation. assuming that japan will abolish the gnp and barriers to entry to the public procurement market, such an acl should be ambitious and compatible with all commercial determinations. if japan at any time shows a lack of ambition and alignment with eu priorities, the commission should consult parliament and the council to suspend the negotiations. i therefore support a trade relationship between the eu and japan, and i am sure that it can have positive economic consequences for both economies.
in writing. − the crisis facing the european union (eu) is forcing the european institutions to seize all investment opportunities that promote europe's economic growth and contribute to the creation of more jobs. in this context, the commercial potential of a country like japan cannot be underestimated and it is therefore necessary to develop and deepen bilateral trade relations. the potential of eu-japan trade relations is enormous and is under-exploited. however, this free trade agreement (fta) must safeguard the interests of the european economy, in particular with regard to some sectors that may be affected, by requiring japan in return to remove non-tariff barriers, allow european companies to oppose public tenders and commit to respecting eu values on human rights. the parties have agreed on a timetable and roadmap with the steps to be taken. the conditions are therefore in place for the negotiations to begin with great prospects of success. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the japan-acp because it represents a great opportunity to help develop the eu economy.
in writing. the resolution sets out parliament's priorities for the eu-japan free trade agreement and asks the council to authorise the commission to open negotiations on the agreement. the house also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's trade policy is not distorted by the wto rules. it provides for the inclusion of a binding review clause to assess japan's progress in this area. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. anyway, the usual rhetoric. it should be noted that there are contradictions which have already emerged and which may influence the course of the negotiations. it is the interests - 'offensive' and above all 'defensive' - of the german car industry which are at stake in this case, given the size and importance of the japanese industry in the same sector. we agree, much more powerful interests than those represented, for example, by portuguese textiles, so damaged in previous liberalizations negotiated by the masters of this eu, or other low/medium technology-intensive sectors - which faced the consequent destruction of productive activity and jobs.
in writing. - the eu and japan together account for more than one third of world gdp and about 20% of world trade. in 2011, the total amount of bilateral trade in goods between the eu and japan was only eur 116.4 billion, in contrast to eur 444.7 billion for eu-us trade, eur 428.3 billion for eu-china trade and eur 306.6 billion for eu-russia trade. we have a lot to improve on in terms of increasing trade relations between the eu and japan, which we hope will be achieved in these negotiations. in this time of economic crisis, it is essential that significant improvements in eu relations with japan are achieved. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this european parliament resolution on the eu negotiations with japan. the text of the resolution stresses that there are still deep differences between the eu and japan on issues related to fisheries management and whaling, including japan's whaling practices under the guise of scientific research, and reiterates the call for wider discussions on the issue of the abolition of whaling and trade in whale products.
in writing. − there is a willingness between the two blocs, the eu and japan, to establish trade negotiations that will deepen economic integration between them. japan has announced its intention to remove non-tariff barriers in the automotive sector and in public procurement. the two blocs' will to establish a free trade agreement was reaffirmed at the 2011 eu-japan summit. according to commission figures, a trade agreement with japan would have a major economic effect in the eu, with the potential to create 420 000 jobs and increase european exports by some 23.5%. however, if non-tariff barriers to trade are reduced to the maximum, there could be a possible increase of 71% in eu exports to japan and 61% in japanese exports to the eu. the eu and japan together now account for more than one third of world gdp and more than 20% of world trade. i therefore vote in favour of opening trade negotiations with japan, given the socioeconomic benefits that will come from the signing of a trade agreement between the two blocs.
in writing. the resolution sets out parliament's priorities for the eu-japan free trade agreement and asks the council to authorise the commission to open negotiations on the agreement. parliament agreed that japan had to remove non-tariff barriers (gnp) in order to implement this agreement. we know, however, that what is at stake here is the interest of the german car industry in view of the size and importance of the japanese industry in the same sector. it was the same logic of liberalization that destroyed portuguese textiles, their productive activity and jobs.
in writing. − i approve this report, recalling article 208 tfeu which establishes poverty reduction and eradication as the eu's main objectives for development policy, and that the eu must take the objectives of development cooperation into account in the policies it implements which are likely to affect developing countries. synergies between eu policies are thus essential, and the cfp is an opportunity for the eu to establish equal and sustainable partnerships with developing countries that go beyond development cooperation. the report also stresses that parliament, as a co-legislator, has a key responsibility to translate commitments into concrete policies. i also support the report's call for the member states and their national parliaments to promote the dpc through a specific work programme with binding timetables and for the introduction of an annual meeting structure between representatives of the national parliaments of the eu. finally, i fully agree with the report's approach to include specific recommendations in the five areas of focus: trade, agricultural and fisheries policy, climate change, energy security and migration.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the various points in it, particularly those relating to climate change and energy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, although i regret the absence of a european strategy for each organisation of which the member states or the eu are part, and i consider that the road to credibility, coherence and visibility of the eu's external action is not yet complete. the complexity of the international system requires that member states' actions and commitments bilaterally and between member states and the eu be coordinated across the various platforms on which we interact. that is why we adopted the treaty of lisbon! the eu, the largest donor of development aid, has over the years supported developing countries politically, financially and even militarily to provide them with the stability and peace they need for their development and to meet the mdgs. it is therefore urgent to continue along this path by creating the conditions for the implementation of a more comprehensive approach to poverty eradication and sustainable development and to promote policy coherence for development. a final note of congratulations, as a european citizen, on the nobel peace prize recently awarded to the eu for its 60 years of work for peace and development on the european continent and in the world!
in writing. − policy coherence for development (pcd) is enshrined in article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which calls for the reduction and, in the long term, the total eradication of poverty as the number one objective of european development policy. the cpd therefore has a political and human value to which the legal value is added. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu-us joint action on the prevention of and fight against the illicit trade in human beings and the illicit exploitation of sexual and reproductive resources. the eu will not only be contributing to poverty reduction, but will also be encouraging developing countries to build their own trading structures, creating jobs and eventually competing as trading partners of the eu.
in writing. the report under review, by birgit schnieber-jastram, is concerned with the european union (eu) report on policy coherence for development. the aim of development policies is to eradicate poverty throughout the world so that all people have a minimum quality of life, both in terms of security and comfort. to this end, a number of countries have taken a stand and adopted measures to tackle the poverty that should be the shame of so-called modern societies. the millennium development goals, the treaty on the functioning of the european union and, more recently, the europe 2020 strategy, all give priority to reducing and eventually eradicating poverty, which, as we know, mainly affects the most disadvantaged groups, children and women. in view of the opinions of the committee on employment and social affairs, the committee on fisheries and the committee on women's rights and gender equality, i am voting in favour of this report and hope that the recommendations contained in it will be taken into account.
in writing. - we have often drawn attention in this parliament to the problem of policy coherence for development (pcd). we strongly condemn the inconsistency of the eu's sectoral policies with the stated objectives in the field of development cooperation. this report draws attention to several important aspects, which we value, such as: the lack of funding in the area of health; the failure of a substantial part of the fisheries agreements, in particular the weak results achieved in the fields of scientific and technical cooperation and sustainable development of the sector (an aspect which we pointed out in the opinion of the committee on fisheries, for which we were rapporteurs); the importance of policies to promote equality between men and women; the recognition of the right of each country to define its own policies, priorities and strategies in a democratic way. unfortunately, other aspects are either forgotten or not properly addressed. the problem of brain drain (not taking into account the effects of the 'blue card' in developing countries); the persistence of tax havens and the capital flight and economic crime to which they open the door; the question of access to raw materials from developing countries without taking into account the objectives of local development and poverty eradication. these are just a few examples. that is why we abstained.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because: it recognises the inconsistencies that have existed in the policies between the eu and developing countries (dcs) on trade, fisheries, agriculture, energy, migration and climate change, and that have affected the development objectives; it calls for the eu to respect the economic, social and cultural rights of peoples; calls on the commission to include in all eu trade agreements provisions on social matters, full employment, decent work, respect for workers' rights and gender equality, and the promotion of collective bargaining. the eu is called upon to respect the human rights of migrants in its migration policies and not to make development aid dependent on the performance of the developing countries in reducing migration flows. on arms exports, it calls for the eu to require more reliable information from member states and for a legally binding eu code of conduct on arms exports to be developed. the european parliament is called upon to ensure greater political coherence and greater control by the european parliament in the service of development.
in writing. − article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union enshrines the reduction and, eventually, the eradication of poverty, as defined in the european consensus on development, as the first objective of eu development policy, and that the union shall take development cooperation objectives into account in the policies it implements and which are likely to affect developing countries. the eu's efforts in policy coherence for development (pcd) insist that pcd is not just a legal obligation, but responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive policy-making; providing an opportunity for the eu to establish sustainable and equitable partnerships with developing countries, going beyond mere development cooperation. it also stresses that policies aligned with the dpc give governments and societies in developing countries the opportunity and responsibility to generate success for themselves. that is the role of the eu in relation to the cpd, hence my vote in favour.
in writing. − policy coherence for development is not just a legal obligation, but the design of responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive policies that provide an opportunity for the eu to establish sustainable and equitable partnerships with developing countries, while also giving governments and societies in developing countries the opportunity and responsibility to generate success for themselves. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it recognises the policy inconsistencies that have existed between the eu and developing countries (dcs) in trade, fisheries, agriculture, energy, migration and climate change, and which have affected development objectives; calls on the eu to respect the economic, social and cultural rights of peoples; calls on the commission to include in all eu trade agreements provisions on social matters, full employment, decent work, respect for workers' rights and gender equality and the promotion of collective bargaining. the eu is called upon to respect the human rights of migrants in its migration policies and not to make development aid dependent on the performance of the developing countries in reducing migration flows. on arms exports, it calls for the eu to require more reliable information from member states and for a legally binding eu code of conduct on arms exports to be developed. the european parliament is called upon to ensure greater political coherence and greater control by the european parliament in the service of development.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a document on the coherence of eu development policies. welcoming the european union's efforts in the field of development, parliament insisted that this should not be a mere legal obligation but should be a responsible, transparent, human rights-based and inclusive policy approach and provide an opportunity for the eu to establish sustainable and equitable partnerships with developing countries, going beyond mere cooperation. i voted in favour of the document in the plenary.
in writing. − we agree with some of the 'calls for attention' in the report: the lack of funding in the area of health; the failure of a substantial part of the fisheries agreements, in particular the weak results achieved in the fields of scientific and technical cooperation and sustainable development of the sector; the importance of policies to promote equality between men and women; the recognition of the right of each country to define its own policies, priorities and strategies in a democratic way. on the other hand, the report omits or devalues aspects which we consider essential when we are dealing with the coherence of development policies, namely: the problem of 'brain drain'; the persistence of tax havens and capital flight and economic crime; the question of access to raw materials from developing countries without taking into account the objectives of local development and poverty eradication.
mr president, the european institutions continue to speak emphatically about partial aspects of financial regulation, in this case in relation to the markets associated with commodities. however, does this approach live up to the expectations that the european commission itself created when it came to accepting the end of derived products themselves from 2008 onwards? we are convinced that it is not, that the fight against financial speculation is far short of what is necessary and cannot be done in a partial way, because what would be socially and economically just would be a total fight against the speculative system itself, attacking not only the form but also its content. in this sense, we must not hide the essential facts, but must defend the end of the derivatives market and tax havens, and a truly effective control by political power over financial power. what you're doing here is just putting a tiny grain of sand into a gear that will continue to work in the essentials.
the report by mr gauzès, together with the report we are going to draw up on the annual growth prospects for the union at the end of this year, and which will precede the spring council, are two essential parts of the so-called european semester. this report deals with the recommendations made to each of the member states by the council, on a proposal from the commission, and these recommendations form, as has just been said, with the six pack and the future two pack, an extraordinarily strong body which strengthens european control over the economic and budgetary policy of the member states. the balance between this control and autonomy and legitimacy at national level is not easy to find and it has fallen to a level of imposition, above all, of discipline and, in the last resort, may even give rise to a serious package of sanctions. i would like to make a brief comment on the two pack, namely that it is important for the council, which is absent today, to give its negotiators a negotiating mandate compatible with the ambition to conclude this package, this two pack, quickly. but more european coordination, to return to the subject, means less control by countries over their own destiny, which requires a subtle balance but also an increased demand with the quality of the recommendations that are made to countries in at least three or four dimensions. first, it is important to ensure coherence between the medium and long-term objectives, which include growth, employment and real convergence, and the short-term recommendations, which focus mainly on discipline and nominal convergence; secondly, there must be consistency with the conclusions to be drawn from the analysis on macroeconomic imbalances, in particular on the asymmetric impact of common policies and negative externalities, the indirect effects of some national policies on other countries; thirdly, we must agree that there is a minimum threshold of social, economic and labour rights which cannot be exceeded by these recommendations, and lastly, it is important that the quality of the recommendations be measured in terms of the results achieved, which has not been the case so far. i would like to conclude, mr president, by thanking mr gauzès for his spirit of cooperation and hope that he will take a further step in that spirit, so as to widen the basis of consensus around his report and that this spirit will also remain with regard to the next report we are going to discuss.
i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is aware that the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european semester is not delayed. we all know that the treaties impose limits on trade surpluses, and we all know that germany does not comply with them. that is a fact. there is no lack of recommendations from the european commission in this respect and germany does not follow the recommendations, and frankly, i do not hear anyone saying anything about this. my question is, where are the sanctions? on the other hand, it is proposed that sanctions should be accepted as a matter of course for countries which do not meet the deficit and debt targets laid down in the treaties, and everyone seems to agree on this. it's that they're all too strong for the weak but too weak for the strong. as long as no sanctions are applied to countries which have trade surpluses because they have violated the treaties, and we agree that they would be better able to pay them because their violation is to accumulate surpluses, i think it is immoral to take for granted that countries which have violated the treaties should also be automatically made to pay for accumulating deficits, and even for that reason they have much more difficulty paying. this is not democratic. even as regards compliance with the deficit and debt, the rule does not apply to everyone, because we know very well that it is immediate for the countries which are under troika intervention, but the same does not apply to the countries of central or northern europe which do not meet the same criteria. and this is not democratic! and finally, only when we can bring some justice to all this will we achieve the much-needed real economic coordination. until then we shall always be putting more emphasis on the implementation of measures which are based exclusively on budget cuts, privatisation of public services and blatant tax increases. this is the revenue, without adding or subtracting, and i will end here, mr president, this is the revenue, without adding or subtracting, which is being applied to the state budgets of the countries under intervention. and for these citizens the european semester is synonymous with injustice and poverty, in portugal, in a single european semester, we have managed to go back decades in terms of rights.
the joy with which the majority of this parliament speaks of the european semester can only be the result of an exercise in denying the reality that is out there. we cannot even speak of the fact that the elected bodies of national sovereignty are prevented from deciding sovereignly on the destiny of their country, a decision which no one has ever asked the people to make, but let us first discuss the content of these recommendations. the rhetoric of the need for growth and jobs is often repeated, but what is certain is that the recommendations themselves in the framework of the european semester are the ones that require a reduction in public investment, privatisation and, in several countries such as portugal, a reduction in the level of wages, when already one third of portuguese people earn less than 600 euros. in other words, what the commission and the council are recommending is more recession, more unemployment and more poverty. reality is out there, and you can prove it. you just don't want to see it, you don't care to see it.
in writing. the european semester, which the right wing and social democrats praise, was set up to 'coordinate economic policies'. something "fundamental" in these times of crisis in the eu, they say. almost everyone speaks of "coordination" as an end in itself. they hide the essential: coordination around what and by what means? the commission is trying to answer that. the recommendations for portugal are clear: lower wages (in the country with the lowest wages in the eu); reduce the duration of unemployment benefits (when they reach historical levels and when long-term unemployment increases); more measures to 'flex' labour relations (i.e. to raise the level of exploitation to the level of the 19th century). we also know what the means are: reducing national parliaments - the power structures closest to the citizens and best controlled by them - to mere words to fill in, puppets of the european institutions, to whose examination they have to submit their budgetary options, subjecting themselves to prior censorship. the objectives of this 'european semester', which represents a dangerous attack on democracy (even if it is understood only in a purely formal sense), are clear: to 'coordinate' a violent retreat of civilization in europe, levelling living and working conditions on the continent.
in the first half of the 1990s, the european commission carried out a number of studies which set out minimum values for the community budget in order to achieve the objective of cohesion. these studies said that a budget of at least 2% of the european union's gdp was needed. almost 20 years after the biggest enlargement in the history of the european union, which has increased internal differences significantly, the budget is half that and there are still those who want to reduce it. they now want to ensure that, by some miracle of the multiplication of loaves, even by reducing the budgetary appropriations, more funds can be made available. there are many questions that arise with these financial instruments. the report also acknowledges the failure of the public financing of private profits and risks to be applied in cohesion policy in many countries. we should not waste time inventing apparently innovative instruments which only increase differences, inflate financial markets and hide the real ways in which the necessary increase in the community budget could and should have been implemented long ago.
author. − mr president, the increasing crackdown on human rights and civil liberties by the government of the united arab emirates is worrying. the current policy of detention, harassment and intimidation of human rights defenders and political activists has swept up prominent human rights lawyers, judges, law professors, bloggers, student leaders, religious conservatives and liberals alike. particularly worrying is the fact that many of the detained are kept incommunicado, denied legal assistance and allegedly subjected to torture. in fact the only information we seem to have about the detainees is provided by the uae human rights committee, which is a government organisation and does not supply independent or credible information. even when alleged national security concerns are at stake, the uae authorities need to ensure that detainees deemed to have broken the law are charged with a crime, provided with legal assistance of their choosing and brought before a judge in a fair trial. we also call on the uae authorities to enforce freedom of speech and press freedom, which are granted under the constitution in the uae, since no real enforcement of such freedoms can take place when the harassment of those who call for greater political participation and inclusive institutions is not independently investigated, and when the penal code allows for the prosecution of those who today criticise the government. another matter of great concern, which we wish was in the resolution which we are to adopt, is the situation of migrant workers who are badly discriminated against and not protected in the uae.
blue-card answer to nirj deva. − yes, that is exactly the reason why the government of the uae should not fear disclosure of information and freedom of speech and of the press. if these allegations that you mention are correct there should be no reason to prevent these basic freedoms. in the same way i would like to draw attention to the exploitation of migrant workers, which is a really serious problem, and i would call for cooperation of the authorities with the ilo.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the rights of workers are respected. the legal framework is currently very unfair to migrant workers, gives excessive power to employers and allows them to interfere with the lives, including the personal lives of their employees. there are laws that impede essential labour rights such as the right to association or collective bargaining. without such rights, workers who are also immigrants have no way of asking for better treatment and are therefore condemned to an existence that is demoralizing and inhuman, this must stop. we call on the authorities in the united arab emirates to move forward to provide more equality in the workplace, to build a good legal framework that gives workers their rights, that allows them to associate, that allows them to have freedom of expression in and outside the workplace and that gives them citizenship rights in the united arab emirates.
the cowardly attack by the taliban on malala yousufzai has awakened the world to the tragedy of the lives of women and girls in pakistan, which is now the third most dangerous country for women. the so-called islamic fundamentalist but actually anti-islamist drift, embodied in the taliban, is at the root of violence against women in pakistan and neighboring afghanistan, denying their role in society, including basic rights to education, to civic participation, to choice about how to live their lives, their lives, as we are seeing in the case of malala. and the tragedy of malala has indeed shook the world, it has shook pakistan itself. the wave of solidarity that has been generated around this brave girl, whose only crime was to act and speak freely to demand her rights, cannot fall apart. it is time to say that business as usual with pakistan is over, it is time to demand that the pakistani civil and military authorities break free from the dangerous ties and controlling power of the taliban and to engage effectively in protecting their people against religious intolerance and violence that particularly affects women and girls. the european union cannot cultivate relations or invest in cooperation agreements with a government that remains in denial and does nothing while children are being mortally attacked for going to school, while children are being forced into marriage, while children are being used as bargaining chips in settling disputes, while children are being trained by armed groups to carry out suicide attacks with the support of the pakistani military intelligence services. it is with pakistani civil society, the mobilizing society, that the european union has to interact.
author. − mr president, the problem of land grabbing in the developing world is clearly illustrated in cambodia, where about 400 000 people have been displaced and dispossessed of their land and homes by local and national authorities and corporate businesses. this policy, which was not properly addressed in the last review of the land concession law, prevents national reconciliation and lasting stability, increases inequality, harms sustainable development and calls into question the legitimacy of the government. the situation is only made worse by the use of excessive force against activists and protesters, for which no one is held accountable. thus, we urge the cambodian government to cease forced evictions and put in place a transparent and accountable legal framework in cooperation with civil society and in compliance with international standards, namely granting those evicted compensation and adequate accommodation. finally, i urge the high representative and the commission to closely monitor european companies’ activities in cambodia and ensure that they are not compliant with these abuses.
in writing. − i welcome the successful conclusion of the negotiations for a new agreement extending the energy star programme, as the programme has been extremely effective in driving the office equipment market towards greater energy efficiency. however, i am of the opinion that the rapporteur, while regretting that the principle of mutual recognition will no longer apply due to the introduction of third party certification in the united states, considers it preferable to keep the simpler procedure of self-certification in the eu in order to avoid additional costs for manufacturers, in particular smes. furthermore, it is noted that the commission does not consider that the fact that there is no mutual recognition will have a negative impact on the manufacturers participating in the eu programme, given that they tend to focus almost exclusively on the eu market. on the other hand, eu exports to the usa would be mainly from large manufacturers that have registered their products in the past in the usa. in the light of the above, i approve the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. − the energy star programme was set up by the united states environmental protection agency (epa) to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment. in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment. the agreement was renewed in 2006 for a second five-year period and now this parliament is giving its consent to a further renewal of this important eu-us coordination programme.
in writing. - the recommendation under consideration, by béla kovács, concerns the proposal for a council decision on the signing and conclusion of the agreement between the government of the united states of america (usa) and the european union (eu) on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment. the existing agreement between the eu and the us expired on 31 december 2011. however, the previous month, bilateral negotiations to continue the energy star programme for another five years had been concluded. this programme, created by the us environmental protection agency, aims to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment and was applied to the eu in 2006 when the eu/us agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment was renewed. however, the us decided to shift the certification to third parties, and the principle of mutual certification no longer applies. given the extreme importance of environmental issues, particularly in terms of energy saving, and given that the energy star programme has proven to be very effective in making changes to office equipment to increase its energy efficiency, i am voting in favour of this recommendation.
in writing. the report approves the conclusion of an agreement to extend the energy star programme, set up by the us environmental protection agency (epa) to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment. since 2000, the eu and the us have agreed to coordinate their labelling programmes for five years, renewing it for a second period in 2006. the programme was managed by the european commission and epa, including cooperation in the development of product specifications and mutual recognition of eu and us registered products. the rapporteur, while agreeing to the extension of this programme, notes, however, that the principle of mutual recognition will no longer apply, due to the introduction of third party certification in the usa. the european commission considers, however, that this will not have a particular impact on european smes (the commission guarantees that european manufacturers tend to sell in the european market in the vast majority and that large exporters have already registered their products in the us), and it is therefore preferable to keep the simpler procedures of self-certification in the eu in order to avoid additional costs for manufacturers, in particular smes. the report was adopted by consensus in the committee on industry. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the energy star programme was set up by the united states environmental protection agency (epa) to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment. in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment. the agreement, which was renewed in 2006 for a second five-year period, provides for the implementation of the energy star programme in the eu. thus, the programme was managed jointly by epa and the commission, including cooperation in the development of product specifications and mutual recognition of products registered in the eu and the us. under the new agreement, there will be two independent product registration systems in the eu, which retains self-certification by manufacturers, and the us, which has decided to move to third party certification. the principle of mutual recognition therefore no longer applies. the provisions concerning the respective responsibilities of the commission and the member states for the implementation of the programme have also been clarified. there are no other significant changes to the current text. hence my vote.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report giving a favourable opinion to the council on the conclusion of the eu-us agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment.
in writing. − the european parliament welcomes the successful conclusion of the negotiations for a new agreement extending the energy star programme, as the programme has been extremely effective in driving the office equipment market towards greater energy efficiency. while it is regrettable that the principle of mutual recognition will no longer apply due to the introduction of third party certification in the united states, it is preferable to maintain the simpler self-certification procedure in the eu in order to avoid additional costs for manufacturers, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − this report supports the agreement to extend the energy star programme, set up by the us environmental protection agency (epa), its owner, to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment. since 2000, the eu and the us have agreed on matters relating to the coordination of labelling programmes for five years, and renewed the agreement in 2006 for a second period. the programme was managed by the commission and epa, which focused on cooperation in developing product specifications and mutual recognition of eu and us registered products. parliament now approves the conclusion of the agreement and the principle of mutual recognition will no longer apply, due to the introduction of third party certification in the usa. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. as regards sales, the commission assures that the vast majority of european manufacturers tend to sell on the european market and that the major exporters have long been based in the usa. we voted in favour.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that the ifi does not generate unforeseen expenditure/contingent liability to the eu budget where the eu's liability is limited to the amount of the eu contribution committed to the ifi in question, based on annual budgetary appropriations approved by the budgetary authority (of the ep and the council). on the contrary, the ifi can generate revenues (reimbursements), which must be reinvested in the fund concerned, thus strengthening its multiplier effect. the ep is very strongly defending this principle. unfortunately, the council is more reluctant. the new financial regulation to be adopted in october 2012 (grassle/rivellini report) should facilitate the use of reimbursements. however, concrete measures will have to be laid down. i agree with this report, but in conclusion i believe that the ifi deserves a simpler, clearer, more transparent legal framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it recognises that financial instruments are an important tool for providing finance and an opportunity to create multiplier and leverage effects and can therefore in some cases be a more efficient and effective means of public support, although the risks they entail should be taken care of.
in writing. - mrs eider gardiazábal rubial presented a report on innovative financial instruments in the context of the next multiannual financial framework (mff). this is a matter of the utmost relevance, not only for the opportunity we are preparing the mff 2014-2020 , but also for the content. with the crisis still ongoing and in view of the challenges facing the european union (eu) in achieving the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy, all ways to increase the eu's financial resources without burdening member states' budgets are welcome. indeed, to stimulate economic growth and job creation, we need more support for smes to become more innovative, competitive and international. i agree with the opinion of the committee on budgetary control that the financial instruments must be well coordinated so that they do not always benefit the same beneficiaries.
in writing. − this proposal uses the already open window for transferring unused funds from the eu budget to the creation of the so-called financial instruments (fi), to give them a more instrumental role in the priorities for the next financial framework. the ifs are nothing more than instruments for the transfer of funds that were public (such as the cohesion fund) to the financial (and speculative) sphere. the majority of meps want to go further than before, by extending its scope to 'projects, groups of projects or parts of programmes which will generate profits' through public-private partnerships (public funding and private profit). these instruments and the funds - the commission estimates that €1.6 trillion will be needed by 2020 to tackle the seven thematic initiatives of the eu 2020 strategy - will be used to finance major infrastructure projects, which will serve to consolidate the 'single market' and its beneficiaries. in parallel, the eu's direct participation in the capital of infrastructure projects is advocated. the chronic shortage of the community budget is now being compounded by other risks, such as the even more unequal distribution of its resources, with (even greater) weakening of the objectives of cohesion.
in writing. − the introduction of these new financial instruments in the next mff is essential to develop the major projects foreseen for the european union, especially in these difficult times of economic crisis. these new instruments can stimulate investment in the real economy in a way consistent with their objectives, in a context where the continuing decline in resources allocated to the community budget is in contrast to the steady growth of its policy ambitions.
in writing. − the experience gained to date in the field of financial instruments is generally satisfactory. in view of all the favourable opinions of the committees involved, i voted in favour of this resolution on innovative financial instruments in the context of the next multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − innovative financial instruments allow for a complementary combination of grants from the eu budget with public and/or private funding, thus increasing the volume of investment available to achieve the eu's strategic objectives. in a context of constantly decreasing resources allocated to its budget, i cannot but agree with the proposal to create innovative financial instruments because the european union can thus stimulate the volume of investment in the real economy. i also find it extremely positive that the application of financial instruments is extended to the thematic objectives and funds of the common strategic framework, as well as to projects, groups of projects or parts of programmes which will generate revenue and profits.
in writing. - what we are discussing here is the creation of so-called financial instruments as a way of transferring funds that were public (such as the cohesion fund) to the financial (and speculative) sphere. the report also advocates extending its scope to 'projects, groups of projects or parts of programmes which will generate profits' through public-private partnerships. these instruments and funds will be used to finance major infrastructure projects, which will serve to consolidate the 'single market' and its beneficiaries. we are firmly opposed to this decision, which will lead to a still more unequal distribution of the resources of the community budget and will undermine the objectives of cohesion.
in writing. - i approve this report because it is rigorous in terms of presenting and processing data relating to the exercise of its functions. i take this opportunity to draw attention to the fact that in 2011 the ombudsman registered 2 510 complaints, compared with 2 667 in 2010. it is thus a body to which citizens turn more frequently, which increasingly reveals the relevance of its existence and its usefulness.
in writing. − the european ombudsman is competent to receive complaints concerning maladministration in the activities of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies. on 22 may 2012, it presented its 2011 annual report, which showed that it had helped more than 22 000 citizens, of whom 2 510 had lodged complaints, 1 284 had requested information and 18 274 had obtained advice through the interactive guide. the significant reduction in requests for information received in recent years demonstrates the success of the interactive guide. it is also worth noting that the number of investigations opened against parliament has decreased significantly compared to 2010. despite the success, the number of complaints processed in 2011 was again relatively modest (around 27%). more comprehensive and proactive citizen awareness projects should therefore be envisaged, all eu actors are urged to act in accordance with the european code of good administrative behaviour and the ombudsman should continue to ensure the best use of resources. the full exercise of rights by eu citizens, including the right to complain, is seen as essential to the realisation of the european project. that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european ombudsman did a remarkable job in 2011. during 2011, the ombudsman assisted more than 22 000 citizens, of whom 2 510 lodged complaints, 1 284 requested information and 18 274 obtained advice via the internet. the overall number of complaints lodged with the european ombudsman has gradually decreased, especially the number of complaints falling outside the ombudsman's remit, certainly as a result of the improvement in communication with european citizens. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in the common effort to bring the european institutions closer to the citizens, the european ombudsman plays a key role. the greater clarity and openness of the european administration is a win-win for its action and citizens have the assurance that their rights are defended, their complaints heard and their doubts clarified also at union level. the annual report of the provider shall reflect this effort and the initiatives taken to this end. i record their number and their quality and how they knew how to interpret their function. however, there are still doubts about the scope of its powers which need to be clarified.
in writing. − the european ombudsman's role is to receive complaints about maladministration in the activities of the eu institutions, bodies, offices and agencies and to deal with them as he sees fit. it submits an annual report on its activities to the european parliament (ep). the annual report for 2011 was handed over to the president of the ep, martin schulz, on 22 may. according to the same, we found that there was a slight decrease in the number of complaints submitted, 2 510 (less 157 than in 2011), of which only 698 (27%) fell within their competence. i welcome the work of the european ombudsman and welcome the innovations introduced, in particular the success of the interactive guide available on the website, which allows citizens to obtain the information they want in real time, without leaving their homes and without a formal request. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague erminia mazzoni and i congratulate the ombudsman on all the efforts he has made to bring his procedures closer to the citizen.
in writing. − the european ombudsman's annual report 2011 gives an account of his work, presents statistics on complaints received, numbers of inquiries carried out, among other information. the total number of complaints received was 2510, which led the ombudsman to launch 396 inquiries, of which 58% were directed at the european commission and 11% at the european personnel selection office. the average duration of the investigations was 10 months. in addition to these complaints, 1 284 people requested information and 18 274 obtained advice through the interactive guide on the ombudsman's website. the ombudsman's mandate has been extended - an inseparable process from the (undemocratic) concentration of new powers and competences in the eu, to which the lisbon treaty paved the way. it has now included possible maladministration in the context of the common foreign and security policy, including the common security and defence policy. the main types of alleged maladministration were questions of illegality, including refusal of information, bias, unsatisfactory procedures, avoidable delay, discrimination and letter replies in a language other than that of the complainants. in general, the ombudsman's intervention was useful, and the efforts made to facilitate the submission of complaints, which the report rightly points out, were noteworthy.
in writing. − the 2011 annual report was presented to the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, and subsequently to parliament's committee on petitions, the committee responsible for relations with the parliament. since there is nothing to object to or point out by the committee on petitions, i voted in favour of this report which gives an account of the european ombudsman's activity throughout 2011.
in writing. − the european parliament approved the annual report 2011 presented by the european ombudsman, noting that the ombudsman helped over 22 000 citizens, of whom 2 510 lodged complaints, 1 284 requested information and 18 274 obtained advice. i welcomed the fact that the number of inquiries opened by the ombudsman against parliament had decreased by more than half compared to 2010, and i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the total number of complaints received by the european ombudsman (2011) was 2 510, which led the ombudsman to launch 396 inquiries, of which 58% were directed at the european commission and 11% at the european personnel selection office. the average duration of the investigations was 10 months. in addition to these complaints, 1 284 people requested information and 18 274 people obtained advice through the interactive guide on the ombudsman's website. in general, the ombudsman's intervention was useful, and the efforts made to facilitate the submission of complaints, which the report rightly points out, were noteworthy. we are, however, against the expansion and centralisation of powers in this area, which is enshrined in the treaty of lisbon.
in writing. - i approve this report. the texts deal with various aspects of the structure of financial markets, the instruments and the actors, and in my view they represent a very important step towards increasing transparency and ensuring a good price formation process on european stock exchanges. we must ensure that transparency requirements are increased for high-frequency trading firms so that everyone is aware of their technical trading. another very important issue is the so-called commodities and agricultural derivatives: this is an important policy issue and it is important to have provisions to reduce speculation in food markets. there should therefore be more transparency requirements and stricter rules for the rights of asset managers vis-à-vis their clients, and strict limitations should be introduced for the practice of so-called 'incentives'. on this last point, member states will have the option of prohibiting incentives. this is a text with a good compromise and a strong starting point for starting negotiations with the council. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the financial interests of the union.
in writing. − this directive aims to regulate the provision of investment services in financial markets by banks and investment firms or others regularly engaged in investment activities on a professional basis. the european commission proposes a revision of the mifid directive to promote more efficient, resilient and transparent financial markets and strengthen investor protection. achieving these objectives requires the establishment of common regulatory requirements for investment firms in the european union ensuring the full functioning of the single market. this directive will bring numerous benefits by creating more structured and robust markets, better managing the framework for technological innovation in the functioning of capital markets, increasing transparency and facilitating the supervision of capital markets. all these measures will make it possible to better protect investors in the market. in this connection, and considering that the adoption of this legislation is a fundamental step in the regulation of the eu's financial markets in order to correct its shortcomings and improve the transparency and regulation of financial markets, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − following the profound changes in financial instruments markets in recent years, and in response to the declaration by leaders at the g20 summit in 2009, the european commission has put forward a set of proposals to strengthen the rules applied to these markets. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the organised trading systems (otfs) which are playing an increasingly active role in these markets are now regulated, and it has been decided to create a separate brand for capital markets, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, to facilitate access to alternative financing. these proposals will allow for more transparency in financial markets, strengthen the role and power of national supervisors and esma, and allow for more accountability of investment institutions through the introduction of corporate governance principles. finally, i would like to congratulate and follow up the conclusions of my colleague, markus ferber, on this important dossier.
in writing. - markus ferber reports on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the functioning of markets in financial instruments, which aims to repeal directive 2004/39/ec of the european parliament and of the council (recast). the intended recast aims to ensure greater transparency by introducing some additional changes to address the shortcomings revealed by the current financial crisis. whereas, according to the opinion of the consultative working party of the legal services of the ep, the council and the commission, adopted by consensus, the proposal 'does not contain substantive amendments other than those identified as such in the proposal and, as regards the codification of the unchanged provisions of the previous acts with those amendments, the proposal is limited to the mere codification of existing acts without substantive amendments', i am voting in favour, aware that the implementation of this directive will result in a significant improvement in the functioning of markets for financial instruments, in particular by increasing transparency, enhancing confidence and better protecting investors;
in writing. - with this proposal for a directive, the european parliament is backing yet another escape from the political forces that are committed to the system, by refusing to address the essential question: the existence of these markets and their instruments. because, contrary to what this report would have us believe, it is not just the current functioning of the markets that generates instability, financial and economic crises. the problem is that it exists, and it does not meet any objective need for the healthy functioning of economies or for the satisfaction of human needs and aspirations - which is what the economy should naturally aim for. as we have said in relation to the regulation adopted together with this directive, the financialisation of the economy and the holding of production as a hostage to it remains untouchable; the financialisation of the economy with the development of processes without translation or correspondence in production with all the risks that follow.
in writing. − the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid) has been in force since 2007, but since then the emergence of new products and the financial crisis in 2008 have highlighted gaps in the functioning and transparency of these markets, leading to the need for a review of the legislation. in this regard, the new legislation aims to increase the transparency and supervision of unregulated markets, otfs and mtfs, such as the regulation of high frequency trading, the introduction of limits on the trading of derivatives that are now carried out on regulated platforms, as well as the revision of investor protection measures, the consolidation of information and provisions on existing products. while much remains to be done in financial regulation, this proposal allows for greater regulation of new trading platforms and financial products, which was almost non-existent until now. i voted yes.
in writing. − in recent years, the number of investors present on financial markets has increased, offering them an increasingly wide and complex range of services and instruments. in view of these developments, the legal framework of the european union should cover the full range of investor-oriented activities. to that end, it is essential to provide for the degree of harmonisation necessary to provide investors with a high level of protection and to allow investment firms to provide services throughout the european union within the framework of a single market on the basis of home country supervision. the financial crisis has revealed shortcomings in the functioning and transparency of financial markets. developments in financial markets have highlighted the need to strengthen the regulatory framework for markets in financial instruments, including situations where trading in those markets is conducted over-the-counter, in order to increase transparency, better protect investors, enhance confidence, address unregulated areas and ensure that supervisors are given appropriate powers to perform their tasks. that is the aim of this regulation, and that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this directive aims to regulate the provision of investment services in financial markets by banks and investment firms or others regularly engaged in investment activities on a professional basis. this directive will bring numerous benefits by creating more structured and robust markets, better managing the framework for technological innovation in the functioning of capital markets, increasing transparency and facilitating the supervision of these markets. all these measures will make it possible to better protect investors in the market. in this respect, and considering that the adoption of this legislation is a fundamental step in the regulation of the eu's financial markets in order to correct its shortcomings and improve the transparency and regulation of financial markets, i vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − on 20 october 2011, the european commission presented a proposal for a directive on markets in financial instruments with the aim of repealing directive 2004/39/ec which has been in force since november 2007. with the aim of enhancing the integration, competitiveness and efficiency of eu financial markets, the current directive has resulted in increased competition between trading venues for financial instruments and a wider choice for investors in terms of service providers and available financial instruments. i agree with this recast of the directive in question because some problems have been identified that stem from increased competition on a global scale and new challenges have been posed to markets in financial instruments such as trading platforms, investment vehicles or the allocation of broadcasting rights. i believe that the new directive will contribute to a safer, more robust, more transparent and more accountable financial system for the benefit of the economy and society as a whole.
in writing. the proposal, which the majority of the ep supports, is yet another evasion by political forces committed to the system, refusing to address the essential issue of this matter: the existence of these markets and their instruments. because, contrary to what this report would have us believe, it is not just the functioning of the markets that generates instability, financial and economic crises. the greatest threat comes from their existence, which is not an objective necessity for the functioning of economies and for the satisfaction of human needs and aspirations. the financialization of the economy and the holding of productive activity hostage to it remain untouched. financialization of the economy by developing processes without translation or correspondence into productive activity is a central part of the eu's development strategy, always in pursuit of satisfying the profit rates of the large economic and financial groups that the production of real goods and services could not, nor can, satisfy. this is the strategy of this instrument, which is inseparable from the existence of tax havens, the increasing contraction of public spending and investment, the privatisation and liberalisation of public services and of undertakings essential for economic and social development.
in writing. − i approve of this report, considering that the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid), in force since november 2007, is one of the cornerstones of eu financial regulation and i recognise the need for a revision of the current mifid (hereinafter referred to as mifid ii) in order to correct its shortcomings. since then, however, two developments have occurred which have revealed the need for improvements: firstly, financial markets have evolved, for example with the emergence of new products. second, the 2008 financial crisis and the period that followed have highlighted shortcomings in the functioning and transparency of those markets, as well as in the ability of mifid to address them. drawing the necessary lessons, the european commission has proposed that mifid be revised. i hereby approve the proposed new legislation, which consists of two different legal instruments, a directive (mifid) and a regulation on markets in financial instruments (hereinafter referred to as mifir), which should be examined together. i would like to note that i agree with the rapporteur's view that in future discussions more attention should be paid to the impact of the mifir regulation on non-financial corporations.
in writing. − together with the mifid directive, this regulation forms the legal framework governing the requirements applicable to investment firms, regulated markets and data service providers in order to enhance transparency and improve the functioning of the internal market in financial instruments. the application of a regulation ensures that the requirements are directly applicable to investment firms and provides a level playing field for all, avoiding divergent national requirements resulting from the transposition of a directive. the rules will therefore be applied uniformly throughout the european union and to all market players. financial instruments will be able to be traded on regulated markets through multilateral trading facilities (mtfs) and organised trading facilities (otfs), also bringing more transparency to the market. ensuring a more efficient and assertive functioning of the high-frequency markets will also be an advantage of this new legislation. in view of the advances and improvements in the market brought about by this legislation, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − following the profound changes in financial instruments markets in recent years and in response to the declaration by leaders at the g20 summit in 2009, the european commission has put forward a set of proposals to strengthen the rules applied to these markets. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work. the regulation of organised trading systems (otfs), which are playing an increasingly active role on these markets, is being introduced, and a decision has been taken to create a specific brand for capital markets specifically designed for small and medium-sized enterprises, thus facilitating access to alternative financing for these enterprises. these proposals will allow for more transparency in financial markets, strengthen the role and power of national supervisors and esma, and allow for more accountability of investment institutions through the introduction of corporate governance principles. finally, i would like to congratulate and follow up the conclusions of my colleague, markus ferber, on this important dossier.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mr ferber, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on markets in financial instruments, amending the emir regulation on otc derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories. today, after much has been said and written about what actually caused the current economic and financial crisis, the conclusions are unanimous: financial speculation! to prevent this from happening again, it is urgently necessary to adopt measures and implement rules that promote the security and transparency of financial transactions and provide guarantees to investors. no one doubts the need for financial markets, but they must be safe and transparent. this requires filling all existing gaps. i therefore welcome the safeguard clause which will protect citizens. for many years, financial markets have served you and your institutions rather than the real economy. i voted in favour of this proposal because it reorients the financial markets towards the real economy, supports small and mediumsized enterprises, gives credibility to the financial sector and ensures greater protection of the rights of consumers and investors.
in writing. - this proposal, which is supported by a majority in the european parliament, is part of a wider set of proposals which have emerged in the context of one of the most serious outbreaks of the systemic crisis of capitalism, following the old principle that 'something has to change for everything to stay the same'. in essence, the products and mechanisms that enable financial speculation remain. the commission's proposal is to be adopted by the council and the council, and the council is to be consulted on the proposal. it does not touch on the substance of the matter, as would be required if the intention were in fact to stop and impose limits on financial speculation. despite some apparently correct measures, the conditions of stability for financial operators and the continuation of the whole cycle of drainage of surplus value from the productive sectors to financial capital are essentially ensured. the harmonization and reduction of costs in the circulation of various financial products creates the illusion of greater regulation and supervision which is, in fact, apparent. for example, there is no reference to tax havens, banking secrecy or countries with tax regimes that are 'friendly' to big business - either in this or in other legislative proposals.
in writing. the new regulation on markets in financial instruments is intended to take a further step towards greater regulation and supervision of markets. the main objective of this proposal is to establish uniform requirements in all member states for the public disclosure of trading data and the reporting of transactions; the commission will also be able to use the new rules to ensure that the rules on the trading of derivatives are applied in a transparent manner. this regulation provides for the introduction of position limits or alternative arrangements in relation to derivative financial instruments associated with commodities (e.g. food and energy goods), which could facilitate price formation and the efficient hedging of price risks to which producers and consumers are exposed and thus prevent and correct asset bubbles and other distortions. although much remains to be done in financial regulation, this proposal allows a large number of products which until now were traded on unregulated markets to be subject to stricter rules. i abstained.
in writing. − the recent financial crisis has highlighted shortcomings in financial market transparency that can have a detrimental socioeconomic impact. enhanced transparency is therefore one of the shared principles for strengthening the financial system, as confirmed by the leaders' declaration at the g20 summit in london on 2 april 2009. in order to enhance transparency and improve the functioning of the internal market in financial instruments, a new framework should be established laying down uniform transparency requirements for transactions in financial instruments on the markets. this framework should lay down global rules for a wide range of financial products. it should complement the transparency requirements for orders and transactions in shares laid down in directive 2004/39/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 21 april 2004 on markets in financial instruments. we have to continue to legislate so that in the future we do not face the same sins that led to the financial crisis, that led to the great economic crisis that we face.
in writing. − together with the mifid directive, this regulation forms the legal framework governing the requirements applicable to investment firms, regulated markets and data service providers in order to enhance transparency and improve the functioning of the internal market in financial instruments. the application of a regulation ensures that the requirements are directly applicable to investment firms and provides a level playing field for all, avoiding divergent national requirements resulting from the transposition of a directive. the rules will therefore be applied uniformly throughout the union and to all market players. in view of the apparent benefits that this legislation can bring to the market, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the recent economic and financial crisis has highlighted a number of shortcomings in the transparency of financial markets that can have a detrimental socioeconomic impact on member states and the general public. i support this report which establishes more transparent and effective criteria in european markets, creating equivalent conditions between the various trading venues or organisations. in addition, negotiations must be conducted with the utmost transparency and in organised systems. i also believe that it is beneficial to deepen trading conditions in order to ensure the orderly functioning and integrity of financial markets, investor protection and financial stability.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. the financialization of the economy and the holding of productive activity hostage to it remain untouched. this proposal is limited to a set of recommendations for legal harmonization, the main concern of which is to lubricate the financial markets, without touching on the substantive issues that such a matter would require if the system and its advocates were to impose limits. despite some seemingly correct measures proposed in the document, the essence of what is defined therein is aimed at ensuring the conditions of stability for financial operators and the continuation of the whole cycle of drainage of surplus value from the productive sectors to financial capital: expropriating powers to the states, harmonizing and reducing costs in the circulation of the various financial products, creating the illusion of greater regulation and supervision than is in fact apparent. an example of this appearance is the complete absence of any reference to tax havens, banking secrecy, or countries with "friendly" tax regimes for big capital.
in writing. − in the past, eu institutions have only looked at the economic policies of countries retrospectively. with the entry into force of the european semester, member states and the european commission jointly pre-analyze and assess member states' structural reforms, growth-enhancing measures and budgetary surveillance. the european semester provides the appropriate framework to ensure effective economic governance of the euro area by the member states as they are bound by a common responsibility, which includes multilateral surveillance of fiscal and macroeconomic policies and the implementation of the european strategy for growth and jobs as set out in the eu 2020 strategy. the european parliament called on the commission to give the process greater democratic legitimacy by involving national parliaments, the social partners and civil society. it also called for better reflection in this process of country-specific recommendations, such as policies to address youth unemployment and poverty reduction. i support this regulation with my vote, which is intended to further strengthen one of the pillars of european economic governance and to contribute to building a path to prosperity and greater coordination in the eu.
in writing. − for the eu to move more firmly on the path to success and prosperity, it is essential to improve coordination between member states towards a more integrated budgetary, economic and fiscal policy. this policy coordination should have a positive impact on job creation and will certainly avoid divergent or contradictory decisions on the same subject. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european semester is one of the cornerstones of the economic governance package (six-pack), with the primary objective of coordinating the macroeconomic and budgetary policies of the member states. this mechanism was fully implemented for the first time this year and it is therefore necessary to draw all the necessary conclusions to improve the only mechanism which, up to now, makes possible the ex ante coordination of the macroeconomic policies needed in the context of the euro area, both through the exchange of draft budgets and through the prior debate of all the main economic policy reform programmes, thus allowing a reduction and/or elimination of any negative side effects. finally, i would like to congratulate my colleague, jean-paul gauzès, on his work, and i believe that this mechanism has a key role to play in guiding the union in the next steps towards the achievement of a genuine economic and monetary union.
in writing. - this report, by mr jean-paul gauzès, focuses on the european semester for economic policy coordination, in particular as regards the fulfilment of the priorities set for 2012. the european semester is an exceptional tool for coordinating and articulating economic goals between the member states (ms) and the european union (eu) in a spirit of cooperation that does not compromise national sovereignty. the european parliament does not want to interfere in national parliaments. missions are different. i hope that the commission will follow the recommendations of this report and align its position with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, on which all our efforts must be focused, so that the 'european semester' is not a mere monitoring mechanism but an effective collaboration between the ep and the national parliaments in the search for a balance between revenue and expenditure. i voted in favour of this report on the evaluation of european economic governance and i call on the member states to comply with the rules of the stability and growth pact.
in writing. - the report adopted extols the european semester, denoting the nature of the political forces which are in the majority in this parliament. a process that aims no further than to coordinate the attack on the rights and living conditions of workers and peoples throughout the eu. the report 'recognises the importance the commission attaches to labour market reforms to enhance the competitiveness of the euro area' and 'considers that wage increases should be in line with productivity'. what is important here is the total connivance of the social democrats - the so-called 'socialists' and the so-called 'greens' - with this path of civilizational regression and with this dangerous attack on democracy. the amendments are revealing in that, in seeking to give a "social" brushstroke to the deeply reactionary edifice of the "european semester", they legitimize not only the process that led to it as its profoundly anti-democratic content, because they disregard the will of the peoples and their participation and because they empty of competence, behind their backs, the power structures that are close to them and that (better) control, in particular the national parliaments, in an intolerable attack on the sovereignty of each country and its people.
in writing. - the economic, social, financial and sovereign debt crises are not yet over. the current economic situation demonstrates that stronger coordination between the macroeconomic and budgetary policies of the member states is necessary to ensure a more integrated and balanced economic union. the european semester thus provides the appropriate framework to ensure effective economic governance of the euro area by the member states as they are bound by a common responsibility, which includes multilateral surveillance of fiscal and macroeconomic policies and the implementation of the european strategy for growth and jobs as set out in the eu 2020 strategy. we must therefore seize this moment to join together in a common effort to bring the eu out of this crisis which is already too long and too painful.
in writing. − the european semester provides the appropriate framework to ensure effective economic governance of the euro area by the member states as they are bound by a common responsibility, which includes multilateral surveillance of fiscal and macroeconomic policies and the implementation of the european strategy for growth and jobs as set out in the eu 2020 strategy. the european parliament called on the commission to give the process greater democratic legitimacy by involving national parliaments, the social partners and civil society. these are all reasons enough to vote in favour of this report.
in writing. − the current economic situation has shown that stronger coordination between member states' macroeconomic and budgetary policies is needed to ensure a more integrated and balanced economic union. the economic, social, financial and sovereign debt crises have not yet been overcome, and the council's country-specific recommendations for each euro area country have not yet reached their full potential. the european semester allows for the necessary ex ante coordination in the context of the euro area, both through the exchange of draft budgets and the prior debate on all the main economic policy reform programmes, so i voted in favour of the document on its priorities for 2012.
in writing. − this report strongly welcomes the european semester process, endorsing all the european commission's recessive and socially unfair policies, stating, for example, that it 'recognises the importance given by the commission to labour market reforms in order to strengthen the competitiveness of the euro area' or that it 'considers that wage increases should be in line with productivity'. what we are talking about here are the recommendations made in the framework of the european semester which impose the reduction of public investment, privatisation, and in several countries, such as portugal, the reduction of the wage level, as a 'coordinated' strategy for the supervision of macroeconomic policies. in other words, we are talking about imposing policies which advocate more recession, more unemployment and more poverty, policies to which the majority of this parliament, by adopting this report, necessarily commits itself. it is also committed to the attack on the sovereignty of the peoples carried out by imposing that the elected organs of sovereignty are prevented from deciding on the destinies of their country.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that russia concluded its wto accession negotiations after 18 years of negotiations on 10 november 2011 and was officially accepted as a member on 16 december 2011. the eu is a strategic trading partner of russia, ranking it as its first source of imports and its main export destination and a key investment partner. the european parliament also called on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's trade policy is consistent with the wto rules and to ensure that the eu's trade policy is consistent with the wto rules. i also stress the possibility of concluding a new partnership and cooperation as another opportunity to contribute to a strengthened partnership between both sides. the text must, however, warn against restrictive measures.
in writing. - the interdependence between russia and the european union is also becoming more evident in trade matters. this can be beneficial to both parties and a way of boosting their respective economies. russia has had a not-so-uniform record with regard to free trade. with its accession to the wto, i hope that its approach will become more consistent and inspire confidence in its european counterpart, so that it will be more willing to invest in the russian market and be free from unjustified restrictions. a new partnership and cooperation agreement could be a further step towards unlocking their trading capacities and promoting greater integration between economies. from a strategic point of view, considering the advent of new economic powers, both the union and russia have much to gain from this partnership.
in writing. - the present mou, submitted following a declaration by the commission pursuant to rule 110 (2) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament (pe), concerns trade relations between the eu and the russian federation following its accession to the world trade organisation (wto) on 16 december 2011. the russian federation is an important partner for the eu with which cooperation and partnership agreements have been established. its accession to the wto opens the door to foreign companies, which can invest in the country. this opening, albeit gradual, will allow foreign service providers to enter sectors such as construction, information technology, professional services, telecommunications, transport, postal services, media, distribution, tourism and travel services and financial services. the eu is interested in deepening bilateral relations with russia, so i am voting in favour of this motion for a resolution and urge the russian authorities to make efforts to move closer to eu values and to work on resolving the outstanding issues such as the abolition of the entry visa, the elimination of the increase in customs duties and other obstacles that hinder trade transactions between the eu and russia.
in writing. − after 18 years of negotiations, russia was officially accepted as a wto member in december 2011. the eu and russia have a relationship of interdependent trading partners, notably in raw materials and energy sources. the european parliament, through this resolution, intends to put pressure on russia to comply fully with wto rules. this means the removal of all protectionist barriers which hinder trade with the eu. the commission has already taken a number of measures to improve the situation in the baltic sea region. parliament also called for greater ease in the movement of capital between the two parties. nothing new, then. the neoliberal book in all its glory. the eu's big capital portfolio, which wants to see the import costs of products that are in many cases crucial to industry in many eu countries reduced. russia, like any other country, has the right to exercise sovereignty over its natural resources and to impose export duties that it deems most appropriate to its interests, regardless of the provisions of the wto.
in writing. − we are pleased to note that the russian federation concluded its multilateral negotiations for wto accession on 10 november 2011, after 18 years of negotiations, and was officially accepted as a member on 16 december 2011. the eu is a strategic trading partner of russia, being its first and growing source of imports and the main destination of exports, as well as a major investment partner (in terms of foreign direct investment in the country), accounting for a total of 47.1% of russia's global trade. i am pleased to see that this relationship continues to expand, as russia has also become the second source of eu imports (eur 158.6 billion) and the fourth export destination (eur 86.1 billion) (2010 figures). i therefore hope that this accession will lead to an even greater increase in the eu's multilateral relations with russia, which will be satisfactory to both sides.
in writing. - the eu is a strategic trading partner of russia and russia is already the second largest source of eu imports. these facts call for greater dialogue and coordination, and i have therefore voted in favour of this resolution, which sets out the european parliament's views and concerns on the matter.
in writing. − the russian federation concluded its multilateral negotiations for wto accession on 10 november 2011, after 18 years of negotiations, and was officially accepted as a member of this international organisation on 16 december 2011. the european parliament notes with concern that, however, in the period before the completion of its wto accession, russia has not fully met its future wto obligations in several respects, and takes the opportunity to call on russia to eliminate the unjustified temporary bans, temporary unilateral tariff increases and protectionist measures and barriers to open and fair trade identified in the g20 biennial report on trade and investment measures and in the commission's reports on trade and investment barriers. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the european parliament, through this resolution, intends to put pressure on russia to comply fully with wto rules. this means the removal of all "protectionist barriers that hinder trade" with the eu. including the creation by russia of an energy market, the liberalisation of public procurement and the privatisation of the service sector. parliament also called for greater ease in the movement of capital between the two parties. objective: eu big business wants to see import costs of products that are in many cases crucial to industry in many eu countries reduced. in our view, any country has the right to exercise sovereignty over its natural resources and to impose the export duties it deems most appropriate to its interests, irrespective of the provisions of the wto.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by regretting that the parliamentary elections held in belarus on 23 september once again failed to meet international standards for free and fair elections. the reports of irregularities seriously call into question the validity of the election result and the legitimacy of the elected parliamentarians. i strongly condemn the deterioration of the situation of human rights and fundamental freedoms, combined with the lack of deep economic and democratic reforms in belarus. the immediate and unconditional release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners should also be demanded. the eu should continue to support all initiatives aimed at the development of democratic civil society in belarus, as this could result in an increase in belarusians' freer 'political participation' and a growing awareness of the need for change.
in writing. − the european union has shown its willingness to renew its relations with belarus, in the context of the european neighbourhood policy, provided that the belarusian government begins to respect the democratic values and fundamental rights of the belarusian people. these conditions were not respected in the last parliamentary elections. in view of the fact that none of the opposition candidates has been elected to parliament, of the fact that several violations of the electoral code of belarus have been observed and of the fact that the elected parliament in belarus has no democratic legitimacy, the european parliament will continue its policy of non-recognition, both in its bilateral relations with belarus and in the euronest parliamentary assembly. we condemn the detention of journalists in the course of their work, which is a clear attack on freedom of expression. we condemn the persecution of opposition members; we demand the unconditional release of all political prisoners; we call on the belarusian government to hold new elections in a truly democratic manner, in accordance with international rules. i therefore support this resolution in the hope that the belarusian government will respect human rights and will integrate into the european family in freedom and democracy.
in writing. - belarus continues to have one of the worst rates of respect for democracy and human rights on the european continent. the elections held there give no guarantee of fairness, freedom and reliability. the list of abuses of the electoral process is very revealing in this respect. it was another missed opportunity for the country. i am concerned about the detention of journalists, the number of political prisoners and the intransigence in maintaining the death penalty. nothing has changed recently in the country that would warrant any significant change anytime soon. i would like to see this situation reversed and belarus take its rightful place among the free and democratic nations.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) and (4) of parliament's rules of procedure, replacing the proposals from the ppe, s&d, alde, greens/efa, ecr and gue/ngl groups, deals with the situation in belarus following the parliamentary elections held on 23 september. after the elections were held, several voices were heard denouncing the fraudulent conduct of the elections, including the president of the european parliament (ep) martin schulz, the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy catherine ashton, the secretary-general of the council of europe thorbjørn jagland, and others. in reality, there were several instances of violations verified by independent international observers and there was a lack of transparency in the vote counting, which allows us to say that the election results do not express the will of the russian people. i voted in favour of this joint motion for a resolution because i believe that the international community should draw belarus' attention to its obligation to respect democratic values such as the rule of law and human rights by abolishing the death penalty now.
in writing. the resolution calls for the eu to take a more active role in the international community, including the united nations, and calls for the eu to play a more active role in the international community. despite the differences we have with the authorities in minsk, we cannot support the majority in parliament. we recognise the sovereignty of the belarusian people in choosing the political power that governs the country and its economic, social and cultural options. we do not support direct interference in their internal affairs, in violation of one of the basic principles of international law. interference by political and financial support to the opposition and 'independent' media, belarusian civil society and ngos, or through increased 'cooperation' with 'its eastern neighbours'. in the name of the fundamental principle of defending the independence and sovereignty of peoples, and because it is up to each people to define the political, economic and social system which best meets their interests and aspirations, we did not support this resolution.
in writing. - once again the elections in belarus were marred by a number of irregularities. the fact that none of the candidates of the democratic opposition has been elected to the national parliament, that there are still numerous political prisoners, and that the belarusian authorities have ignored the repeated appeals of the international community and have decided to retreat from the path of democracy and subject the country to further isolation, is reprehensible at all levels. that is why i am voting in favour of this resolution, which points out the major shortcomings of a belarus which claims to be democratic.
in writing. - the elections held in belarus on 23 september were not in keeping with democratic principles. the organization for security and cooperation in europe (osce) acknowledged the day before the elections that they would not be held in a free and democratic manner. it is also totally reprehensible that political persecution of opposition members continues, whether through imprisonment or by refusing to register them to run for political office. the regime of president lukashenko further demonstrates its inability to address human rights and fundamental freedoms by preventing the development of a politically participatory civil society and by constantly censoring the media. the eu should do everything in its power to mitigate the lukashenko regime by actively supporting projects aimed at developing a participatory civil society, respect for human rights and democratic values.
in writing. - once again the eu majority is looking for new arguments to continue its fight against the sovereignty of belarus and the choices of its people. this text repeats the whole eu manual of intervention, contending with russia, the usa and nato for influence over belarus, a country which, despite all the pressures, has maintained an independent and sovereign path. despite the differences that clearly separate us from the government in minsk, we do not support the majority in the ep which not only does not recognise the sovereignty of the belarusian people in choosing the political power that governs the country and their economic, social and cultural choices, but also supports direct interference in their internal affairs, in violation of one of the basic principles of international law. interference by political and financial support to the opposition and the 'independent' media, to belarusian civil society and ngos, or through greater 'cooperation' with 'its eastern neighbours'. we have as our fundamental principle the defence of the independence and sovereignty of peoples; it is up to each people to define the political, economic and social system which best meets their interests and aspirations.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the october elections marked an important step in consolidating democratic elections in line with the osce and the council of europe, although some fundamental issues remain to be tackled. saakashvili of georgia admitted defeat in parliamentary elections and declared himself an opposition politician. the statements of the party leaders were quite positive in their commitment to work together in the construction of the country. these elections were competitive with active citizen participation, including strong participation of women, throughout the campaign. freedom of association, assembly and expression were respected and the media carried out their work freely. the electoral administration had a high level of trust and managed to prepare the elections in a very professional manner. the central electoral commission acted efficiently and transparently and promoted several welcome initiatives to defend the participation of national minorities in these elections. the active participation of a large number of national observer organisations and civil society in the entire electoral process also enhanced its overall transparency.
in writing. − despite being an ancient nation, georgia was part of the russian empire until 1918, and was reabsorbed by the soviet union in the 1920s. after gaining independence from the ussr in 1991, it experienced much instability. the current georgian regime, founded by president saakashvili, has expressed its desire to join the eu and has been seeking to position itself in a pro-western manner. however, it has not escaped criticism from institutions such as freedom house, which considers the country only "partly free". separatism is the knot in their dispute with russia. the issue remains unresolved and tension remains as well as mutual accusations of human rights violations. the alternation of power in countries with democratic institutions and processes still in the process of consolidation always presents risks and unknowns which only the civic maturity of the people and, in particular, of party leaders can avoid and clarify. despite the difficulties and some repairs, the georgians have lived up to international electoral standards and the path of democracy and freedom they want to follow. president saakashvili has given an important testimony to this by his own dignified and prompt admission of defeat.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) and (4) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament (ep), replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the ppe, s&d, alde, greens/efa and ecr groups, concerns the situation in georgia following the parliamentary elections held on 1 october. the international community considered that these elections were fair and free and that the freedoms of association, assembly and expression were respected. in fact, georgia has adhered to common values and principles such as democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights. as one of the founding countries of the eastern partnership and an important partner of the eu, i would like to congratulate the georgian people on the progress made towards consolidating democracy and embodied in the last electoral act. the european union is also committed to the implementation of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which is a fundamental part of the un charter. i voted in favour of this report and i hope that the new government and the new majority will continue and strengthen cooperation with the eu.
in writing. - this resolution notes the outcome of the elections in georgia, which it considers to be a step towards asserting the eu's interests in the country and the region. georgia is having a rough time. the neoliberal measures have destroyed the social guarantees and rights of workers; the privatization of all spheres of the economy, including strategic sectors - electricity supply systems, natural resources like water and gas and social services, ports - has led to its concentration in the hands of a few wealthy oligarchs, who also control all the media. the intention of the majority of this parliament is now to whitewash what is happening in this country - a situation to which the eu, nato, the usa and the organizations of big capital (imf, wto, etc.) have greatly contributed. moreover, they want to move towards a 'free trade agreement' and georgia's rapprochement with nato. we obviously cannot support this resolution. the action of internal and external actors in this country and in the (tense) caucasus region maintains a situation of great instability that can generate new foci of conflict.
in writing. - georgia has rightly chosen to adhere to common values and principles such as democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, which are indispensable to advancing the process of european integration and to the successful conclusion of the negotiations and subsequent implementation of the association agreement. internal political stability in georgia and an emphasis on internal reforms are indispensable for the future development of eu-georgia relations. so, in view of the progress georgia has made, i agree that one of the eu's main objectives in foreign policy is to strengthen and promote relations with georgia.
in writing. − the last elections in georgia, held on 1 october 2012, were a historic milestone, as for the first time they were held in a completely fair and free environment. the organization for security and cooperation in europe regarded them as a step towards consolidating democracy in georgia. the election results favour the opportunity for georgia to cooperate even more with the european union and nato. however, there will need to be understanding and respect between the parties in georgia, especially on the part of the defeated opposition. there is still a long way to go in consolidating democratic values in this caucasian country and the european union must continue to support the reforms that are still to be completed in georgia. in view of the above, i congratulate georgia and vote in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by the rapporteur members.
in writing. - this resolution, which 'celebrates' the outcome of the elections in georgia and the step taken towards holding elections, contains a set of facts about a country which should embarrass those who made and/or supported it. it hides: - the neoliberal measures which have destroyed the social guarantees and rights of workers; - the privatisation of all sectors of the economy. the majority of meps are interested in whitewashing what is happening in this country (a situation to which the eu, nato, the us and the big capital organisations (imf, wto, etc.) have contributed a great deal), supporting the conclusion of a 'free trade agreement' and georgia's rapprochement with nato. the majority of meps are willing to do anything to dominate the country geostrategically, seizing important resources from the whole region and the guarantees of energy supply on which the eu depends. the action of internal and external actors in this country and in the caucasus region - a region fraught with tensions - maintains a situation of great instability which may generate new foci of conflict.
on behalf of the s&d group, mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr jan mulder, on his demanding guidance, perseverance and the interaction he has maintained throughout the process with all the shadow rapporteurs. this regulation on the marketing and use of explosives precursors represents a step forward in the safety of europeans, because it limits and seeks to control access to dangerous substances used for the domestic manufacture of explosives. unfortunately, examples of terrorist attacks with these homemade bombs are on the rise in europe. it is therefore incredible that the council, that is to say our member states, took so long to reach a conciliatory position with the european parliament to adopt this regulation on the basis of the proposal, even though it came from the commission. after the breivik attack in norway last year, using precisely a homemade bomb, one would think that the council would take the safety of citizens more seriously. instead, bureaucratic chapels and corporate interests prevailed. interestingly, germany is the only country to be exempted, albeit temporarily, from a tight licensing system for the purchase of these chemicals that could be used in the manufacture of homemade bombs on the grounds that its registration system works very well. the message from parliament is clear: the safety of citizens must be given priority. terrorists exploit our vulnerabilities and it is therefore urgent that this regulation should enter into force quickly, that member states should transpose it into national law and that they should adapt their control and security systems to the new european standards governing access to explosive precursors. legitimate and justified access to these chemicals is guaranteed by this regulation, but the aim here is not to protect the right to market and buy dangerous substances. the ultimate objective of this regulation is to raise the security standard in the accessibility and use of explosive precursors for criminal purposes by ensuring their traceability and ensuring that tragedies such as norway in 2011 or london in 2005 are not repeated.
mr president, there is a massacre in gaza at the moment. in just six days, israel violated the ceasefire agreement, bombed 80 targets, launched more than 1,200 airstrikes. an israeli missile hit a house in a residential neighborhood and killed 11 civilians, including four children and an 81-year-old woman. an israeli missile surgeon hit the headquarters of a palestinian newspaper, injuring ten journalists, in order to prevent the reporting of the massacre. yesterday, an israeli missile hit the home of the al-dalu family, exterminating in one fell swoop nine palestinians belonging to four generations. in just six days, 81 were killed and 535 injured, 520 of them civilians. they say it's a clever defensive war. war is never surgical, much less intelligent. the question is: what will this europe, which has just received the nobel peace prize, do to put an end to this barbarity?
i am not saying that the european union should be a single currency, but that it should be a single currency. they also showed us that we had a european institutional architecture full of holes, in particular the institutional architecture of the euro. and that is why the report that is being presented here, and the proposal that is being presented, is so many holes above in terms of ambition compared to what the proposals put forward by governments are. but also, as the rapporteur has said, we are in a field of political choices, and that is why i would like to clarify the reasons why we have some problems and why we cannot support this report. the first concerns questions relating to cross compliance. what we see and continue to see is a narrative in which there can only be solidarity between the different countries when everything is fulfilled in terms of the stability and growth plan, in terms of the intergovernmental agreement, the euro plus pact and a set of measures that impose nothing but massive doses of austerity in the peripheries and also a set of recessionary measures that, as we have seen, are not working. a second reason has to do with the banking union. the rapporteur, and very well, presents the mechanism of banking supervision, but it is so necessary that we cannot escape the essential, and the essential here is escaping, as we continue to add up a cluster of national systems, which means that we are all together in banking policy, we are all together in banking supervision, but we are all separated when something goes wrong and therefore the taxpayers will continue to pay. and a third point has to do with the question of the common debt and the issue of eurobonds. here again, the possibility of issuing common debt is being considered, but only when it is too late. the reason why we need the common debt is now, not just when they have corrected the deficits and the excessive debts, because with these policies that we are pursuing they will never be corrected, on the contrary, they will be increasingly aggravated, to the despair of a whole set of populations. so i want to conclude, mr president, by saying that despite all the efforts, i think we have here a very clear example that together we could still rise, but divided we will surely fall, and that is why it was important to have gone even further.
mr president, europe and the eurozone have lost sight of their future. this report seeks to find it again, and i welcome it in those terms. but to do that, parliament's position on the report drawn up by marianne thyssen must be taken into account in the final text in december. i would like to emphasize the following very briefly on its main pillars. the banking union is now a fundamental issue and this parliament is working seriously on it. the budgetary union cannot exist without a serious fight against fraud and tax evasion, but it cannot exist without the brutal effort to discipline public finances in conjunction with a coordinated management of the 20 or 30 year debt of the member states, which will stabilise its price and allow the economy to recover. that is parliament's proposal when it discusses the two pack. the third pillar, economic union, is empty today and europe needs two elements. first, a growth boost; then, a clear definition of how to rebuild productive capacity within europe, which implies a review of external trade policy in an era of globalisation and of its internal industrial policy. fourth pillar: increasing democratic legitimacy means that in the short term it will be possible to hold the troika to account, particularly before this parliament. the last pillar, which we would like to add and which we want to be added, is that we cannot talk about the future of europe without giving due weight to a pillar of social and fundamental rights, which european citizens do not have at the moment. (the speaker accepts the answer to a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. there is always room for improvement, but portugal has been a key beneficiary of the support of the european union in recent years. portugal has changed from a country whose competitiveness was based on cheap labour to a country with a highly skilled, highly sophisticated labour force. but when a country exports, it must be able to decide where to go. and that is why it is important that some countries which have surpluses open their doors to the re-qualified exports of countries which started from a profile of specialisation which was absolutely unsustainable. a final note, to say that it is not possible that emigration is the solution, that the re-skilled labour force and where european union support has been used is now lost through a massive export of the most skilled to countries that have room to receive them. this is dramatic and completely unfeasible for our future.
mr president, i would like to begin by congratulating mrs thyssen on her excellent report. it is that once again parliament is taking a leading position, a free position, taking on something very simple: the solution of the problems of people who are suffering in the streets today, who have wage problems, who have unemployment problems, depends very much on the european option. and parliament is the body that can best say it and explain it to the citizens. it is parliament which has the capacity to explain that we cannot continue with a short-term vision that has advances and setbacks. we have not had an integrated position on the various subjects. we are in favour of budgetary union, but we are taking it slowly. we are in favour of banking union, but the vision is not complete. and it is precisely the link between the short-term and the long-term vision that is needed in this report that we are discussing here. and for her the parliament moves forward. i hope the other institutions will do the same, because in all honesty, what europe does not lack are reports. they're papers, but they don't have any substance. the implementation of this requires the explanation of something very simple: the internal market needs a functioning currency. for the currency to work, we will have to move towards a greater political union, a greater fiscal union, a banking union that actually works. only then will we be able to have a strategy which is a single strategy for the investment that europe so badly needs. only then will our citizens have the possibility of solving the problems they are increasingly asking for. and parliament is aware of that. let us hope that the other institutions will do the same.
mr president, the crisis is inseparable from the deepening of economic and monetary union and the single market, which has had profound consequences in destroying the productive apparatus of the countries with the weakest economies, in accentuating and creating production deficits, which have generated budget deficits, and in increasing public debts. in other words, contrary to the propaganda around the euro and the economic and monetary union, these instruments have not only proved to be a shield against the crisis, as they said, and a weapon to confront capitalist globalization, but have revealed with great clarity their true purpose - their instrumental character to face the growing world competition between capitalist monopolies. the destruction of the sovereignty and independence of countries has proved to be inseparable from the process of fusion of economic and political power, which has accentuated the differences and the deepening of uneven development that particularly affects countries with peripheral economies. the report seeks to centralize these powers even further, and it also argues that the european supervisor should be able to put an end to financial institutions, that is, to manage the process of monopolizing financial capital as he sees fit. we need a monetary instrument for economic growth and employment, for the benefit of workers.
emu is a project of european big business, aiming at the reduction of unit labour costs (the real objective behind price stability), a greater liberalisation of capital movements and, consequently, a greater mobility of multinational capital in search of better conditions for the exploitation of labour and domination of markets within the european area. the consequences are obvious: deterioration of living and working conditions; a decrease in the weight of wages in national income; the destruction of production systems and marked deindustrialization in the peripheral countries, as they become consumers of the surplus production of the central countries. emu is inseparable from the increase in macroeconomic imbalances between the different countries of the euro area, inseparable from the indebtedness of net importing states. the path has proved unsustainable, but those who have benefited from it do not want to do without it. so in a real leap forward, they want to delve deeper into the instrument that has served their interests so well. it is typical of the eu: each new step in integration seeks to legitimize the previous one and justify the next one. and what follows is more centralization of political and economic power, new steps in the development of a monopoly capitalism on a european scale, more attacks on the sovereignty of the peoples and on democracy.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the brussels i regulation provides clear rules for access to justice and is of great importance to citizens and businesses. in an increasingly globalised world, where european citizens live and work outside the european union, it is vital to uphold their fundamental right of access to justice and to avoid discrimination on the basis of domicile. i would also like to stress our efforts as s&d group members to introduce proposals for a new rule of jurisdiction for disputes relating to industrial action, individual employment contracts, and disputes relating to the infringement of privacy and the right to personality. these proposals reinforce an essential aspect, because in a globalised world, apart from the simple rights of citizens, there is a need to analyse labour disputes and the socioeconomic consequences for workers, in order to move towards a fairer europe.
in writing. - after two years of intense and complex negotiations, i am pleased that an agreement has finally been reached, which i consider to be generally positive. the brussels i regulation of 2002, which is the foundation of judicial cooperation in civil matters in the eu, is thus revised to determine the most appropriate jurisdiction for the settlement of cross-border disputes and to ensure the easy recognition and enforcement of judgments given in another member state. despite the enormous improvements introduced by this regulation, there are still gaps that need to be addressed in order to facilitate cross-border litigation and the free movement of judicial decisions in the eu, with a view to developing a genuine european area of justice, serving citizens and businesses. there is no doubt that among the 27 member states sharing the single market, the exequatur procedure has become a mere formality, and it makes crossborder litigation more time-consuming and costly. i therefore agree with its abolition, without any exceptions for the sake of legal certainty, although it is essential that the safeguards for the protection of the rights of the defence be maintained. i also believe that the effectiveness of the agreements on the allocation of powers has been substantially improved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the reform of regulation (ec) no 44/2001 is necessary, responding to the recommendations of several experts on this matter. the revision of the regulation should contribute to the removal of the remaining obstacles to the european area of justice which hamper the application of the principle of mutual recognition.
in writing. - i am aware of the enormous importance of council regulation (ec) no 44/2001 in the field of private international law and of the need for an appropriate legal framework to enable the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the recognition and enforcement of decisions outside the issuing member state is essential for the protection of the interests of citizens and businesses and for legal certainty in the internal market.
in writing. the report, drawn up by mr tadeus zwiefka, deals with the proposal for a recast of the european parliament and council regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the right to enforce a judgment is fundamental as a guarantee of the protection of citizens' rights. there is no point in going ahead with the initiation of a judicial procedure, taking into account the financial and time costs, when, after having been informed of the judgment, it is not possible to enforce it. i therefore welcome the adoption of this regulation on the approximation of national judicial systems by the ep after three years of debate and hope that the process will be completed at the next european council in december, which will allow the free movement of judgments and thus help to consolidate the european union (eu). the extension of the right to citizens of third countries is very important as it will increase the efficiency of the courts by simplifying procedures and reducing costs. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution which is intended to reform the judicial systems by making justice quicker and less burdensome.
in writing. - the commission proposal proposes amendments and recasting of the current regulation (no 44/2001), removing certain parts which it considers to be obstacles to the free application of judicial decisions in line with the principle of mutual recognition. in this connection, it proposes - and the rapporteur supports - the abolition of the exequatur procedure, i.e. that a judgment given by a court in one member state should be recognised by another member state without recourse to any other procedure. this is a further step towards the harmonization of legislative procedures which call into question the independence of national courts. we have to be very careful not to let the commission and the council of ministers get involved in this.
in writing. − for the protection of the interests of citizens, businesses and the legal certainty of the internal market, the recognition and enforcement of decisions outside the member state is essential. the adoption of this report is therefore essential for the existence of a legal framework allowing for the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 44/2001 is, with its predecessor the brussels convention, one of the most successful pieces of eu legislation in judicial matters. both documents laid the foundations for a european judicial area, served citizens and businesses well by promoting legal certainty and the predictability of decisions, and are used as a reference and tool by other instruments. the european commission has proposed a revision of the instrument with a view to improving it. the european parliament presented its views and supported some of the measures proposed by the ec. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report, which presents improvements to the legal instrument.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a proposal for a regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters at first reading today. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to ensure that the rights of the child are respected, and calls for the eu to take action to ensure that children are not discriminated against. the parliament's position is also to include consumers as the main beneficiaries of this reform. thus, the consumer, considered to be the weaker party in a dispute, may choose to go to the court of the member state where he is domiciled. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the commission proposal on which this report is based proposes amendments and recasting of the current regulation (no 44/2001) in order to remove certain parts which it considers to be obstacles to the free application of judicial decisions in line with the principle of mutual recognition. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. this new procedure is a further step towards the harmonization of legislative procedures which run counter to independent, national and sovereign judiciaries and in this respect we did not support this report.
in writing. − i approve this report, as the purpose of this regulation is to restrict access by the general public to chemicals of high risk and with the potential to be used for the production of household explosives. i believe that in these times it is increasingly necessary to adopt a preventive attitude to protect european citizens. the crisis and austerity, as well as the international climate and the geostrategic situation in europe, force us to take precautionary measures aimed at the welfare of the general population. we cannot ignore the reality in europe and the world: some fear, frustration and unrest, because instability has taken over the economy and thus the whole of society in much of europe, which is living under extreme austerity measures. in addition, it should be stressed that europe, as an international actor with a foreign policy, must take account of the need to take account of attacks and other acts of terrorism or attacks on the general population on the basis of political and cultural principles, values and ideas. we must therefore safeguard the immunity and well-being of the peoples of europe at all costs.
in writing. the commission's proposal aims to limit the general public's access to specific substances for general use, but which can also be misused as explosives precursors, and thus reduce the frequency and impact of terrorist attacks. professional users of these materials and sales between companies will not be affected. i voted in favour of this report because i support the measures to combat terrorism and i agree with the overall rationale of the proposal.
in writing. - i support the commitment reached at first reading with the council that it should make a significant contribution to reducing the risks of illicit use of certain chemicals which are widely available on the market and within the reach of the general public. in 2006, we adopted the reach regulation for chemicals from a safety perspective, but safety issues related to chemical precursors for explosives were, exceptionally, left out of its scope. we must not forget that homemade explosives, made from certain chemical precursors that are easily accessible to the public, are, according to europol, the preferred instrument for carrying out terrorist attacks. a common european approach is therefore urgently needed to avoid different levels of regulation, which lead to gaps in safety and distort the functioning of the internal market. only in this way will we be able to significantly reduce the risk of misuse of certain chemical precursors for the production of homemade explosives by prohibiting the unauthorised sale to the public of certain chemicals above certain concentration thresholds. this regulation should also be accompanied by a whole range of measures to be taken by manufacturers and retailers to improve safety and raise awareness throughout the supply chain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the application of measures which help to reduce the risks and limit access to a range of highly concentrated chemicals by the general public. it is necessary to control access to certain items, such as precursors of homemade explosives, which are not only dangerous but are also commonly used by terrorists and other criminals in their attacks.
in writing. the proposal we are voting on today is a regulation which limits the general public's access to specific substances which could be misused as explosives precursors. while i tend to favour legislative frameworks which do not restrict individual freedom, i believe that in some circumstances the protection of public security recommends some restrictions on that freedom. this is the case here, where the protection of citizens against terrorism recommends that restrictions be imposed on the marketing and use of products which can be used in the manufacture of explosives.
in writing. - with the spread of new information technologies and the advent of the internet, we are only a click away from a set of data which, manipulated by unscrupulous people, can jeopardise the safety of people and property. we all remember the massacre (85 dead) in norway, more specifically on the island of utøya, of young people attending a labour party summer camp, and the car bombing that killed seven people in the norwegian capital just two hours earlier. the ease with which we access inside information and certain dual-use items is conducive to terrorist activity and it is urgent to restrict such access, as the security of states and citizens is at stake. i voted in favour of the report by mr jan mulder on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the marketing and use of explosives precursors, because measures are needed which are widespread in all member states and which prevent indiscriminate and uncontrolled access to substances which can be used in the manufacture of weapons of home origin. because terrorism and crime are cross-border, i am aware that this will be a major step in order to prevent further terrorist attacks within the european union.
in writing. - there are important steps to be taken in the field of marketing and use of explosives precursors. the commission has taken steps, in particular, to improve safety levels for workers and to protect the environment. this report aims to move in this direction, but not without limitations and contradictions. we welcome the provision of a safeguard clause to allow any member state that so wishes to apply stricter measures in respect of certain substances or mixtures of substances, as well as to decide that it will not allow private individuals to have access to any of the substances in question. once again we criticise the view of the free movement of chemicals and mixtures in the internal market and the need to correct the distortions of competition underlying the report.
in writing. - i am not in favour of legislation which may restrict individual freedom, but in some cases it is necessary. this is the case with this report which limits the general public's access to certain substances that could be misused as explosives precursors. the protection of citizens against the practice of terrorism is at issue here, hence the restrictions approved here on the marketing and use of certain products which may be used in the manufacture of explosives.
in writing. the commission proposal is a regulation which limits the general public's access to specific substances for general use, but which can also be misused as precursors to explosives. in order to protect the free movement of goods, eight substances listed in annex i may continue to be placed on the market in a concentrated form, subject to the holding of a licence issued by a national competent authority for a documented legitimate purpose or, in the absence of a licence, at concentration levels which render them unfit for the manufacture of homemade explosives. in view of the balance of the well-founded proposal, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the aim of this proposal is to restrict the general public's access to high-risk chemicals which could be misused in the production of homemade explosives. the aim is to reduce the frequency and impact of terrorist attacks by limiting access to raw materials and by reporting suspicious transactions involving substances that, in high concentrations, can be used in the manufacture of explosives. the proposal therefore provides for a ban on the sale to the general public of certain chemicals at concentration levels above the established limits. sales of higher concentrations will only be allowed to users who can document a legitimate need to use the chemicals. the report also proposes a set of obligations on the sale of these chemicals and their mixtures, including the notification of suspicious transactions. the annex to the regulation clearly distinguishes between substances and their maximum concentration limits. this is a proposal in line with the community policy objectives set out for the eu counter-terrorism strategy, the eu action plan to improve the safety of explosives, and the stockholm programme an open and secure europe serving and protecting the interests of citizens. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − on 18 april 2008, the council decided to set up a standing committee on precursors to consider the measures to be taken and to prepare some recommendations on the legislation applicable to explosives precursors available on the market, taking into account the cost-benefit effects. the committee identified some explosives precursors that could be used in terrorist attacks and urged the european union to take appropriate action. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary for member states to adopt legislative measures concerning certain substances which are used in unlawful circumstances, thus ensuring protection against the unlawful use of explosives precursors of a similar or higher grade. i also believe that this regulation is fundamental to regulating european standards with regard to placing on the market, possession, use and introduction into the eu. it is positive that these resources are limited to the public and that proper reporting of suspicious transactions is ensured throughout the supply chain.
in writing. − in a context where the private monopoly of their production persists, it is difficult, if not impossible, to improve the free movement of chemicals and mixtures in the internal market and to correct distortions of competition while ensuring high levels of worker safety and environmental protection. it has long been known - and reality has shown - that the pursuit of maximum profit is incompatible with the necessary rationality in the production and distribution of production by human beings. explosive precursors are not off the hook. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. we are, however, pleased that a safeguard clause is included in the framework of liberalisation, allowing any member state that so wishes to apply stricter measures to certain substances or mixtures of substances, and to decide that it will not allow private individuals to have access to any of the substances in question.
in writing. - i approve this regulation, as proposed by the commission, which provides, in the context of croatia's accession, for a derogation from the general rules on the recruitment of european union staff. as was done when the 12 new countries joined in 2004 and 2007, the commission is now being asked to repeat the procedure for croatian citizens. the proposed regulation allows until 2018 that certain competitions for the recruitment of staff be reserved for croatian nationals. the five-year period does not seem excessive. i would remind you that as europe enlarges, we must adapt to an enlarged europe, allowing for an equitable representation of croatia, so that this country can be more quickly and more easily integrated into the mechanisms and functioning of the european institutions and policies.
in writing. − in view of croatia's accession to the european union (eu), this report provides for a derogation from the general eu rules on the recruitment of staff. this derogation is justified as the rules in force in the staff regulations state that recruitment should be open to all eu citizens, irrespective of their nationality. the proposed regulation allows for a period of five years until 2018 for certain recruitment competitions to be reserved for croatian nationals, who will only be able to be recruited from the date of effective accession. traditionally, when countries join the eu, recruitment requirements are temporarily adapted to provide for 'positive discrimination' in favour of the acceding countries as well as appropriate representativeness, as was the case for the accession of the 12 new countries in 2004 and 2007. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - the regulation in question provides, in the context of croatia's accession, for a derogation from the general rules on recruitment of european union staff. this is necessary because the rules on recruitment laid down in the staff regulations provide that recruitment should be open to all citizens of the european union, irrespective of nationality. traditionally, recruitment requirements are temporarily adapted when countries join the union, providing 'positive discrimination' in their favour and appropriate representation in european union staff without undue delay. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the general thrust of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it necessary to review the regulation on the procedures relating to the recruitment of nationals of countries which have acceded to the union, in this case following the accession of croatia to the european union scheduled for 1 july 2013.
in writing. − on 1 december 2011, i welcomed the croatian people to the prospect of membership of the european union and expressed the hope that croatia's accession would give new reformist impetus to the balkan states which are not yet part of the union and to the european union itself, which, as is well known, is going through difficult times. almost a year later, the union is preparing to receive its first croatian officials, which justifies the support and the exception to the rule of equality between nationals of the member states when conducting professional competitions. i hope that croatian officials will be able to integrate quickly and easily, further enriching our diversity in unity, which is so characteristic of the european project.
in writing. the report under review, drawn up by mrs dagmar roth-behrendt, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council introducing, on the occasion of the accession of the republic of croatia to the european union (eu), a set of special and temporary measures concerning the recruitment of officials and temporary staff. although the staff regulations provide that 'recruitment shall be open to all eu citizens, irrespective of nationality', these requirements have been temporarily adapted when new member states (ms) acceded. this was the case in 2004 and 2007 when 12 new countries joined. as croatia is due to join the eu on 1 july 2013 and new staff are needed in the language sector (translators, interpreters, press advisers, etc.) as well as administrators and generalist assistants, i am voting in favour of this proposal to reserve certain recruitment competitions for croatian nationals until 2018, in accordance with the rules adopted at the accessions of 2004 and 2007.
in writing. − the commission's proposed regulation proposes, in the context of croatia's accession to the eu, a derogation from the general rules on recruitment of european union staff which provide that recruitment should be open to all european union citizens, irrespective of nationality. this derogation is intended to ensure that the competitions to be launched, and some already launched, will be mainly aimed at croatian candidates in the language sector, administrators and generalist assistants. this procedure follows the pattern set by instruments previously adopted in the context of the accessions of other countries in 2004 and 2007, which we have nothing against.
in writing. - the accession of croatia to the european union makes it necessary to adopt this report. in order to be able to recruit the first croatian officials to the ep, the recruitment rules need to be adapted to this need. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report which provides for positive discrimination in favour of croatian citizens in relation to the general rules for recruitment of european union staff. this derogation, in the context of the accession of croatia, is necessary in view of the recruitment rules laid down in the staff regulations, which provide that recruitment should be open to all citizens of the european union, irrespective of nationality. there is no objection given that the provisions are clear and unquestionable and follow the pattern set by instruments previously adopted under accessions in 2004 and 2007.
in writing. - this proposal for a regulation provides for a derogation from the general rules on the recruitment of staff of the european union. the rules laid down in the staff regulations state that recruitment should be open to all eu citizens, irrespective of nationality. however, recruitment requirements can be temporarily adapted when countries join the union, providing 'positive discrimination' in their favour and appropriate representation in the eu staff. that is what is now being sought in view of croatia's accession. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this regulation aims to apply a derogation from the general rules for recruitment of staff in the european union by means of positive discrimination against croatian nationals in the context of the country's accession to the union. this exception will be open until 2018, allowing the opening of tenders reserved only for croatian citizens. the areas covered are the linguistic sector (translators, interpreters, editors, proofreaders and press advisers), administrators and assistants. as accession will take place on 1 july 2013, i am voting in favour of this report.
in writing. − the commission's proposed regulation proposes, in the context of croatia's accession to the eu, a derogation from the general rules on recruitment of european union staff which provide that recruitment should be open to all european union citizens, irrespective of nationality. however, in this context, the calls to be launched, and some already launched, will be mainly aimed at croatian candidates in the language sector, administrators and generalist assistants. this procedure follows the pattern set by instruments previously adopted in the context of accessions in 2004 and 2007, which we have nothing to object to.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the exploration protocol is an important document of the 'barcelona convention' for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean. these protocols cover a wide range of operating activities as well as the removal of installations, hazardous substances, regional coordination and provisions for safety, contingency, planning and monitoring. in view of these facts, we must still have on the horizon the 2010 gulf of mexico oil spill and other accidents which prove the importance of the adoption of this report in order to promote not only safety but also sustainable governance of exploitation activities, coupled with appropriate international cooperation.
in writing. − on 27 october 2011, the european commission published a proposal for a council decision on the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the sea-bed and its subsoil, referred to as the offshore protocol. although it entered into force on 24 march 2011, the protocol has not been signed or ratified by the european union (eu) to date. recent accidents, in particular the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010, have highlighted the need to increase the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration activities, highlighting the need for a policy of sustainable governance of oil and gas exploration activities, and promoting international cooperation to improve offshore safety and the response capacity of all parties involved. taking into account that the european parliament has already expressed in its resolution of 13 september 2011 entitled 'addressing the challenges of offshore oil and gas safety' the importance of the full entry into force of the offshore protocol, i supported this recommendation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider it crucial to increase the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration activities as dramatically highlighted by recent accidents, notably the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010.
in writing. − the european union has sought, in its internal and external action, to be a force for good quality of life for its citizens and for the protection of the environment and nature. the mediterranean sea is not exempt from this concern and the need to take measures to protect it from pollution. the offshore protocol specifically addresses cases arising from excessive exploration and exploitation. although the european union is a party to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, it has not yet signed or ratified the said protocol. i believe that the union must do everything in its power to combat offshore pollution and must seek the best technical solutions to the problems it and the member states are facing in this respect. if the content of the protocol should need to be improved, this should not impede the protection of the mediterranean.
in writing. − the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil (offshore protocol), adopted on 14 october 1994, is one of the protocols to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean. this protocol covers a wide range of prospecting and exploration activities in the mediterranean. this offshore oil and gas exploration activity, dramatically enhanced by recent accidents, most notably the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010. offshore exploration activities in the mediterranean are expected to increase due to the discovery of new fossil fuel reserves. a policy of sustainable governance of these oil and gas exploration activities is therefore imperative to prevent an accident of this kind from happening. an accident would have immediate and large-scale effects in a semi-open sea such as the mediterranean, causing tragic consequences for its fragile economy and ecosystems and undermining the efforts of the eu mediterranean member states to achieve and maintain good environmental status of their marine waters in the mediterranean as required by the marine strategy framework directive.
in writing. - this report approves the eu's accession to the protocol on the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil. the protocol commits the acceding states to take, individually or through bilateral/multilateral cooperation, all appropriate measures to prevent, reduce, control and control pollution in the mediterranean sea area, including the waters, the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil, resulting from exploration and exploitation activities (oil and gas), ensuring that the best available techniques, environmentally effective and economically appropriate are used for this purpose. it lays down requirements for licensing, removal of abandoned or out-of-use facilities, use or disposal of dangerous substances, liability and compensation requirements, safety provisions, emergency plans and controls. the experience of accidents recorded over the years - of which the gulf of mexico accident was the most recent and tragic expression - has shown that offshore oil and gas exploration and exploitation requires effective regulatory and control measures, safeguarding the protection of workers, populations and ecosystems, and making them prevail over the profit of the multinationals in the sector. we voted in favour.
in writing. − the need to increase the safety of offshore oil and gas exploration activities has been dramatically enhanced by recent accidents, most notably the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010. offshore exploration activities in the mediterranean are expected to increase due to the discovery of new fossil fuel reserves and such an accident could have immediate large-scale effects on a semi-open sea such as the mediterranean, causing tragic consequences for its economy and fragile ecosystems and undermining the efforts of the eu mediterranean member states to achieve and maintain good environmental status of their marine waters in the mediterranean. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − in october 2011, the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil. this protocol, also known as the 'offshore protocol', covers a diverse range of exploration and exploitation activities in the mediterranean, as well as licensing requirements, use and disposal of hazardous substances, liability and compensation requirements, safety provisions, emergency plans and control, among others. with an expected increase in offshore exploration activities in the mediterranean due to the discovery of new fossil fuel reserves, there is an urgent need to increase the safety of oil and natural gas extraction activities. i voted in favour of this report because i agree that the protocol is essential to increase the sustainability and safety of offshore activities and, consequently, to safeguard the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from the exploration and exploitation of fossil fuels.
in writing. − the european union and all its mediterranean member states, together with 14 other mediterranean third countries, are contracting parties to the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, also known as the 'barcelona convention'. one of the protocols to the barcelona convention, known as the 'offshore protocol', deals with the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from the exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil. the protocol entered into force on 24 march 2011 and some of the member states that are contracting parties to the barcelona convention have already announced in recent months their intention to amend it. however, the eu has not signed or amended it. with a view to promoting international cooperation to improve offshore safety, the ratification of this protocol by the eu represents an important step, especially in view of the need to respond to the expected increase in offshore exploration activities in the mediterranean as a result of the discovery of new fossil fuel reserves, and to ensure a sustainable governance policy for offshore oil and gas exploration, exploitation and production. i therefore voted in favour of the eu's accession to the protocol.
in writing. − the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and the subsoil, signed in october 1994, is part of the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, signed in 1976, to which the eu and all its mediterranean member states are parties. the signature and ratification of the agreement by the union, in accordance with the tfeu, is subject to the consent of the european parliament. the opportunities offered by the sea, in particular the commitment to blue growth, merit our attention in relation to certain activities that can cause the destruction of the marine environment. for these reasons, this protocol sets out areas of control and duties for the contracting parties, in particular relating to the exploration and exploitation of the seabed and subsoil. we must not shrink from our responsibility to preserve the marine ecosystem.
in writing. - this report, which we voted for, approves the eu's accession to the protocol on the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and its subsoil. as the world has unfortunately experienced, the various accidents recorded over the years, such as the gulf of mexico accident, have shown that offshore oil and gas exploration and exploitation involves immense dangers and requires effective regulatory and control measures to safeguard the protection of workers, populations and ecosystems, and to put them ahead of the profits of the multinational companies in the sector.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that it is first and foremost in the interest of both parties to conclude a new protocol. a new protocol which decides on fishing opportunities for the following year, taking into account scientific advice, a precautionary approach and the needs of the fishing industry and the minimum quantities to maintain fishing activities in greenland, is entirely consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and i therefore consider this a positive protocol for both parties.
in writing. the first partnership agreements with greenland were concluded after its withdrawal from the ec in 1985. the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the eu and the former local government of greenland was adopted on 28 june 2007 and sets out the annual fishing opportunities and financial contribution until 31 december 2012. under the powers conferred on it by the council on 19 july 2011, the european commission has conducted three rounds of negotiations with the government of greenland, including representatives of the government of denmark. at the end of these negotiations, a new protocol was initialled on 3 february 2012 covering a three-year period starting on 1 january 2013. the current fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries and is a source of mutual benefit to both parties. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries and is a source of mutual benefit for both parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates a responsible and sustainable fisheries agreement, based on exhaustive assessments of available resources, between the european union, the government of denmark and the local government of greenland.
in writing. − the conclusion of bilateral fisheries agreements with third countries, known as fisheries partnership agreements, is an essential element of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy. by extending the scope beyond the acquisition of fishing rights for eu vessels, these agreements oblige contracting parties to promote responsible and sustainable fisheries policies, based on exhaustive assessments of available resources. in this context, i therefore agree that the current fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries and is a source of mutual benefit to both parties.
in writing. - mr christensen presents a recommendation on the draft council decision on the conclusion of a protocol setting out the fishing conditions and the financial compensation provided for in the fisheries partnership agreement (fpa) between the european community, on the one hand, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, on the other. the european union (eu), with its 500 million consumers, is the world's largest fish consuming community and needs to fish in seas other than its own to meet its needs. greenland's economy is heavily dependent on fisheries and fish products exports, particularly to the eu, which accounted for 92,7% of total exports in 2010. however, the balance of trade is clearly in favour of the eu. i voted in favour of this recommendation as it not only allows the eu fishing fleet to continue to fish in waters under the sovereignty of denmark and the local government of greenland from 1 january 2013, but also ensures the protection of fisheries resources by promoting a responsible and sustainable fisheries policy.
in writing. the first fisheries agreement between the eec and the eu and greenland was concluded in 1985, one year before portugal joined the eec. the fisheries in greenland's waters are another example of how national interests were neglected in the accession negotiations and the subsequent integration of national fisheries into the common fisheries policy. portugal is one of the european countries with the longest and richest fishing tradition in these waters. however, the fishing opportunities granted to portugal under this agreement, in the name of relative stability which has never recognized the historical portuguese presence in these waters, discriminate strongly against our fleet. in the agreement which has now expired, portugal was not given the opportunity to make effective use of the quota of 1 000 tonnes of alabaster. the national (bottom longline) vessels that went to greenland did not achieve effective exploitation of the stock. in the new agreement, greenland made available to the eu a new quota of 2 000 tonnes of demersal redfish from the stock that moves between iceland and the greenland exclusive economic zone. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - fisheries partnership agreements are an important part of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy. i therefore consider the current fisheries partnership agreement with greenland to be consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries, and to be a source of mutual benefit to both parties. i also believe that it is a cornerstone of cooperation between the eu and greenland and of nordic cooperation in the field of fisheries resources. i therefore give my vote in favour.
in writing. − the first fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) between the eu and greenland date back to 1985, reflecting the importance of greenland's fisheries for the fleets of some european countries. the establishment of fishing opportunities under this app is based on scientific advice and the protocol is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp) and the fundamental principle of sustainable fisheries. the protocol is considered mutually beneficial for both parties and provides for a significant eu contribution of more than 20% of the annual financial contribution to the improvement and implementation of sectoral fisheries policies in greenland, with positive effects on the economy of coastal communities and on the level of job creation. since i consider that ppps contribute to strengthening cooperation and the eu's strategic presence in the waters of third countries and that this protocol is favourable to the fleets of some european countries, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the first partnership agreement with greenland was concluded after its withdrawal from the ec in 1985, guaranteeing the community the possibility of retaining its fishing rights in exchange for economic compensation. as the agreement is due to expire on 31 december 2012, the european commission, authorised by the council, after three rounds of negotiations, has completed work on a new protocol providing for a financial contribution from the eu of €17.85 million per year. the fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is consistent with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principle of sustainable fisheries and is a source of mutual benefit to both parties. i therefore voted in favour of the conclusion of the protocol.
in writing. − greenland is part of the overseas countries and territories of the european union (eu) within the meaning of article 355 (2) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). bilateral fisheries agreements with third countries are very important in strengthening the external dimension of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the fisheries partnership agreements (fpas) commit the contracting parties to promote responsible and sustainable fisheries policies based on comprehensive assessments of available resources. i agree with this report that establishes a fisheries agreement between the eu and greenland for the three-year period 2013-2015, thus enabling eu vessels to acquire fishing rights. in compensation, greenland should receive annual financial support of eur 17,85 million.
in writing. the first fisheries agreement between the eec and the eu and greenland was concluded in 1985, one year before portugal joined the eec. portugal was one of the countries whose interests were seriously affected by the decline in fishing opportunities in greenland, with a strong tradition and history in this area. with this new agreement greenland has made available to the eu a new quota of 2 000 tonnes of redfish from the demersal (salt) component and we hope that there will now be a fair distribution of this quota among the member states, recognising the legitimate rights and aspirations of the portuguese fleet, which has been clearly discriminated against and harmed.
in writing. - i approve this report, which provides for amendments to the directive to allow a european citizen residing in a member state other than that of his nationality to vote in european elections. i think it is another decisive step towards the creation of a real political space at european level, although mechanisms of supervision and control are necessary to avoid double voting. i also believe that we must not forget that the concept of european citizenship is only fully developed when mobility and residence between different member states other than the one of which you are a national allows all citizens, regardless of their origin and location in the european area, to enjoy the same rights.
in writing. - parliament's initial intention was to allow candidates to stand in more than one constituency in the same election. this is provided for in the 1976 act on the election of the representatives of the european parliament by direct universal suffrage, although in practice it is not regulated in eu secondary law (or in most national legislation). i voted in favour of this report because i consider that, although the new draft does not meet the most ambitious objectives of parliament, it does introduce some modest improvements to the current situation in terms of administrative convenience for the future candidate and the states concerned.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the harmonisation of electoral systems between member states, which will allow, for example, the eligibility of candidates for the european parliament in different member states. it is not understandable that the present differences between electoral systems often prevent citizens from exercising their right to vote because of bureaucratic problems. however, the directive should ensure that no one votes more than once, nor is a candidate in more than one member state in the same election.
in writing. - the question of the active and passive electoral legitimacy of residents of one member state who are nationals of another, in relation to elections to the european parliament, remains relatively controversial and raises not only theoretical but also practical questions of considerable importance. i believe that all changes in electoral systems and the way in which member states elect their members of the european parliament should be treated with the utmost caution. i therefore recommend that all amendments should not go beyond what is necessary to improve the proximity between elected representatives and voters, and that technical issues should not be used for political purposes. that said, i believe that there is now a majority view that, if there is agreement on the part of the national parties competing for the european parliament, they can include citizens of other member states on their lists and that this possibility should not be made more difficult. the issues of the verifiability, in due time, of the existence of double voting or double candidacy deserve the greatest attention.
in writing. − as the european union (eu) is an area of free movement of persons and goods, more and more citizens are taking up residence in a member state (eu) other than their home member state, which raises some legal questions in relation to the european elections. during the last european parliament elections in 2009, this issue was discussed but no consensus was reached. the council also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the establishment of a european union-wide police force, and on the establishment of a european union-wide police force. the new directive allows a candidate to stand for election in the member state where he or she resides, but requires him or her to indicate in the application form his or her last address in the country of origin so that the information considered relevant can be made available. if irregularities are detected, the candidate will be prevented from taking office. in view of the urgency of the adoption of these amendments and the favourable opinion of the committee on constitutional affairs, i voted in favour of this proposal for a directive.
in writing. - this report approves the council text which aims to facilitate certain aspects of the process of eligibility for election to the european parliament for citizens of one member state residing in another member state. the content of the report cannot be separated from the attempts, step by step, to try to confuse and break the connection of members to each member state and its reality, to its population; to destroy the sovereignty of the peoples the right to decide on their present and their future in accordance with their rights and aspirations. this path is inseparable from the impoverishment of political and democratic rights and freedoms, from the strengthening of european parties (linked and dependent on funding and respect for eu rules and principles), from the attempt to further reduce the number of meps elected by each country, thus amputating the plurality of party representation. the intention is clear: to remove administratively from institutional representation those parties which challenge the interests of big capital and the big powers which dominate the eu institutions, thus creating a political system totally subservient to the interests and needs of big capital and the big powers, to impose the increase of exploitation and to deny the peoples their right to development.
in writing. - this issue has been the subject of some controversy within the eu. any change to the rules governing electoral systems and the way in which members of the european parliament are chosen should be done with some caution. that is the direction this report is taking, and that is why i am voting in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on certain aspects of the system for the exercise of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament by citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals. the committee on constitutional affairs decided to apply the simplified procedure to deliver a swift favourable opinion on the unamended council proposal, in the expectation that the reforms, considered to be modest but relevant, in particular on eligibility criteria and facilitation of the application procedures, could be operational in a timely manner in 2014.
in writing. on 12 september, the council adopted a text aimed at adopting a directive amending directive 93/109/ec establishing a system for the exercise of the right to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament by citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals. at the same time, the council decided to consult parliament again. the new draft, while far from parliament's ambitions, introduces some improvements over the current situation and has lightened some of the burden on national authorities to check whether a person has been prevented from standing as a candidate in his or her home state. it is desirable to make these proposals feasible before the next elections in 2014. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of experts in the field of health and safety at work, and for the establishment of a european network of experts in the field of health and safety at work. i agree with this view and therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − although this proposal for a directive on eligibility for elections to the european parliament does not meet all the objectives of the european parliament, as it has not found the support of the council, it does contain important amendments, to enter into force as early as the next european elections in 2014. the main objective is therefore to reduce the burden on member states, in particular as regards the verification of whether or not a person has been prevented from standing as a candidate in his or her own state. i am voting in favour of this draft report, but i think that the debate on voting rights, in particular the reform of the mechanism to prevent double voting, should be reconsidered.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated. on the pretext of this, what is at issue here, as the aim of a wider strategy, is the impoverishment of political and democratic rights and freedoms, the strengthening of european parties, the attempt to reduce even further the number of members elected by each country. we could not support this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering first of all that a high level of consumer protection in credit is necessary to improve financial inclusion on the one hand and to increase consumption and growth in the european market on the other. this directive, in my view, by focusing on the key elements that respect consumer rights, is an essential step towards restoring consumer confidence in banking. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. − the consumer credit directive pursues two objectives: a high level of consumer protection and the strengthening of the crossborder internal market for consumer credit. while it is true that the level of consumer protection has increased considerably in europe through the harmonization of rules on the right to credit, it is also true that the increase in the contraction of consumer credit appears to be insignificant. this may be due to the fact that few institutions offer credit to cross-border consumers and that in recent years the market has been in recession due to the crisis. as regards the implementation of directive 2008/48/ec on credit agreements for consumers, some problems were identified, in particular the total or partial delays in the transposition of directive 2008/48/ec by some member states: many member states have extended the scope to other financial products. this report, which i have supported, argues that the european commission should review the transposition and urge the member states to implement it. it also advocates the need for a thorough evaluation of the effects of the directive on the basis of which amendments to it may be envisaged.
in writing. − the consumer credit directive pursues two objectives: a high level of consumer protection and the strengthening of the crossborder internal market for consumer credit. the level of consumer protection has undoubtedly been greatly improved in europe through the partially exhaustive harmonisation of some essential components of credit law. however, the increase in the contraction of consumer credit appears to be insignificant. this may be due to the fact that very few credit institutions offer credit to cross-border consumers and that in recent years the market has been in recession due to the financial market crisis. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it important to strengthen consumer protection and the internal market in consumer credit.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report for calling on the member states to fully implement directive 2008/48/ec in order to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to strengthen the internal market for cross-border consumer credit.
in writing. − the consumer credit directive was passed by this parliament in 2008 and aimed to harmonise various aspects of consumer credit legislation in contracts between €200 and €75,000. the aim of this harmonisation was to reduce the differences in national legislation and to ensure greater and better comparability between the information on loan conditions provided to consumers in the various member states, in order to facilitate cross-border lending. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. − the functioning of the internal market should help the citizens of the european union (eu) to overcome the current economic and financial crisis, which is also a credit crunch. it is therefore essential to increase access to crossborder credit by enhancing the functioning of the single market, increasing confidence in this area and eliminating any speculation. the present report by birgit collin-langen on the application of directive 2008/48/ec on credit agreements for consumers aims at harmonising the laws of the member states (ms) by maximising the level of consumer protection in this area. it is essential that the legal rules on consumer credit agreements are applied in the same way throughout the eu. i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to encourage crossborder transmissions by means of greater legal clarity, better information to citizens about fees and other charges, greater procedural efficiency and greater consumer safety.
in writing. − this report advances a reflection on the implementation of the consumer credit contracts directive, adopted in 2008. this directive had two objectives: to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to introduce a common legal framework for consumer credit agreements. the aim is to facilitate the opening up of national markets and to promote the granting of credit for crossborder consumption, with a view to strengthening the internal market and thus monopolistic concentration in this sector too. we do not ignore the positive aspects of the report, in particular the reference to problems relating to consumer protection, such as the lack of information, the provision of credit via sms, the lack of consumer protection, the need for strict monitoring of advertising and marketing practices. we appreciate the concerns and considerations expressed in the report in this regard. in the end, in an overall assessment, these two aspects coexist in the report, on the contrary: the positive and necessary protection of consumers and the negative considerations about the single market.
in writing. − the consumer credit directive pursues two objectives: a high level of consumer protection and the strengthening of the crossborder internal market for consumer credit. the level of consumer protection has undoubtedly been greatly improved in europe through the partially exhaustive harmonisation of some essential components of credit law. the harmonization of legislation has greatly improved consumer protection in consumer credit agreements, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the consumer credit directive, a directive which pursues two objectives: a high level of consumer protection and the strengthening of the crossborder internal market for consumer credit. the level of consumer protection has been greatly increased in europe through the partially exhaustive harmonisation of some essential components of credit law. however, the increase in the contraction of consumer credit appears to be insignificant. this may be due to the fact that only a few credit institutions offer credit to cross-border consumers and that in recent years the market has been in recession due to the financial market crisis. moreover, obstacles to cross-border consumer credit are more due to language problems or the lack of a personal contact with the financial institution than to the legal area. the present review aims to put an end to some problems identified during the review, namely: publicity, pre-contractual information, contractual information, right of withdrawal, early reimbursement and calculation of the annual overall effective rate of charges.
in writing. − the consumer credit directive has two objectives: to achieve a high level of consumer protection and to promote the strengthening of the crossborder internal market for consumer credit. if, on the one hand, we see in europe an increase in the level of consumer protection through the harmonization of rules on the right to credit, on the other hand, we also see that cross-border taking out of consumer credit has not increased since the entry into force of the directive. this can be explained by the effects of the economic downturn on consumption and the shortage of institutions offering credit to cross-border consumers. the commission should therefore, before proposing to parliament any necessary amendments, review the transposition and put pressure on member states to implement the directive, and present to parliament and the council an evaluation report on the implementation of the directive and a comprehensive assessment of its impact on consumer protection, taking into account the consequences of the financial crisis and the new eu legal framework on financial services.
in writing. − i believe that improving the consumer credit market can bring european added value in terms of economic dynamism and that information should be provided to consumers on the opportunities to access consumer credit in other member states. unfortunately, the volume of crossborder consumer credit is less than 2%, despite the fact that the level of consumer protection has increased considerably in europe through the comprehensive harmonisation of some essential components of credit law. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to safeguard consumer rights, to facilitate consumer credit in member states other than the member state of origin and to purchase products at european level.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to reflect on the implementation of the consumer credit contracts directive, adopted in 2008. the directive sets out two objectives: to ensure a high level of consumer protection and to introduce a common legal framework for consumer credit agreements. the aim is to facilitate the opening up of national markets and to promote the granting of credit to cross-border consumption, in order to strengthen the internal market, which we oppose on principle and because of the profoundly negative consequences it has had for the portuguese economy. however, there are also positive aspects to consider, in particular the reference to problems related to consumer protection, such as lack of information, the provision of credit via sms, the lack of consumer protection, the need for strict monitoring of advertising and marketing practices. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing that austerity measures are not enough to overcome the crisis. budgetary consolidation needs to be complemented by a social investment strategy. at the social level, the europe 2020 employment and education objectives are not sufficiently achieved in most member states. it is therefore necessary for member states to consider the social investment pact, as it sets investment targets and reinforces the need for control mechanisms in relation to social and employment policies. moreover, the alarming numbers of youth unemployment demand immediate action. i therefore support the idea that the european union needs social governance to counterbalance purely economic governance.
in writing. − most of the responses to the crisis so far have been short-term, aiming mainly at restoring sustainability to public finances, which is crucial for the eu economy. we cannot, however, ignore the negative effects that austerity measures can have on employment and competitiveness in europe, and we must therefore complement them with measures to promote growth and employment, including sound social investment. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that if we are to return to sustainable growth in europe, it is imperative to make well-targeted social investments to prepare citizens, families and societies to adapt to changing economic conditions and new labour market requirements; to promote the reintegration of the unemployed, especially the long-term unemployed, into the labour market; to create sustainable and quality jobs; to invest in education and training, promoting improved educational outcomes and a better match of academic and vocational qualifications to labour market requirements.
in writing. − the unemployment rate in the european union exceeded 10% in january 2012 as a consequence of the economic and social crisis. europe has high unemployment rates, especially among young people. the economic and financial crisis in europe will have lasting effects. this means that economic growth, employment, social investment and public savings will be affected as long as the crisis lasts. given that the public sector has been burdened with debt in recent years and that most of the responses to this have been short-term, measures to promote employment, growth and competitiveness will be needed in the long term. well-targeted social investment is imperative to achieve better outcomes in education and training in the european union, as it remains insufficient to meet the needs of the labour market. one of the most important characteristics of social investment is that it can reconcile social and economic objectives, making it an investment with a return in the future, provided it is well implemented. i therefore call for the modernisation of the european social model and recommend a reformulation of social policies at national level and, in this context, greater attention to social entrepreneurship.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates increasing social spending in the eu. we cannot ignore the negative effects of austerity measures on employment and competitiveness in europe, and we must therefore complement them with measures to promote growth and employment, in particular through prudent and efficient social investment.
in writing. − unemployment is one of the main problems facing the eu at the moment and it is urgent to find strategies for creating jobs in a sustainable way and without this being done on the basis of new indebtedness of the states. the current public debt trajectory in most euro area countries is unsustainable and credit dependence needs to be reduced, which can only be achieved by reducing government expenditure. but while it is imperative to reduce debt and clean up public accounts, it is also necessary to complement these measures with real incentives for growth, competitiveness and employment, as a way of ensuring that growth in europe recovers and the recession ends. in this context, it seems to me that the proposal for a social investment pact contained in this report can and should be studied critically. this pact can effectively allow for better management of social, political and employment implementation and its alignment with the targets set by the 2020 strategy.
in writing. - the present report, by danuta jazłowiecka, focuses on the social investment pact (sip) as a response to the economic and financial crisis affecting most of the member states (ms) of the european union (eu) threatening their stability and resulting in a high rate of unemployment, especially youth unemployment. the crisis must sharpen our ingenuity in promoting the creation of skilled jobs under the europe 2020 strategy, which implies a coordinated approach to social investment. the implementation of the proposed measures will thus make it possible to take a step forward in the economies of the new member states. by investing in social policies, we are giving people the opportunity to participate in the labour market, thereby reducing the social exclusion they may suffer. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this sip meets the needs of the most deprived families and communities. in addition to seeking to consolidate public finances, we must also seek to respond to the needs of the population in order to give them the quality of life they lack.
in writing. the rapporteur insists on the current version of those responsible for this crisis as to the solution to get out of it: combining the so-called austerity and budgetary consolidation measures with an investment strategy for sustainable growth and employment. the usual trick: try to mix oil and water. the commission has also proposed a transition process from an active welfare state to what it calls a mobilising welfare state. the proposals are made, and they are made with a serious face and a sharp air, such is the concern with the welfare state. the only thing the workers and peoples of europe need to do is to throw these policies of deregulation of the state and the dismantling of its social functions into the dustbin of history. the paper continues: promotion of precarious employment relationships (flexicurity), increase of the retirement age, privatisation of public services creation of social investments and that these be included in the national reform plans and, in general, in the eu's macroeconomic and budgetary surveillance strategies. - what? just a bunch of garbage.
in writing. − the current financial crisis will continue to cause serious problems for the european economy, with the main impact on employment. the budgetary constraints of the member states have not allowed the implementation of measures to encourage job creation. it is therefore urgent to develop a coordinated approach at eu level to social investment. this 'social investment pact' aims to promote better governance and control mechanisms in relation to the implementation of the europe 2020 social, education and employment objectives. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the jazłowiecka report, which proposes a social investment pact, because it is not only accurate but also extremely timely. i have long argued that the increasing economic integration of the eu through the deepening of the internal market requires a corresponding advance in the social integration of the union, both to avoid social competition and social dumping (to artificially increase economic competitiveness) and to counterbalance the negative social impact (in terms of poverty and unemployment) of the internal market on the most vulnerable economies and countries. therefore, in addition to the necessary establishment of common basic standards of social protection at eu level, the idea of a social investment pact is especially timely when budgetary consolidation objectives are so negatively reflected in the reduction of public investment in education, health and social protection. social cohesion must be taken seriously as a constitutional guarantee of the union.
in writing. − most of the recent responses to the economic and financial crisis are based on short-term objectives, mainly aimed at restoring sustainability to public finances, which is crucial for the eu economy. however, the current crisis will undoubtedly have strong long-term effects not only on the european economy but also on employment levels, public savings and social investment in europe. in this context, we cannot ignore the negative effects of these austerity measures on employment and competitiveness in europe, and it is therefore necessary to complement them with measures to promote growth and employment, including sound social investment. this is the aim of this report, which, among other measures, seeks to lay the foundations for well-targeted social investment aimed at preparing citizens, families and societies to adapt to changing economic conditions and new labour market requirements. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the annual growth survey published by the commission shows that the social, employment and education policy objectives of strategy 2020 have not been sufficiently addressed by the member states. in order to restore sustainable growth, it is essential that well-targeted investments are made in line with the objectives set out in the report on the social investment pact. in addition to sustainable public finances, member states should focus on helping the unemployed, creating jobs and improving productivity at work. investment in training, improvement of education and reform of pension systems will also be needed. finally, it is also essential that every effort be made to combat poverty and social exclusion. member states should therefore be encouraged to ensure that the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 provides for the necessary budgetary resources to stimulate and support the implementation of social investments in europe and that the available funding, in particular the european social fund, is directed towards supporting investments of a social nature.
in writing. - the current economic and financial crisis has led to the closure of several businesses and the consequent loss of jobs for thousands of european citizens. this social scourge has been worsening in recent times and, despite the many supports made available by the member states, they are always insufficient in the face of the lack of professional opportunities that solve the scourge in question. i support this report because i believe that social investment should be an important part of the economic and employment policies of the european union and the member states in the face of the crisis. i join the rapporteur in urging the member states to sign a 'social investment pact' which will serve as a basis for the creation of a strengthened monitoring mechanism aimed at stepping up efforts to achieve the education, social and employment objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. finally, i support the implementation of projects in the area of social entrepreneurship and access to microfinance for the most vulnerable groups and people furthest from the labour market. these are some of the measures that will make it possible to create new jobs with sustainable characteristics, thus resisting the constant changes in economic cycles.
in writing. the rapporteur proposes a false solution to the problem of the economic crisis: combining so-called austerity and fiscal consolidation measures with an investment strategy for sustainable growth and employment, without taking into account that both are simply contradictory. on the basis of this idea, it proposes a process of transition from an active welfare state to what it calls a mobilizing welfare state. the real meaning of this concept is the disempowerment of the state in relation to the guarantee of social rights, in particular with regard to the provision of public services, by placing emphasis on individual responsibility, the creation of private social services i.e. privatization of public services , the promotion of precarious employment relations (flexicurity) and the unacceptable increase in the retirement age, eager to destroy another social right won by workers. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of hiv/aids and to ensure that the disease is eradicated. the way in which the living conditions of the workers are deteriorating will always be unacceptable to us.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that a more dynamic information policy adapted to the new requirements in favour of agricultural products is an important element for the new common agricultural policy after 2013, currently under discussion. the report also sets out the main objectives of the future policy for the promotion of agricultural products, assuming that they represent european added value, and incorporating them into a more attractive policy, with simpler management and a better combination of synergies between the different promotion instruments and the public and private actors in the agricultural sector.
in writing. the cap currently has a number of promotion instruments which have been established for different reasons and for different types of beneficiaries. the next step will now be to define more clearly a promotion policy that serves to stimulate and reward: the production of specific products, included in quality schemes and agricultural practices that produce less co2 emissions, protect biodiversity and are better suited to preserve the quality of the soils and water available. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the strategy which is being proposed is the right one and that it brings great added value to the european area.
in writing. the common agricultural policy (cap) has a range of promotion measures, designed for different purposes and targeted at different beneficiaries. however, the vast majority of these measures were created in the past to deal with agricultural surpluses and later food crises. but at the moment, these measures will have to be redirected to the problems of today. it should be stressed that the agri-food sector has the potential to become strong and vigorous and can contribute significantly to the economic growth of the member states. in this respect, information and promotion measures should be clear and cover all products which are covered by european quality standards. eu promotion policy should contribute to making the agri-food sector more competitive globally and to promoting european food diversity, with equal attention to the internal and external markets, as both encompass producers and consumers. the budget should pay particular attention to improving information and promotion tools. european farmers depend on significantly increasing their market shares to ensure that the food industry has a leading place in the eu economy and trade.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that a policy is needed to stimulate and reward the production of specific products, which are included in quality schemes and agricultural practices that produce less co2 emissions, protect biodiversity and are better suited to preserving the quality of the soil and water available.
in writing. - i can only welcome the european commission's communication on the information and promotion of european agricultural products and support its main aspects: the creation of more european added value in the food sector, a more attractive and secure policy in terms of its impact on the environment, more synergies between the different promotion instruments and a simpler management of the promotion itself. i believe that the eu's promotion policy is legitimate and important, not only at home, at local and regional level, but also in expanding global markets. this is a key strategy for the profitability and sustainability of the agricultural sector and the income of all european farmers.
in writing. − the common agricultural policy (cap) has several financial instruments aimed at promoting agricultural products, such as council regulation (ec) no 3/2008 (eur 50 million), operational programmes in the fruit and vegetables sector (eur 28 million in 2009), support for the promotion of wine in third countries (eur 236 million in 2012), school fruit and milk distribution programmes (eur 170 million for 2013), promotion activities by promoter groups (eur 29 million for the period 2009-2013), etc. i welcome the adoption of the report by mr josé bové on the information and promotion of agricultural products, and in particular on a strategy to promote european flavours which must be 'authentic, genuine and tasty for consumers'. in this connection, i particularly support the action to be taken in the context of the school milk and fruit distribution programmes and the creation of a sustainable agricultural model for the eu, thus benefiting our farmers and helping to overcome the current economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - despite the positive aspects of this report, such as the defence of the importance of local and regional markets and the promotion of products, it is nonetheless contradictory in supporting and promoting the current model of agricultural production - the same model that has devastated the agricultural sector in several countries, in particular small-scale farming and family farming, compromising their food sovereignty and security. the assertion that the success of european farmers will depend on their ability to increase their market shares is illustrative of the apology for export-oriented, productivist models which sacrifice quality, food safety and food sovereignty to the competitiveness of a few large farms. we do not agree that the mention of european origin should prevail as the main reference to the origin of the product, either in the internal market or in third countries. the indication of national origin, as we now know, is essential to support, enhance and promote national production, shorter supply chains and the functioning and development of local and regional markets. these measures are important (though not sufficient) to contribute to the balance of the agri-food balance in the most deficit countries, such as portugal.
in writing. - this initiative by the commission is important for the information and promotion of european agricultural products. this new policy should focus on two aspects: - the production of specific products, which are included in quality schemes; - agricultural practices that produce less co2 emissions, protect biodiversity and are better suited to preserving the quality of the soils and the water available. the promotion policy should, as far as possible, concentrate on financing projects which meet these two major objectives which are, in many cases, compatible. an implicit objective should be to increase farmers' incomes by focusing on products where supply management instruments are allowed. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'information and promotion of agricultural products: a strategy with high european added value to promote european flavours', which was adopted by an absolute majority and for which i was the shadow rapporteur. the amendments i made were to make it compulsory to extend the promotion of european flavours to the external market as well as the internal market and, at this level, to the regional and local levels, thus correcting the initial perspective on this subject, which was very restrictive in that it was limited to traditional products that respected environmentally friendly production methods. the adoption of these proposals heralds a policy for promoting european tastes which the european parliament has now clearly and unequivocally stated should be as comprehensive as possible and which should have among its main objectives the recognition that european agri-food products comply with the most stringent production standards in the world in terms of hygiene and safety; environmental and animal welfare measures; obtaining a fair price for producers; and full and objective information for the consumer.
in writing. − the agri-food industry is a very important sector, leveraging economic growth and innovation, particularly in rural areas and at regional level. it is therefore curious that strategies are being developed to increase agricultural incomes, to create jobs and generate growth. the current information and promotion tools should therefore be further developed in order to ensure a coherent and efficient promotion policy in relation to market requirements, increased competitiveness in the agricultural sector, and greater awareness of the high quality of european products. there are already promotion instruments in place: the established horizontal promotion scheme, support for the promotion of wine in non-eu countries, school fruit and milk distribution programmes under the single cmo regulation. however, the eu needs a more ambitious promotion policy in terms of content, budget and management structures. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the common agricultural policy has a number of promotion instruments at its disposal, and these instruments have a variety of objectives and beneficiaries. however, these promotion instruments need to be improved and adjusted in order to ensure a higher competitiveness of the agricultural sector as a whole and thus contribute to a european strategy aimed at restoring added value for european farmers, i.e. the promotion instruments should focus more on the aspects that make the european agricultural market safer from the point of view of food safety and hygiene, animal welfare and environmental protection, compared to its competitors. this will help to promote the growth of the european agricultural market, to promote job creation and to ensure a secure supply of food in the european union. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the defence of the importance of local and regional markets and the promotion of products are positive aspects of this report, although it does not fail to support and enhance the current model of agricultural production which has devastated small farming and family farming. it is deeply unfortunate that the indication of european origin prevails as the main reference for the origin of the product, since the indication of national origin is essential to support, enhance and promote national production, shorter supply chains and the functioning and development of local and regional markets. we cannot accept this approach which does not protect the type of agriculture most widely practiced in portugal.
in writing. - i approve this proposal for a directive, considering first of all that it is fair for artists to receive their dividends for their work. in view of the increasing commercial transactions in works of art, it is necessary, on the one hand, to ensure that artists are properly remunerated for their work. on the other hand, those responsible for the commercial exchange of art must be bound by a commitment to artists, while ensuring that the added value generated by these works of art and their authors is properly valued in the european cultural heritage.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its assumptions, namely that authors of graphic and visual artworks should be guaranteed an economic share in the success of their works and that the application of copyright should be harmonised throughout the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in favour of the application of the copyright directive to ensure that authors of graphic and visual artworks have a financial share in the success of their work and to harmonise the application of copyright throughout the eu.
in writing. − the copyright directive was designed with the dual aim of ensuring that authors of graphic and visual artworks have an economic share in the success of their works and of harmonising the application of copyright law throughout the eu. it was fully transposed only at the beginning of this year and it is important to note that some third countries, such as china and the usa, have decided to adopt similar rules on the right of sequence. the report highlights the trend of increasing revenues in the art market, not only in europe but especially in china, which holds 41,4% of the world market, which shows that the right of sequence does not seem to have had a negative effect on the art market. i agree with the rapporteur when she urges the commission to strengthen the position of the european art market and to overcome some difficulties, such as the snowball effect of the current legislation.
in writing. − the global art market is estimated to be worth around usd 12 billion by 2012, and its creators or heirs should be fairly compensated. it sometimes happens that a work of art is successively traded increasing its value exponentially without any benefit to its author or heirs. the report under review, by marielle gallo, deals with the application and effects of the right of way directive. the 'right of succession' is the prerogative which any author of a work of art has to share in the price of successive sales of his work. the exercise of this right at european union (eu) level was harmonised on 1 january 2006. although there has been a breakdown in the european art market, a causal link with the entry into force of this directive cannot be established. i voted in favour of this proposal, which aims, on the one hand, to ensure that authors of graphic and visual artworks have a financial share in the successive transactions of their works and, on the other, to harmonise the application of copyright law throughout the eu.
in writing. - we agree with the rapporteur that artistic creation makes a decisive contribution to the affirmation and development of cultural heritage. the so-called sequence right guaranteeing a percentage of the profit on the sale of the artwork to the artist ensures a continuity of remuneration for creators who very often sell their works at low prices at the beginning of their career. in this way, the right of succession for the benefit of the author during his lifetime of an original work of art can contribute to ensuring that artists are duly compensated for their production. on this occasion, we cannot fail to defend the right to cultural and artistic creation and enjoyment and the role of the state in creating conditions for the implementation of this right, which is today severely questioned in portugal, despite being enshrined in the constitution of the republic.
in writing. − this directive has been designed with a dual objective: on the one hand, to ensure that authors of graphic and visual artworks have an economic share in the success of their works and, on the other, to harmonise the application of copyright law throughout the eu. with the art market valued at $10 billion in 2010 and almost $12 billion in 2012, we believe that the commission should work closely with stakeholders to strengthen the position of the european art market and overcome the existing difficulties.
in writing. − the copyright directive was designed with a dual objective: on the one hand, to ensure that authors of graphic and visual artworks have an economic share in the success of their works, and on the other, to harmonise the application of copyright law throughout the eu. the adoption of the directive was important for artists, not only for their initiatives aimed at obtaining recognition and fair treatment as creators, but also for their role in contributing to cultural values. however, some concerns remain, which this report highlights by urging the european commission to address the shortcomings already identified and to enforce the rights created at european level also against third countries through international agreements.
in writing. − the copyright directive was designed with a dual objective: on the one hand, to ensure that authors of graphic and visual artworks have an economic share in the success of their works, and on the other, to harmonise the application of copyright law throughout the eu. in its report on the application and effects of the directive, the commission concluded that it is not possible to establish a clear link between the loss of eu market share in the global market for modern and contemporary art and the harmonisation of the provisions concerning the application of the right of sequence in the eu on 1 january 2006. moreover, the data contained in the commission's report, as well as the figures from the market, suggest that the right of sequence has no negative impact on the location of the art market, nor on the level of turnover. the commission is invited to work closely with the interested parties in order to strengthen the position of the european art market.
in writing. − the art market had a very positive year in 2011, with sales of $11.57 billion, an increase of more than $2 billion over the previous year. in the same year, the european art market experienced a strong growth, with the united kingdom maintaining a world market share of 19.4%; france 4.5% and germany about 1.8%. i support this report because i believe that the art and antiques market makes a significant contribution to the global economy by supporting a number of companies in the creative industries sector. furthermore, this market is valued at almost 12 billion dollars in 2012, considering that this is an important market in which artists and their heirs should benefit from a fair remuneration.
in writing. − we agree with the rapporteur that artistic creation makes a decisive contribution to the continuing development of cultural heritage. in this sense, the so-called right of succession by guaranteeing a percentage of the profit from the sale of the work of art to the artist ensures a continuity of remuneration for creators who very often sell their works at low prices at the beginning of their career. in this way, the right of succession for the benefit of the living author of an original work of art can be a useful tool to prevent artists from being discriminated against and not being properly compensated for their production. on this occasion, we cannot fail to defend the right to cultural creation and enjoyment - which is so much in question today in portugal - insofar as the production of art, especially by young artists, must be valued and publicly supported, and not only considered as a business opportunity.
in writing. - i approve this report as its main objective is to increase democratic accountability by introducing binding rules on negotiation in legislative procedures. this amendment, by giving the decision-making committee a negotiating mandate, and in terms of clear objective reports and a negotiating team led by the rapporteur, is setting a precedent which may prove to be essential in the democratic construction of the institutionalism of the european union, since it strengthens the role of the european parliament in the negotiations and thus further legitimises this institution, the only one with members elected directly by the citizens of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree to amend rule 70 of parliament's rules of procedure to make the procedures more efficient, more transparent and more inclusive by incorporating some key elements of the 'code of conduct for the negotiation of the ordinary legislative procedure'.
in writing. - the search for conciliation and interinstitutional solutions within the legislative process is natural. however, this desire for harmonization must not undermine the rules of democracy, nor deprive its representatives of the possibility of influencing and participating in that process and the citizens of the possibility of following its progress. i hope that the proposed amendment to rule 70 will ensure that these concerns about democracy and transparency are always taken into account and that the way in which the negotiating procedures are initiated and conducted reflects this.
in writing. - rule 70 of parliament's rules of procedure, on interinstitutional negotiations in legislative procedures, provides as follows: '1. negotiations with the other institutions for an agreement during the legislative procedure shall be conducted in accordance with the code of conduct for the negotiation of ordinary legislative procedures; 2. before entering into such negotiations, the committee responsible for the subject-matter shall, in principle, take a decision by a majority of its members and adopt a mandate, guidelines or priorities; if the negotiations lead to a compromise with the council after the committee has adopted the report, the committee shall in any event be consulted again before the vote in plenary.' the conference of committee chairmen, after extensive discussion and after receiving input from the secretaries-general of the political groups, asked the committee on constitutional affairs to review the above-mentioned article. whereas this proposal to amend rule 70 of the ep's rules of procedure aims to make the procedures 'more efficient, more transparent and more inclusive by incorporating some key elements of the code of conduct for the negotiation of the ordinary legislative procedure', i voted in favour.
in writing. - the amendments to the rules of procedure of the european parliament introduced by this report seek to legalise an interinstitutional negotiating process which has been abused and which is in the interests of the major political groups: the right and the social democrats. the concertation between these forces undermines the transparency of the discussion processes. this is not a democratic change in the way parliament works - which would be very necessary - but rather a change in the rules of procedure which, among other things, allows, where the committee responsible deems it duly justified, for negotiations to begin before the report has been adopted by the committee responsible. in other words, negotiations are started in the trilogue without groups like ours having had the opportunity to put forward any proposals. the big groups are in agreement, everything is moving forward. this is an amendment which limits the ability of groups like ours to intervene, propose and denounce, breaking with this consensus which also dominates the other eu institutions and which is, after all, responsible for the process of civilizational regression that is taking place in europe today.
in writing. − the revision of rule 70 aims to make the procedures more effective, more transparent and more inclusive by incorporating some key elements of the code of conduct for the negotiation of the ordinary legislative procedure into the binding part of the rules of procedure. these amendments make the legislative process more transparent, which is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the committee on constitutional affairs was asked by the conference of presidents of the european parliament to revise rule 70 of the rules of procedure with a view to making the procedures more effective, transparent and inclusive by incorporating some key elements of the code of conduct for the negotiation of the ordinary legislative procedure into the binding part of the rules of procedure, and in particular the parts on: the decision of a committee to open negotiations; the decision on the composition and mandate of the negotiating team; the regular provision of information to the committee concerned on the progress and outcome of the negotiations, including the agreement reached and the re-consultation of the committee on the agreed text, before the vote in plenary. the public nature of debates and votes is linked to democratic accountability: if voters cannot know what their elected representatives have said, and cannot know the meaning of their vote, they cannot hold them accountable in the next election. the transparency measures proposed here are to be commended and i have therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the amendment to rule 70 on interinstitutional negotiations in legislative procedures aims to increase transparency and accountability in order to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of the european parliament. it therefore introduces rules from the code of conduct and best practices into the rules of procedure, making them legally binding. the commission also wants to open negotiations before the report is adopted at first reading, by obtaining the approval of a political group or 40 meps. the justification for early voting shall be justified in the following cases: political priorities, controversy or technical document, in cases of emergency, position of a presidency. i am voting in favour of this proposal because i consider it important to open the negotiation process, thus reducing the democratic deficit which has so often been pointed out to the european parliament.
in writing. the amendments to the ep's rules of procedure introduced by this report aim to institutionalize an interinstitutional negotiating process which has been abused by the major political groups in the ep. in other words, negotiations are started in the trilogue without groups like ours the gue/ngl having had the opportunity to submit any proposals. the amendment to the ep's rules of procedure is therefore intended to limit the ability of those who are at odds with the ep's majority to intervene, propose and denounce. this attitude is in contrast to all the marketing that has been done around the growing democratic nature of the european institutions.
in writing. - i approve of this report which stresses the importance of limiting the current dual system (translation and interpretation). the cost of maintaining this system is eur 8,6 million per year. in view of the economic crisis and given that most member states and the eu in general are suffering from high costs arising from the implementation of measures for the necessary consolidation of their public accounts and sustainable balance of their budgets, it is important that the brussels bureaucratic machine also offers solutions for a more rigorous management of resources, without compromising the effectiveness of its services and preserving the rights of workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its assumptions of respect for the principle of multilingualism and of making efforts to achieve greater budgetary and resource savings.
in writing. − the present economic and financial needs of the european union must not leave its institutions out of the picture. i believe, however, that the end of the existence of a full report of the sessions in the official languages of the union impoverishes european democracy and calls into question the equality between member states and the commitment to multilingualism which has always been seen as a necessary cost of integration. without a full report of the sessions in their own language, the right of all citizens to follow the work of all members during plenary sessions and to fully understand the debates and exchanges of views taking place there is no longer assured. i do not think it is fair or conducive to a greater identification of citizens with the union. i think that parliament would be better off if it promoted the concentration of parliamentary work, saving many millions of euros a year by doing so.
in writing. - mr stanimir ilchev has presented a report on the amendment of rule 181 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament (pe) as regards the full report of the proceedings and rule 182 on audiovisual recording. notwithstanding rule 146 (1) of the rules of procedure, which provides that 'all parliament documents shall be written in the official languages', in january 2012 the president, in order to respect the commitments made by the ep in respect of the 2012 budget, informed the committee on constitutional affairs that the bureau had decided to limit the translation of the full minutes of the sittings to the member states (ms) following their efforts to contain expenditure. i agree with the rapporteur when he says that 'translating the full report into only one language would create a hierarchy between the official languages of the european union and thus call into question the principle of multilingualism'. i am in favour of more efficient use of the new technologies which enable multilingual broadcasting and therefore voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the aim of this report is to end with the full report of each session, drawn up in all the official eu languages. instead, there will be only one multilingual report with all the interventions in their original language. we are facing another setback in respect for the principle of multilingualism. this is an attack on the right of citizens, of all citizens, to be able to read the debates of the european parliament in their own language. the possibility of translating an extract from the full report into any official language at the request of a member only partially mitigates this backlog. this decision, supported by the majority of parliament under the pretext of cost containment, is one of a series of other cuts in translation and interpretation costs which have been made, affecting parliamentary work and discriminating unacceptably against members on the basis of their national origin. in addition, jobs in translation and interpretation services are being reduced and precarious employment relations in this field are being promoted, which also affects the quality of services.
in writing. - the budgetary constraints to which we are all subject sometimes mean that we have to make certain choices. although i do not agree with the proposed amendments, i believe that they are necessary at this time of economic crisis.
in writing. − the limitations to the current dual system (translation and interpretation) approved by this report do not call into question the principle of multilingualism. in the context of the current economic climate, and taking into account the commitments made by parliament in the 2012 budgetary procedure, the proposed restrictions are understandable. it is therefore decided that the erc full court report will have all contributions in their original language only, without any translation being automatically provided into a single language, and will remain a multilingual document only. the preparation of the full report in the original language only actually results in greater budgetary and resource savings, as was its objective, and apparently respects the principle of multilingualism. i cannot, however, fail to point out that this is the first, and i hope the only, exception to the rule that all speeches in the european parliament must be translated into the 23 eu languages. it is worth noting that current technology provides all citizens with an audiovisual record of the sessions with interpretation in all the official languages, not only immediately after the session, but also in real time. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - in accordance with rule 181 of parliament's rules of procedure, a full translation of the report should be made into all the official languages. however, in the light of the economic situation which is leading to cuts in parliament's budget, this report seeks to limit the dual system of translation and interpretation. furthermore, rule 182 of the rules of procedure, which makes available to the public on the internet an audiovisual record of the sittings with interpretation in all the official languages, will remain available and accessible through new technologies allowing multilingual web viewing, providing the possibility of accessing all plenary speeches by speaker. i am voting in favour of this report, as it does not call into question the multilingualism which is the basis of the european project, 'united in diversity'.
in writing. - what has been agreed here the replacement of the full report of each part-session, drawn up in all the official languages, by a multilingual report in which all speeches will appear in their original language does not respect the principle of multilingualism and constitutes a step backwards in terms of the rights of citizens to be able to read the ep debates in their own language. this is yet another sign of disrespect for the linguistic, cultural and identity differences between the various member states. the path of financial cuts and job cuts means a huge loss of service quality and a step away from the various eu nationalities.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering it essential to simplify the current regulatory framework and the need to establish new technical and administrative requirements in the interests of rationality, clarity and simplification. this new framework will meet the needs of the present day, both in terms of better monitoring of the market, emission levels and the level of safety, which in my view is a fundamental issue for this type of vehicle, by making abs systems compulsory on new motorcycles up to 50 cc. i think the efforts to be highlighted are those which respect safety parameters for road users and the lowest carbon emissions from these vehicles, thus achieving a broader objective of environmental protection while ensuring the best functioning of the internal market.
in writing. − on 4 december 2010, the european commission (ec) adopted a proposal for a regulation on the type-approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. this range of vehicles is covered by the l category, which is estimated to have more than 30 million of these vehicles on the road in the eu. the aim of the proposal is to simplify the current legal framework and to lay down new administrative and technical requirements, in particular as regards environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance. i support the main objectives proposed by the regulation, as they improve the functioning of the internal market and protect the main interests of the public. some amendments are advocated, such as a simpler and more transparent implementation timetable; the commission is also proposing to introduce a new system of emission limits for motorcycles, which would be more effective in reducing emissions and would also make it possible to reduce emissions from road transport.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the objectives of simplifying the current legal framework and establishing new administrative and technical requirements, including respect for environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it contributes to the more efficient functioning of the internal market for two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles, while also protecting the main interests of users. the proposed requirements for 'l' category vehicles can also contribute to the transition towards more efficient, safe and clean urban mobility.
in writing. − the simplification of european legislation on such vehicles and the improvement of their safety are objectives which should be welcomed. i believe that in times of crisis we should not be tempted to make it too easy for vehicles without safety features to move, but we should also not burden consumers too much with unnecessary or irrelevant requirements. i hope that the new measures will help to improve the approval and market surveillance of two- and three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles and will allow greater mobility and safety. i would like the new rules to allow european traders and manufacturers to maintain market shares and even to increase existing jobs.
in writing. − two-wheelers are the main cause of deaths on european roads, estimated at over 60% of the total, although they account for only 2% of total kilometres travelled. in addition, they are considered the most polluting vehicles. the report by wim van de camp focuses on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the typeapproval and testing of two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. i welcome the new proposal for a regulation which simplifies the existing regulatory framework by introducing significant improvements which will make new two- or three-wheel and four-wheel vehicles less polluting, have more efficient safety systems (especially with regard to braking and lighting), while giving companies a period to adapt to the new rules. i welcome the adoption of this text, which i voted in favour of, which aims to reduce the number of road deaths, and i welcome the introduction of technical innovations that improve safety such as abs.
in writing. the proposal for a regulation aims at the approval and supervision of the two- or three-wheeled vehicle and quadricycle markets, with the aim of improving the functioning of the internal market and its supervision. the rapporteur believes that with the present proposal the commission intends to simplify the current legal framework and to establish new administrative and technical requirements, for example with regard to environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance.' we value the introduction of environmental requirements for l-category vehicles and support the introduction of stricter emission limits as well as the introduction of safety measures associated with the technical characteristics of vehicles such as the mandatory introduction of anti-lock braking systems (abs) on all new motorcycles. the other points made in the report on agricultural and forestry tractors are equally valid.
in writing. - i support the adoption of new rules to strengthen safety and environmental requirements for motorcycles, mopeds, scooters, four-wheelers and all-terrain vehicles, as these, although representing only 2% of the total number of kilometres travelled, are responsible for 16% of deaths on european roads.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the objectives of the proposed regulation, as it improves the functioning of the internal market and protects the main interests of the public, namely more effective supervision of the european market. in addition, the proposed requirements for l-category vehicles can facilitate the transition to more efficient, safe and clean urban mobility with clear benefits for society. the new measures to promote access to vehicle repair and maintenance information should be highlighted.
in writing. − on 4 december 2010, the european commission (ec) adopted a proposal for a regulation on the type-approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. this range of vehicles, estimated at over 30 million units in circulation, is covered by category l. the aim of the proposal is to simplify the current legal framework and to lay down new administrative and technical requirements, in particular as regards environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance. i voted in favour of the regulation because i agree with the main objectives of the regulation and also with the main amendments introduced by the rapporteur.
in writing. − this proposal for a regulation aims to simplify the current legal framework by incorporating framework directive 2002/24/ec and 14 other related directives into a single proposal for a regulation, and to establish new administrative and technical requirements in the area of safety and the environment. this legal clarity will improve the functioning of the internal market and at the same time protect industry and consumers. i therefore agree with the rapporteur's proposal for a calendar, as it will allow industry and national administrations to adapt to the new requirements.
in writing. the aim of this proposal for a regulation on the approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles is to improve the functioning of the internal market and its surveillance. the rapporteur believes that the commission's current proposal aims to simplify the current legal framework and to introduce new administrative and technical requirements, for example with regard to environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance. we have no doubt that the strengthening and deepening of the internal market in this sector will lead to the creation of monopolies in this sector and to the benefit of the larger companies and the stronger economies. however, we would like to point out that the rapporteur is introducing, in a positive way, environmental requirements for l-category vehicles, is supporting the introduction of stricter emission limits and is introducing safety measures associated with the technical characteristics of vehicles, such as the mandatory introduction of anti-lock braking systems (abs) on all new motorcycles.
in writing. - i approve this report, since it proposes the harmonisation at european union level of the technical requirements for the approval of agricultural tractors with regard to numerous environmental and safety elements, in order to ensure a high level of road and occupational safety for this type of transport, as well as high standards of environmental protection. in my view, the harmonization and updating of technical rules and parameters for agricultural vehicles is a means of strengthening occupational and functional safety for their users and workers, as well as ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market and increasing the competitiveness of the whole of european industry.
in writing. the proposal submitted by the european commission (ec) aims to harmonise standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles, thus ensuring the functioning of the internal market and providing for a high level of safety. the proposed regulation will simplify the existing typeapproval legislation considerably by replacing 24 basic directives and some 35 related amending directives. the commission proposal is welcomed as it contributes to the competitiveness of the sector by simplifying the existing type-approval legislation. it is important to strengthen the requirements for bodies and organisations to which member states may delegate certain evaluation tasks in order to ensure a level playing field and to avoid distortions in this area. the committee also stresses the need for a balance in the provision of vehicle repair and maintenance information, ensuring that access to technical information is provided in a comprehensive manner and that it takes account of consumer protection and fair competition, as well as concerns relating to safety, environmental protection and intellectual property. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the aim of simplifying considerably the existing legislation while maintaining harmonised standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment), with a view to ensuring the functioning of the internal market and, at the same time, providing for a high level of road safety and safety at work and environmental protection.
in writing. − unfortunately, accidents involving agricultural and forestry vehicles are not uncommon in the news, and particular attention should be paid to their safety and their environmental impact. combined with means of locomotion and work tools, these vehicles have undergone significant improvements in comfort and manoeuvrability in recent years. as with other types of vehicle, i believe that in times of crisis we should not be tempted to make it too easy for vehicles without safety features to move, but we should also not burden consumers too much with unnecessary or irrelevant requirements. the harmonisation of the rules for the manufacture of these vehicles can have a positive impact on the safety and well-being of rural populations. i hope so.
in writing. the report on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the typeapproval of agricultural and forestry tractors, drawn up by mr pier antonio panzeri, is of great importance not only because the new regulation will simplify the existing legislative framework by replacing 24 directives, but also because it will help to improve environmental quality and reduce the so-called greenhouse effect. the new regulation, with new technical rules at european level, will improve the safety of these vehicles (including protection against electric shock), and will make the european market much more competitive, balanced and transparent. i voted in favour of this text because it reflects excellent work, both from a technical and political point of view, not forgetting the time needed for companies in the sector to adapt to a new production cycle. it also represents a major step forward in terms of regulatory simplification and a further step in the consolidation of the internal market.
in writing. the european commission's proposal aims to establish harmonised standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) with a view to achieving a high level of road safety and occupational safety and ensuring environmental protection. the proposed regulation simplifies existing typeapproval legislation considerably, replacing 24 basic directives (and some 35 related amending directives). we value the steps taken both in the field of road safety and in environmental protection. however, we have some reservations and disagreements with the underlying view, as a general rule, of harmonization aimed at the completion of the internal market and the promotion of competitiveness in the internal market.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to establish harmonised standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) with a view to ensuring the functioning of the internal market and, at the same time, providing for a high level of road safety and occupational safety, without forgetting environmental protection. the proposed regulation simplifies existing typeapproval legislation considerably, replacing 24 basic directives (and some 35 related amending directives). that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council, adopted at first reading, on the reception of agricultural or forestry tractors, since it aims to establish rules for the harmonization of administrative and technical requirements for the reception and market surveillance of agricultural and forestry vehicles and also defines the requirements for the placing on the market or entry into service of systems, components and separate technical units intended for these same vehicles. the harmonization of rules in the european union is fundamental to its internal market.
in writing. the proposal submitted by the european commission (ec) aims to harmonise standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles, thus ensuring the functioning of the internal market and providing for a high level of safety. the proposed regulation will simplify the existing typeapproval legislation considerably, replacing 24 basic directives and some 35 related amending directives. the rapporteur welcomes the commission proposal as it contributes to the competitiveness of the sector by simplifying existing type-approval legislation, advocating some additional measures aimed, for example, at strengthening the requirements for bodies and organisations to which member states may delegate some assessment functions, ensuring that access to technical information is provided in a comprehensive manner and taking into account consumer protection and fair competition, and addressing concerns about safety, environmental protection and intellectual property. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this proposal will harmonise typeapproval for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles, including tractors, trailers and towed equipment, by simplifying the 24 basic directives and 35 related amending directives into a single regulation. a proposal that aims at the competitiveness of the sector, without reducing the level of road and occupational safety, environmental performance and attention to the transformation of the industry itself, which is mainly composed of smes.
in writing. − the purpose of this european commission proposal is to establish harmonised standards for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market and, at the same time, to provide for a high level of road safety and occupational safety and to ensure environmental protection. the proposed regulation thus considerably simplifies existing legislation on typeapproval, replacing 24 basic directives (and some 35 related amending directives). in general, this proposal for a regulation is another step towards the completion of the internal market, towards harmonization, under the pretext of promoting the competitiveness of the sector by simplifying the existing typeapproval legislation and thus, in reality, causing the monopoly of the production of these vehicles by certain companies and countries. however, the rapporteur does introduce the issue of road safety and environmental protection in a positive way, which we would like to stress.
in writing. - i approve this report because, although card payments are already widely used by the general population, this market is still fragmented across europe and, on the other hand, the potential of electronic or mobile commerce still needs a major boost. the development of a card payment system and electronic payments (internet and telephone) should be based on a high level of consumer protection. consumer confidence is a key condition for the development of electronic and card payments. i therefore believe that the european union must develop a coherent legal framework which ensures more competition, more transparency and more security. by addressing my main concerns as a european citizen, namely by focusing on the issues of interoperability between the different systems, more transparent pricing of card payments for consumers and enhanced security of card and electronic payment systems, i think we are moving towards a system that is more attractive to all europeans.
in writing. − the european commission has published a green paper on the integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments, which identifies a number of obstacles to the european payments market functioning as efficiently, openly and integrated as possible. the benefits of creating a more integrated payments market are vast. it creates a market for more convenient, secure, fast and efficient payments, with the potential to generate direct and indirect benefits estimated at €300 billion over the next 6 years. the market is still very fragmented in the eu, and the european commission has proposed the creation of a single euro payments area (sepa) which, by establishing common rules in the different member states, will eliminate the gap between national and cross-border payments. in the construction of sepa, several elements of card payment are taken into account, from multilateral interbank fees, the existence of common technical and security standards, etc. internet and mobile payments should be lighter regulated, as it is a market still in the process of evolution and innovation. i voted in favour of this report, since it proposes measures which will clearly benefit the functioning of these markets.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the aim of improving the integration of markets and promoting competition between the various card payment systems, taking into account the need for common technical and security standards that make card payment a simpler, safer and more efficient option for consumers.
in writing. − last january, the european commission published a green paper on the integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments, which identifies a number of obstacles to the functioning of this market. following up on this green paper, the european parliament now presents this own-initiative report, the general tone of which agrees with the ideas proposed by the commission. there are many advantages to creating a more integrated and efficient payments market, which will objectively make payments more convenient, secure and fast, and could generate direct/indirect benefits estimated at eur 300 billion over the next 6 years. the green paper therefore contains proposals to improve the integration of markets and to promote competition between payment systems. the report adopted today, which i voted in favour of, stresses the imperative of deepening the single euro payments area (sepa) and the need to improve its governance (along with the importance of the forthcoming revision of the payment services directive). but like the rapporteur, i think we should focus at this stage on card payments and specifically on the following aspects: standardisation, crossborder purchases, multilateral interbank rates (mit), the principle of 'co-badging', surcharges and payment security.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it sets out measures to remove a number of obstacles which still exist in the european payments market. the card payment markets are still very fragmented in the eu and further work is needed to make card payments as efficient and as effective as possible.
in writing. − this report, in response to the european commission's green paper, aims to analyse the obstacles to card, internet and mobile payments. as regards card payments, for example, although there are already 32 countries using the single euro payments area (sepa) system, the truth is that this is still a very fragmented market where much remains to be achieved to achieve its full efficiency. there are a number of factors that can help to improve competition in this market and thus optimise its efficiency, including through multilateral exchange rates, surcharges and payment security. finally, i agree with the rapporteur's conclusion that this market is still in full development.
in writing. − the current payments market is very diverse and uses methods ranging from card to mobile to internet. however, the most important thing is that all forms of payment are more citizen-friendly, making life easier for citizens wherever they are. the full functioning of the european digital market means that this process is as simple as possible - if complicated, no one wants it - low cost and secure. this requires removing all obstacles to a more competitive, innovative and secure market. given that there are still major differences in the functioning of this member state (ms) market for ms, harmonisation should be the first step. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr sampo terho on the subject 'towards an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments', because it is essential that we move quickly towards a single market for payments which makes life easier for citizens and brings more security.
in writing. − increasing free competition in the card, internet and mobile payment markets is the objective set out in this report. it is the application of neoliberalism to this segment of the market to increase consumption, credit and indebtedness of workers and the general population. in a context of economic recession, this proposal is inseparable from efforts to deepen the internal market by removing the capacity of member states to intervene in the market and the logic of providing services according to national circumstances that still exists. the report even advocates self-regulation by the parties concerned. as regards the application of fees by banks for the use of cards, the report is contradictory, advocating their maintenance at least until 2017. respect for privacy is not guaranteed and doubts remain about the use of personal and profile data of citizens, as well as about the costs of adapting all terminals to accept all cards and comply with interoperability requirements. we voted against it.
in writing. − the variety of payment instruments has been steadily increasing, both in europe and worldwide. although new forms of mobile and internet payments are emerging every day, attracting both consumers and businesses, the card payment market is still far from having developed all its potential and reached its maximum efficiency. common technical and security standards could facilitate the entry of new players, promote the use of card payments and make card payments a simpler, safer and more efficient option for consumers. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − this report proposes measures which appear to benefit the functioning of the integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments. the various obstacles to the european payments market functioning as efficiently, openly and integrated as possible have been identified in the green paper on an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments. the study concludes that the benefits of creating a more integrated payments market are vast. this will create a market with more convenient, secure, fast and efficient payments, and could generate direct and indirect benefits estimated at €300 billion over the next 6 years. as this market is still very fragmented at european level, the european commission has proposed the creation of a single euro payments area (sepa) which, by establishing common rules in the different member states, will make it possible to eliminate the gaps between national and cross-border payments. in agreeing with these measures, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the report responds to the commission's green paper on the integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments by paying particular attention to card payments and the following aspects: standardisation, cross-border purchases, multilateral interbank rates (mit), the principle of 'co-badging', surcharges and payment security. the document also stresses that the sepa (single euro payments area) council should benefit from the advice of various technical committees, or specialised groups for electronic and mobile payments, cards, cash and other standardisation issues, as well as ad hoc working groups, and that any standardisation requirements should not impose unnecessary barriers. the report also notes that common standards should be sought at global level in close cooperation with economic partners. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the body.
in writing. the european commission has published a green paper on the integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments, which identifies a number of obstacles to its normal functioning, in particular with regard to its efficiency, openness and integration. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that there are several advantages associated with the creation of an integrated payments market and that it is therefore necessary to create a single euro payments area (sepa) which establishes common rules for the different member states. finally, i would point out that a market with more convenient, secure, fast and efficient payments could generate direct and indirect benefits estimated at eur 300 billion over the next six years.
in writing. − increasing free competition in the card, internet and mobile payment markets is the objective supported by this report. it is the application of neoliberalism to this segment of the market to increase consumption, credit and the indebtedness of workers and peoples. in a context of economic recession, this proposal is inseparable from efforts to deepen the internal market by removing the capacity of member states to intervene in the market and the logic of providing services according to national circumstances that still exists. the report even advocates self-regulation by the parties concerned. to achieve this market, all terminals need to be adapted to accept all cards and meet interoperability requirements. who will pay for the replacement of the existing terminals with new ones? the answer is obvious: it will be smes (which make up more than 90% of enterprises in the eu member states) that will pay this over-cost to banks and network operators. as regards the application of fees by banks for the use of cards, the report is contradictory, advocating their maintenance at least until 2017. respect for privacy is not guaranteed and doubts remain about the use of personal and profile data of citizens.
in writing. - i approve this report. parallel banks and regular banks, although interconnected, have very complicated, opaque and potentially systemic risks. i therefore believe that there is a need for greater monitoring and identification of their systemic risks. in my view, a comprehensive approach to shadow banking is needed to capture risk transfers and ensure consumer protection. i also think we should ensure that no actor and no instrument remains outside the regulatory radar. we must fight for fairer, more stable and more efficient financial markets.
in writing. − since the financial crisis began in 2007, the g20 has decided to take a number of regulatory measures to make the financial system safer and more sustainable. much legislation has been developed within the financial sector, but the shadow banking system has fallen behind the developments in the rest of the financial system, remaining outside the regulatory perimeter. the european commission has therefore launched a green paper which opens up the debate on the regulation of this sector, which involves activities such as repurchase transactions, securities lending and securitisation operations. the activity of the shadow banking system can create a lot of instability in financial markets if it is not regulated and supervised and in this regard the commission is committed to producing guidelines that increase the full transparency of the activities of this sector and keep under control the potential for increased systemic risk. the european commission is also urged to set up mechanisms to better analyse risk transfer in the financial sector. i voted in favour of this report because it is clear that there is a need to establish rules to supervise and define the rules for the functioning of the shadow banking system and to support greater stability, soundness and transparency of the financial system.
in writing. − since the financial crisis began in 2007, the g20 has decided to take a number of regulatory measures to make the financial system safer and more sustainable. among other measures, capital requirements for financial institutions were tightened, a first step towards stricter regulation of credit rating agencies was taken and a new architecture for financial supervision was developed. despite these new regulatory frameworks, or perhaps because of them, a large part of the intermediation of credit operations remains insufficiently monitored and regulated. thus, the shadow banking system operates through financial entities or contracts that create a combination of functions identical to those of banks but outside the scope of regulation, or in a regulatory framework that is weak or addresses issues other than systemic risks, with no access to central bank liquidity facilities or credit guarantees offered by the public sector. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to promote better monitoring and regulation of the shadow banking system.
in writing. - the concept of 'shadow banking' does not necessarily derive from an unregulated or illegal aspect of the financial sector. however, their innovative nature may constitute a systemic risk to taxpayers and the financial system. all their harmful practices must therefore be eliminated to ensure financial stability. given that some of the components of the shadow banking system are central to the financing of the real economy, it is important to define the scope of new or existing regulatory measures. it is therefore absolutely vital that there should be cooperation on a global scale in order to achieve full transparency of the phenomenon of the shadow banking system. a comprehensive view and more effective monitoring will enable supervisors to know the level of repurchase agreements, securities lending and all charges and mechanisms of institutions. i therefore call for a rational and comprehensive approach to regulation in line with the recommendations of the financial stability board.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates greater supervision of the activity of financial institutions, which perform functions similar to those of banks but are not subject to banking regulation and which raise concerns about systemic risk and improper practices. the shadow banking system is only beneficial to the real economy if there is transparency and if the risks of a systemic crisis have been mitigated.
in writing. − since the financial crisis began in 2007, a number of financial regulatory instruments have been adopted. however, there is a large part of it which is still outside the legislative sphere, namely the so-called shadow banking system, which operates through financial entities or contracts which create a combination of functions identical to those of banks. however, these are outside the scope of regulation, or in a regulatory framework that is weak or addresses issues other than systemic risks. i therefore support the rapporteur's conclusions, namely that instruments should be created to allow the supervision of this sector, and the ecb could play an important role in this respect, and that the possibility of creating a public body to supervise the sector should be considered.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis is largely the result of the malfunctioning of the banking system which, lacking strict supervision and controls, took advantage of speculative processes and subsequently led to a chain of bank failures and corporate failures. the parallel banking system, being outside the sector, does not respect market rules and may jeopardise the functioning of a company. we need instruments that allow us to have a deep insight into the sector, to stimulate it and, above all, to control it so that what has happened does not happen again. to do this, we need fully functioning supervisory mechanisms, which should have a central register of purchase certificates. i voted in favour of the report by mr saïd el khadraoui on the shadow banking system, which in 2010 generated some eur 46 trillion, whose contagion is enormous and could endanger world finance, because it is essential to create mechanisms to prevent harmful contagion from the regulated banking system.
in writing. - according to the report, the shadow banking system represents 25-30% of the total financial system and half of the banks' assets. few practices of this system have disappeared since 2008. the report points out the dependence of the normal banking sector on the shadow system and that it may threaten the stability of the financial system. it is even recognised that it is impossible to regulate, assess and audit when credit risk distortions or cash flow changes are caused. the report is a good one, but the proposals made in the report, pretending that something has to change, leave everything the same. the problem is not in alleged excesses in the functioning of the shadow banking system, but in its very existence and essence, which is purely speculative. this is a system dominated by large investment banks with financial instruments in their portfolios which exceed several times the gdp of some countries (even the so-called rich countries) and which have developed the most speculative instruments, in particular with the public debts of the states. a system that uses the surplus value created in the productive sphere (by the workers) to create instruments (papers) that sells and resells, and then passes the bill to the workers and the people when in the speculation chain someone does not pay.
in writing. - the shadow banking system is a reality that needs to be better understood in order to be better regulated and adapted to the needs of society. the 2007 financial crisis showed how urgent it is to bring this sector under the thumb of regulators. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a contribution, albeit a modest one, to the pursuit of this objective.
in writing. − with the onset of the financial crisis in 2007, the g20 decided to take a series of regulatory measures to make the financial system safer and more sustainable. since then, among many other measures, capital requirements for financial institutions have been tightened, a first step towards stricter regulation of credit rating agencies has been taken and a new architecture for financial supervision has been developed. despite these new regulatory frameworks, or perhaps because of them, a large part of the intermediation of credit operations remains insufficiently monitored and regulated. it is urgent to continue to work towards regulating them so that they do not contribute to a new crisis.
in writing. − the activity of the shadow banking system can create many risks and instability in financial markets if it is not regulated and supervised and, in this regard, the commission, which presented its conclusions in the green paper on the subject, is committed to producing guidelines that increase the total transparency of the activities of this sector and keep under control the potential for increased systemic risk. in this report, the european commission is urged to create mechanisms to better analyse risk transfer in the financial sector. i voted in favour of this report because i clearly believe that it is necessary to establish rules to supervise and define the rules for the functioning of the shadow banking system and to support greater stability, soundness and transparency of the financial system.
in writing. − since the financial crisis began in 2007, the g20 has decided to take a number of regulatory measures to make the financial system safer and more sustainable. much legislation has been developed within the financial sector, but the shadow banking system has fallen behind the developments in the rest of the financial system, remaining outside the regulatory perimeter. the european commission has therefore launched a green paper which opens up the debate on the regulation of this sector, which involves activities such as repurchase transactions, securities lending and securitisation operations. the activity of the shadow banking system can create many risks and instability in financial markets if it is not regulated and supervised and, in this regard, the commission is committed to producing guidelines that increase the full transparency of the activities of this sector and keep under control the potential for increased systemic risk. the report also calls on the european commission to create mechanisms to better analyse risk transfer in the financial sector. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a clear need to establish rules to supervise and define the rules for the functioning of the shadow banking system and to support greater stability, soundness and transparency of the financial system.
in writing. − a shadow banking system is understood as "a system of financial intermediaries, instruments, entities or contracts generating a combination of functions similar to those of banks but outside the regulatory perimeter, or under a regulatory regime that is light or addresses issues other than systemic risks, and without access to central bank liquidity facilities or public sector credit guarantees". the financial stability board has presented a green paper on shadow banking which focuses on the potential risks of shadow banking and how the issue could be addressed from a regulatory perspective. i agree with this report which calls on the european commission to regulate effectively and efficiently the shadow banking system which in 2011 reached an overall size of eur 51 billion, equivalent to 25%-30% of the total financial system and half of the banks' assets.
in writing. the report recognises that the shadow banking system represents 25-30% of the total financial system and half of banks' assets. acknowledges that few practices of this system have disappeared since 2008, the dependence of the normal banking sector on the shadow system and that it may threaten the stability of the financial system; it is even recognised that it is impossible to regulate, assess and audit when credit risk distortions or cash flow changes are caused. most people just act like they're gonna change everything to keep it the same. it is trying to make us believe that the problem lies in the operation of the shadow banking system, in its excesses, and not in its very existence. but it is in their existence and their purely speculative nature that the problem lies. this is a system dominated by large investment banks with financial instruments in their portfolios which exceed several times the gdp of some countries (even the so-called rich countries) and which have developed the most speculative instruments, in particular with the public debts of the states. a system that uses the surplus value created in the productive sphere to create instruments (papers) that sells and resells, and then passes the bill to the workers and the people when in the speculation chain someone does not pay.
in writing. - i approve this report. a common effort at eu level is needed to make social networks more secure, to deal with cases of content and payment blocking and the very fragmentation of the market due to unilateral actions by individual member states. i therefore believe that action at european level is needed, based on the best practices of the member states, to achieve economies of scale and the development of ict to make the use of the digital world safer for children. i think it is essential that there should be an educational alliance between the family, the school, civil society and industry. only a combination of legal, technical and educational means can prevent and meet the dangers that children face in the digital world.
in writing. - european young people spend approximately 40 hours a week in front of the television and about 88 minutes a day on the internet, which is the real companion of young people, often more than their own family, school and friends. internet users are exposed to a number of risks, including privacy breaches, health risks, addiction and distorted perceptions of reality. it is clear that parents and teachers find it difficult to accompany young people in the positive discovery of the digital world. it is essential to strengthen access to and education about conventional and modern media; protection, distinguishing between combating illegal content and fighting inappropriate content and conduct; protection of privacy and the right of reply; and digital citizenship. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - young europeans spend approximately 40 hours a week watching television. they are connected to the internet for about eighty-eight minutes a day (two hours for the 15-16 age group), starting on average at the age of nine. the most inexperienced and naive internet users - and this may include children - in cases where browsing is not informed, protected and controlled, are subject to various risks, including the violation of privacy, the commercial or instrumental use of their profiles, health risks, addiction, a distorted relationship with reality and their own identity. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the member states must make greater efforts to protect children in the digital world, in particular by mastering their codes, which are essential for the exercise of full and active citizenship, in order to give european citizens the opportunity to benefit from the cultural and economic dimension of all types of media associated with digital technology and to contribute to the pursuit of the objectives of the lisbon treaty, fostering the emergence of a knowledge-based economy and encouraging competition.
in writing. − i have no doubt about the many opportunities for education and learning that the digital world can offer children and young people. however, the pace of adaptation in the education sector is completely out of step with the technological changes in the lives of children. the rapid evolution of technologies thus requires equally rapid and effective responses, including through the adoption of an effective child protection strategy. we need to focus on prevention, helping young people, families and schools to become aware of the potential dangers they face online. we need to combat effectively all types of illegal content online, but also other threats such as harassment, discrimination, bullying, privacy violations, etc. given the strong and reinforced commitment to the defence of the rights of the child in the lisbon treaty and the charter of fundamental rights, we need to go one step further and turn general objectives into concrete actions. i therefore support the creation of a framework directive that integrates and regulates all matters relating to the protection of children in the digital world, and a multi-level governance that promotes a harmonised approach in the member states and encourages stronger coordination between them and the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that investment in the education of young people is necessary, by training them and teaching them to deal with the digital world. parents are not always able to keep up with the changes brought about by technological innovations in children, hence the need to implement a european programme to ensure safer use of the internet.
in writing. - according to the report, young europeans spend approximately 40 hours a week watching television and about 88 minutes a day on the internet. although the use of digital media is today a fundamental tool for learning and information, the truth is that the internet presents numerous risks and threats, especially for younger users: violation of privacy, commercial or instrumental use of their profiles, health risks, addiction phenomena, distorted relationship with reality and their own identity and sexual exploitation and child pornography. as a parent, i know how difficult the task of parental control of the use of computer media is, and i therefore consider it essential that a framework of rights and governance be established which resolves the fragmentation of provisions on the protection of children in the digital world, which currently exists in the field of human rights, privacy protection, the fight against sexual abuse, audiovisual media services and electronic commerce, as proposed by the rapporteur.
in writing. a great portuguese writer wrote that 'the best thing in the world are children'. in this sense, everything we can do to protect them from the evils of the society in which they are inserted must be done. the advent of the internet age has brought many dangers to its users, especially to children and young people for whom it is often a second home. fifteen percent of internet users between the ages of 10 and 17 have been invited to a sexual activity. in addition, there are abuses of sexual exploitation and pornography that urgently need to be addressed. the creation of legal certainty for internet users is therefore of the utmost urgency. we all remember the recent images of a young woman who committed suicide as a victim of sexual harassment and cyberbullying. the protection of children is an imperative of european society which must take appropriate measures to achieve this protection. i voted in favour of the report by mrs silvia costa on the protection of children in the digital world because it promotes responsible digital citizenship, raising awareness among parents and educators of the need to train and inform their children about the dangers of uncontrolled use of the internet.
in writing. − the report highlights three main elements in protecting children in the digital world: education for conventional and modern social education means, privacy protection (fighting illegal content and fighting inappropriate content and behaviour) and the right of reply and digital citizenship. it is known that the average child spends about an hour and a half a day on the internet. the risks are many and varied, especially to health. we share many of the concerns in the report, but we have reservations about the prohibitions to be implemented, proposed by the rapporteur. in particular, restrictions on freedom of expression and disregard for privacy and data protection are not justified. the safer internet programme (computer crime control and information exchange) should not affect these rights, which we believe are not guaranteed. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules and will continue to monitor the implementation of the new rules.
in writing. - according to studies, young europeans spend about 40 hours a week watching television and about 88 minutes a day on the internet. while we can all agree that the use of digital media is nowadays an important tool for learning and information, the truth is that it also carries various risks and threats, especially for young people. monitoring use on young people is difficult, so i agree with the search for a legislative framework that safeguards rights and maintains governance that is concerned with the current fragmentation of provisions on the protection of children and young people in the digital world. that's why i'm in favour.
in writing. - there is a real need for greater protection in the digital world. this report was prepared on the basis of information provided by member states in response to a questionnaire. young europeans spend approximately 40 hours a week in front of the television and about 88 minutes a day on the internet, which is the real companion of young people, often more than their own family, school and friends. it concludes that it is essential to strengthen education on conventional and modern media. i support the rapporteur in her desire to strengthen education about conventional and modern media and the protection of users, distinguishing between the fight against illegal content and the fight against inappropriate content and conduct, the protection of privacy and the right of reply and digital citizenship. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it also contributes to the pursuit of the objectives of the lisbon treaty by promoting the emergence of a knowledge-based economy.
in writing. − this report focuses on the need for greater protection in the digital world and was drawn up on the basis of information provided by member states in response to a questionnaire. young europeans spend approximately 40 hours a week in front of the television and about 88 minutes a day on the internet, exposing them to a variety of risks, including the violation of privacy, health risks, addiction and a distorted relationship with reality. it is clear that parents and teachers find it difficult to accompany young people in the positive discovery of the digital world. efforts are therefore needed to strengthen education on conventional and modern media, to combat illegal content and to combat inappropriate content and conduct, and to promote privacy protection, the right of reply and digital citizenship. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it contributes to the pursuit of the objectives of the lisbon treaty by encouraging the emergence of a knowledge-based economy and encouraging competition.
in writing. − the increasing use of the internet by young europeans requires the creation/promotion of mechanisms to protect children in the digital age. in view of the report by silvia costa, mep, which highlights the risks and harmful content to which children may be exposed when surfing the internet, i believe it is important to create a framework of rights and governance that addresses the fragmentation in the european union of provisions on the protection of children in the digital world. in addition to the creation of mechanisms to resolve the regulatory fragmentation in the eu, i also agree with the rapporteur on the need to continue the safer internet programme and to evaluate it for more effective and efficient implementation in the future.
in writing. − the report highlights three main elements in protecting children in the digital world: education for conventional and modern social education means, privacy protection and the right of reply and digital citizenship. in a matter as important as the protection of children in the digital world, it is worth mentioning the importance of the public service in ensuring a secure service and universal access, in combating digital exclusion. the average child spends 88 minutes a day on the internet and there are risks of privacy violations, commercial or instrumental use of profiles, health risks, the emergence of addiction phenomena and a distorted relationship with reality and their own identity. while this is obviously a matter of concern to us, we cannot fail to mention the reservations we have about the bans to be implemented, in the sense that they should not impose restrictions on the rights to freedom of expression and should respect privacy and data protection. in this sense, the safer internet programme (computer crime control and information exchange) should not affect these rights, which we consider to be not guaranteed.
in writing. - i approve this report, expressing my support for the development of social entrepreneurship in a time of economic and financial crisis, as this type of activity is a source of sustainable employment, social innovation and inclusion of vulnerable groups. i therefore call for adequate political and financial support for social enterprises. despite political and financial recognition through the inclusion of social enterprises in the social change and innovation programme as well as their inclusion in entrepreneurship funds, it is important to ensure that the definition of social enterprises is well defined and in line with the legislation already developed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its assumptions and consider the development of social entrepreneurship and the promotion of social enterprises to be important.
in writing. - social economy enterprises represent approximately 10% of all european enterprises, i.e. about 2 million enterprises, employing at least 11 million people in the eu. they are of fundamental importance for the structuring of the european social model and for the europe 2020 strategy. given that gradual and sustainable economic growth, increased and quality jobs and the fight against poverty are among the priorities of the single market and the europe 2020 strategy, it is advantageous to maximise the contribution of social enterprises. these companies will be able to respond positively to social, national and regional needs through their innovative potential, so social entrepreneurship needs additional support and financing instruments. social enterprises offer favourable working conditions, promote equal opportunities for men and women and seek to create a more active and cohesive society. i therefore call for simplification of eu funding, with funding opportunities being made available and announced in a timely manner, according to the flexibility appropriate to each member state.
in writing. − i consider important the commission's proposal to increase access to finance for social enterprises by establishing a regulatory framework applicable to the introduction of investment instruments at eu level. social enterprises have the potential to provide innovative answers to current social and economic problems and to make a significant contribution to job creation in the eu. a favourable and simplified regulatory framework should therefore be in place to promote the structural diversity of social enterprises, to respond to the specific nature of their activities and to provide more appropriate financial support for social entrepreneurship and social enterprises, in particular smes, promoting their growth and sustainability.
in writing. − heinz k. becker gives us a report on the social entrepreneurship initiative building an ecosystem to promote social enterprises at the heart of the economy and social innovation. i would like to start by recognising the work of all these institutions in minimising the negative impacts of the crisis - we know its consequences but we care little about the social problems - and the contribution they make to helping europe get out of it. these companies, whose aim is not immediate profit but the improvement of the living conditions of the most vulnerable, currently represent 6% of all workers in the european union, many of whom are young. the europe 2020 strategy should address the lack of social services in the face of ongoing demographic trends and an ageing population. this is a sector which deserves our full support and should therefore benefit from a special tax regime to facilitate access to finance. i voted in favour of this report because we are facing a special kind of entrepreneurship which not only promotes economic growth but also raises social concerns.
in writing. − the social entrepreneurship initiative (sbi), as conceived in this report, is an integral part of the single market and has the express aim of creating the right conditions to encourage eu industry to channel financial investment into social enterprises that are competitive and cross-border. we oppose this view. it is not just a question of defending a miraculous entrepreneurship as a panacea for the crisis, obscuring its real causes - the inequality in the distribution of wealth, the increase in the exploitation of labour, unemployment, recessionary policies. the report goes further and sees as positive the replacement of public services, which are people's rights, by services provided by these social enterprises, thus turning rights into business opportunities. in the meantime, precarious work is being promoted, and it is advocated that workers be placed on a voluntary basis, for the younger ones, who are starting their careers, and for the older ones, for the sharing of skills. this is unacceptable. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − this commission proposal is relevant to facilitate and increase the possibility of financing for companies engaged in social entrepreneurship, with the adoption of a regulatory framework applicable to the introduction of financial investment instruments at eu level. these companies can make an important contribution to the creation of innovative ideas to tackle current social and economic problems, as well as to the creation of new jobs.
in writing. − the objectives of the social entrepreneurship initiative proposed by the ec in 2011 are to build an ecosystem to promote social enterprises at the heart of the economy and social innovation. this is to be achieved by recognising existing structures but also by opening up to new innovative forms of social entrepreneurship. the combination of existing and new models is necessary for the future if we are to address the challenges of social policy in the context of the europe 2020 strategy and successfully implement its mission. for these reasons, and in view of the contributions made by the european parliament in this report to achieve this objective, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the public consultation on the single market act launched by the commission revealed high levels of interest in social enterprises and the social economy in general and in their capacity to provide innovative responses to economic, social and, in some cases, environmental challenges through the development of sustainable jobs, the promotion of social inclusion and the improvement of local social services and territorial cohesion. social enterprises operate by providing goods and services to the market, using profits primarily to achieve social goals. its ambitions are consistent with the objectives of the enterprise which can be quantified by means of performance indicators. profits should be reinvested predominantly to promote social objectives. given the importance of these institutions, especially in the context of the crisis we are in, they should be given appropriate financial support, in particular through the european social fund.
in writing. - social economy enterprises located in the european union employ some 11 million people and represent 6% of the total workforce or 10% of all european enterprises. more than 2 million companies are thus making a significant contribution to the design of a new european social model and to the objectives enshrined in the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that this report, which sets out new incentives for the creation of social enterprises, can create job opportunities for thousands of europeans, especially in the health, social care and environmental sectors, because they are growing fast in the economy as a whole. i believe that it is essential to strengthen support for the 'erasmus for young entrepreneurs' programme in order to improve its attractiveness and visibility, including in the social economy.
in writing. − as conceived here, the social entrepreneurship initiative (sbi) is an integral part of the single market and has the express aim of creating the right conditions to encourage eu industry to channel financial investment into social enterprises that are competitive and cross-border. however, there are a number of points in this report which we are opposed to. on the one hand, it defends the paradigm of entrepreneurship as a solution to the crisis when it is known that it is the recessive policies of capital accumulation that impede and obstruct job creation. the report also sees as positive the replacement of the provision of social services, i.e. public services which are rights of the population, by social enterprises, by turning rights into business opportunities. it also promotes precarious work by advocating that workers be placed in voluntary work, for the younger ones, who are starting their careers, and for the older ones, for the sharing of skills. we voted against these ideas because they are unacceptable.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that this ambitious plan for reforming economic and monetary union must be based on the following principles: an integrated financial framework; an integrated budgetary framework; an integrated economic policy framework and strengthening of democratic legitimacy and accountability, but above all there must be a social pact that strengthens the cohesion and living conditions of european citizens with dignity. it is therefore important to send a clear message to the european council, based on the idea that the reforms of economic and monetary union must include a social pillar with a social pact setting out minimum parameters to be guaranteed to all europeans including a european youth guarantee, decent public services, protection in respect of freedom of work and social rights, basic social protection and equal pay and working conditions.
in writing. - in view of the serious economic and financial crisis facing the european union, and taking into account the objectives of promoting stability, consolidating public accounts, sustainable and balanced growth and deepening the internal market advocated by emu, this proposal is intended to be a response by the european union to restore confidence in its currency and economy. the proposal is based on four fundamental pillars: banking, fiscal and economic union and strengthening democratic legitimacy and accountability, including proposals such as the creation of a single supervisory mechanism, strengthening fiscal harmonisation and decisively implementing structural reforms in the economy. i voted in favour of this report because it is a decisive step towards clarifying and strengthening the pillars of emu and setting the union on a course towards a return to prosperity.
in writing. − this report is a response to the proposal of the european leaders (council of the european union, ecb, european commission and eurogroup) for the redefinition of a true economic and monetary union (emu), which sets out the basic pillars of this union, the steps to be taken to consolidate it and the implications in terms of the amendments to the treaties needed for its full implementation. the proposal is based on four fundamental pillars: banking, fiscal and economic union and strengthening democratic legitimacy and accountability, including proposals such as the creation of a single supervisory mechanism, strengthening fiscal harmonisation and decisively implementing structural reforms in the economy. i am voting in favour of this report, as it is a decisive step towards clarifying and strengthening the pillars of emu and setting a course for a return to prosperity in the union. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to strengthen the european institutions and the mechanisms which will enable the european union to meet present and future challenges more effectively and in a timely manner.
in writing. − in view of the current economic, financial and banking crisis, which has led to a worsening of public and private debt at national level and to public financing difficulties in many member states, it is essential to restore confidence in the project of economic and monetary union (emu). we must therefore take into account that job creation, the encouragement of business investment and the improvement of the conditions for financial institutions to provide credit to the real economy will be decisive formulas for the development of the euro area and the union as a whole. the single currency must not be seen as a sign of division. it must therefore be cohesive and capable. the single currency must be stabilised and this will require the member states to transfer competences in the formulation of budgetary policies to the union. it is essential to put an end to the fragility of the banking sector and to respect the commitments of the member states in the context of the european semester, in particular those relating to the euro plus pact, the stability and growth pact and the europe 2020 strategy. i therefore call for greater democratic legitimacy of emu so that it can meet the challenges of a europe which is socially and economically fragile.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the strengthening of fiscal coordination, the creation of a social pact for europe and the subjecting of the troika to greater democratic control at european level. the sustainability of public finances in the long term also requires fair taxation, progressive taxation, good organization of tax collection and greater effectiveness in the fight against all forms of tax fraud and evasion.
in writing. - the report under review, drawn up by mrs thyssen, contains recommendations to the commission on the report of the presidents of the european council, the european commission, the european central bank and the eurogroup entitled 'towards a genuine economic and monetary union'. this is a text which looks at monetary and financial union as a way of helping to overcome the crisis and to build a genuine single market. however, we must demand a banking union that serves the citizens and not the banking sector. i welcome the creation of surveillance and safeguard mechanisms and a strengthened fiscal capacity with the means necessary to fully discharge its responsibilities. to get out of the crisis, we need a real euro-zone government that strengthens economic life and restores confidence in the banking sector. i voted in favour of this report, whose recommendations strengthen the current legislative framework, because i am convinced that this monetary and financial union will increase cohesion between the member states and help to overcome the current crisis. european citizens are waiting for proposals that solve their problems and contribute to a significant improvement in their living conditions.
in writing. - some considerations should be made about the procedure for discussing this deepening of economic and monetary union. as on other occasions, germany imposes, the council adopts and parliament endorses. before this report was discussed and voted on, a committee of three representatives of parliament (appointed, not elected) took a position on behalf of parliament on a wide range of issues. these positions formed the basis of this report and the final compromise solutions. a peculiar exercise of democracy on the part of this parliament. as regards the substance, the consequences of this economic and monetary union are clearly visible, which is responsible for unsustainable imbalances and divergences between member states and is an instrument for deepening neoliberalism in europe. but those who have benefited from it do not want to do without it now. as on other occasions, a new step legitimizes the previous one and justifies the next one. we are well aware of our deep disagreement with this emu, for which there is no reform possible. the strengthening of emu will lead to a further destruction of the productive apparatus of countries with weaker economies by accentuating productive deficits which will generate larger budget deficits and the growth of public debts. we have tabled several amendments to the report which run counter to its whole philosophy and general orientation and which have been rejected by the majority.
in writing. − the current economic, financial and banking crisis has led to a worsening of public and private debt in some member states and to financing difficulties on the part of those member states. we are therefore at a time when it is very important to restore confidence in the european project, with the main focus on economic and monetary union (emu). i therefore believe that job creation, encouraging business investment and improving the conditions for financial institutions to be able to finance the economy again will be key factors in the resumption of growth in the eu. we must therefore find joint and mutually beneficial solutions to overcome the difficulties we are now facing within the eu.
in writing. - i consider the thyssen report towards a genuine economic and monetary union to be one of the most important reports adopted by the ep on european integration since the start of the banking crisis in 2008, which then turned into an economic and then a budgetary crisis in several countries and which has tested the strength of the european union. 2. the key message of the report is that the crisis arose and developed largely from a lack of european integration in the construction of emu and that the solution to the crisis lies in a genuine emu in all its dimensions - fiscal, economic and banking union - and in strengthening the social and political pillar of european integration. the problems of integration can only be overcome by further integration. i also note that the report does not ignore the need to limit competition and tax dumping within the union, because it is contrary to the logic of the internal market. the report therefore deserves the broad support it has received and deserves to be considered as a reference for the future.
in writing. - in view of the serious economic and financial crisis facing the european union, and taking into account the objectives of promoting stability, consolidating public accounts, sustainable and balanced growth and deepening the internal market advocated by emu, this proposal is intended to be a response by the european union to restore confidence in its currency and economy. the proposal is based on four fundamental pillars: banking, budgetary and economic union and strengthening democratic legitimacy and accountability. i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is an important step towards clarifying and strengthening the pillars of economic and monetary union and setting a course that can create a new cycle of stability and growth in the union.
in writing. − this report is a response to the proposal of european leaders (council, ecb, european commission and eurogroup) for the redefinition of a genuine economic and monetary union (emu), which sets out its basic pillars, the steps to be taken to consolidate it and the implications in terms of the treaty amendments needed for its full implementation. in view of the serious economic and financial crisis facing the european union, and taking into account the objectives of promoting stability, consolidating public accounts, sustainable and balanced growth and deepening the internal market advocated by emu, this proposal is intended to be a response by the european union to restore confidence in its currency and economy. the proposal is based on four fundamental pillars: banking, fiscal and economic union and strengthening democratic legitimacy and accountability, including proposals such as the creation of a single supervisory mechanism, strengthening fiscal harmonisation and decisively implementing structural reforms in the economy. i voted in favour of this report because i agree that decisive steps must be taken to strengthen integration and deepen emu.
in writing. - prosperity and stability in the european union (eu) increasingly depend on one of its cornerstones, economic and monetary union (emu). the economic and financial crisis has exposed the weaknesses of emu. strengthening emu is therefore fundamental to the eu's future socioeconomic well-being. i therefore support the proposals put forward by marianne thyssen in her report, since they aim to strengthen emu by adopting concrete measures to enable a real banking, budgetary and economic union to exist, guaranteed by democratic legitimacy and accountability. however, if a fiscal union is to exist, it should take into account the derogations in the treaties in respect of the outermost regions. the proposals contained in the report, to be implemented in an articulated manner, will ensure a coherent and comprehensive framework capable of ensuring the eu's long-term stability and sustainable economic growth.
in writing. - this report contributes to the mystification of the debate on emu and the euro by evading the responsibilities of the majority which adopted it. the reality here is that, contrary to the propaganda around the euro and emu and the eu itself , these instruments have not only failed to prove to be a shield against the crisis and a weapon to confront capitalist globalisation, but have clearly revealed their instrumental character for the accumulation of profits by capitalist monopolies. there is no solution or reform possible for emu. the strengthening of emu will lead to a further destruction of the productive apparatus of countries with weaker economies by accentuating productive deficits which will generate larger budget deficits and the growth of public debts. what is required is an immediate radical change in the statutes and guidelines, as well as in the false regime of independence of the european central bank, which guarantees the equal participation of the states represented on its council, so as to ensure, on the one hand, effective political control of the ecb by the member states and, on the other hand, control by each participating state over its own national central bank and its national monetary policy, with a view to promoting economic growth and employment.
in writing. - i approve this report. the acp-eu joint assembly continues to provide a framework for an open, democratic dialogue between the european union and the acp countries, based on the cotonou agreement. however, i stress the need for a greater role for national parliaments, local authorities and non-state actors in the acp countries in the drafting and monitoring of the regional and national reports and in the implementation of the european union development fund. in this way, the european union and the acp countries can progressively move forward together towards the achievement of the millennium development goals.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that through the quality of its work the app has succeeded in establishing itself as a key player in north-south cooperation, playing a key role, among other things, in monitoring the negotiations of the economic partnership agreements (epas), and because i believe that its political role and effectiveness should be strengthened and developed.
in writing. − the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is an important instrument for an open, democratic and in-depth dialogue between the european union and the acp-eu countries. it is important that you continue to do so and that you maintain your regular attendance at your meetings. i therefore believe that it would be even more constructive if more attention were paid to the results of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and if coherence between its resolutions and those of the european parliament were ensured.
in writing. - the report, by mr norbert neuser, focuses on the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2011. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is composed of the member states of the european union and 78 african, caribbean and pacific (acp) countries signatories to the cotonou agreement and meets twice a year to discuss development-related issues. during 2011, it met in budapest (hungary) from 16 to 18 may, where it adopted three reports and resolutions of the standing committees on the democratic uprisings in north africa and the middle east and on the situation in côte d'ivoire, and in lomé (togo) from 21 to 23 november, where it adopted three resolutions of the standing committees on the lisbon treaty, debt and persons with disabilities. in addition to the regular meetings, it held a regional meeting in yaoundé, cameroon, and two fact-finding missions, one to east timor and another to the fourth high-level forum on aid effectiveness in busan, south korea. i voted in favour of this report and welcome the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, whose quality of work makes it a key player in north-south cooperation.
in writing. - this report is produced annually by the european parliament's committee on development. it reviews the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) during the year. the rapporteur is concerned about the decline in the participation of meps in the meetings of the specialised committees of the app. it is a real problem, and it is important to look into its causes. we have repeatedly stressed the importance of the ppp as a forum for sharing experience and joint reflection which can greatly enhance cooperation with the acp countries. although the report does not mention it, the coincidence of acp meetings with other parliamentary activities (whether committee meetings or plenary sessions) is one of the factors limiting participation. this coincidence should be avoided in the future. the rapporteur is concerned about budget cuts in the member states affecting development policies and urges the acp to keep up the pressure on member states to meet their target of 0.7% of their gni by 2015. it is a just and pertinent concern, which we support. once again, it stresses the need to support the freedom and independence of the media, but says nothing about the problem of the concentration of media ownership, in limiting this freedom and independence.
in writing. − the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly is a forum for open, democratic and in-depth dialogue between the european union and the acp countries. it is thus salutary that meetings be held with a certain regularity so that all can benefit from them. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly has played and continues to play a key role in monitoring the negotiations of the economic partnership agreements (epas). the hearings of the main negotiators from both sides, the meetings with the economic and social actors (both in formal meetings and at side events) and the interaction of meps with their southern counterparts have contributed to greater transparency of the process and a better perception of local issues. beyond the outcome of the negotiations, there can be no doubt that the work of the assembly has been reflected in this process. i welcome the fact that the joint parliamentary assembly has succeeded in establishing itself as a key player in north-south cooperation through the quality of its work, and i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this document presents the results of the two meetings held by the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in 2011. the assembly is a key partner of the european union in implementing the cotonou agreement, including the amendments made in 2010 which are still to be ratified. the negotiations on the economic partnership agreements, which aim to integrate the acp countries into the global market and support the regionalisation of these markets, are an example of the role played by the assembly. it is very important that the european parliament has partners who are aware of the situation. contact with economic and social actors has contributed to a south-north dialogue and to greater transparency in the negotiations on the various areas covered by the cotonou agreement. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that close contact with the european institutions is essential.
in writing. - this report assesses the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) during the year. the rapporteur is concerned about the decline in participation of meps in the meetings of the specialised committees of the app and about budget cuts in the member states affecting development policies, and urges the app to keep up the pressure on the member states to meet their target of 0.7% of their gni by 2015', which seems to us a pertinent concern and which we have advocated in the various fora in which we have participated.
it is true, madam president, and it has been said many times here, that there is a great deal we do not know about the extraction of shale gas. but there are also many we already know, and it is good not to forget them. we know, for example, that each operation to extract shale gas uses more than 19 million litres of drinking water, which is enough to supply 1 000 european citizens in terms of their needs in a year. we also know that every shale gas extraction that is done, in each of the operations that are pumped into the ground 300 tons, can go up to 300 tons of chemicals, about 80 percent of which remain in the ground and do not come out. we also know that every shale gas extraction releases radioactive elements and heavy metals into the ground which, together with the evaporation of the toxic waste resulting from the process, constitute a real threat to public health. this is a danger of contamination of drinking water resources and it is a contamination that is real and that is imminent. we know that shale gas extraction is also a seemingly easy answer, which only thinks about the immediate, industry and profit, ignoring the people, the future and the environment. but this is also a europe which knows, in this house, that water is an essential, vital and important resource, which knows how to protect the health of its citizens and which must protect it, which seeks to make agreements to avoid emissions and to propose energy efficiency, because we know that environmental standards are important - environmental and health standards. so when you don't know everything, being prudent is the least you can do. and you may want to do that, but you're not doing it on our behalf or on behalf of the citizens we're here to represent. (the speaker accepts the answer to two questions on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8)).
answer according to the "blue card" procedure. i think it is interesting that you put this question to me, because you are asking me to choose between two uses of water which i find absolutely unacceptable. we're talking about water as an essential good, we're talking about water as an essential good for humanity, and drinking water, that's what we're talking about. so i can't even compare the nuclear industry and shale gas extraction, because, if you want my opinion on both, i think it's a total waste of water, when we can use it for much more useful purposes for humanity. with regard to the examples given by mr goebbels, it is not by chance that he only mentions two examples, one concerning the recycling of water and the other concerning the non-addition of chemicals, because in the overwhelming majority of farms that exist, in the overwhelming majority, what we are seeing is a total waste of drinking water and the addition of chemicals that remain on the land. what i've said and i'll say it again is that we don't know everything, there are some things we do know. our obligation, and the minimum, is to respond to what the needs of the people and the environment are, and this is a care we must take, on our behalf and on behalf of those we represent.
mr president, it is the most elementary common sense to at least immediately impose a moratorium on the exploitation of shale gas and oil. the environmental impacts associated with the exploitation of these deposits are significant and very negative. the associated techniques, hydraulic fracturing, the injection of polluting, possibly toxic chemicals into the rocks, necessarily lead to a huge instability of these rocks and the degradation of underground water resources or the water courses draining these rocks. these impacts alone would be enough to ban the exploitation of these resources, but at a minimum, a moratorium is required. the commission notes that the extraction of the raw materials is not an economic activity. it would be interesting to know if they exist, and if they do not, it would be interesting to know if this assessment, the results and the methodology of an energy return on investment assessment were made. an energy return on invested energy assessment covering the life cycle of each of these projects in order to verify the economic balance of this technique.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr vice-president of the european commission, we agree that the schengen information system is the most relevant instrument for the security of the schengen area. we consider it to be the backbone of a europe without frontiers and of the area of freedom, security and justice. for several years now the european parliament has been advocating a clearly community solution, rejecting the continuation of an intergovernmental architecture. that is one of the reasons why we have always supported sis ii. but in addition, in a europe enlarged to 27 member states, we need the increased security that sis ii provides by ensuring better accuracy in border controls, by introducing biometric data and by allowing more efficient use of data through the possibility of interconnection. sis ii will also provide a higher level of data protection than that currently provided by sis i. the reports we will be voting on tomorrow will make it possible to clarify the legal framework applicable to the migration from sis i to sis ii, allowing the sis ii legal framework to enter into force and be applied from the moment the first member state makes this transfer. given the political relevance of this dossier and its budgetary expression, parliament, while regretting that it had only been consulted, but in order to avoid further delays, approved the proposals, proposing amendments to strengthen data protection rules, ensure efficient supervision and allow member states in need to still benefit from the existing budget line for 2012. and now we should be emphasizing that finally, after all these years, we are seeing the end in sight as it was expected that the new system could start in january and that sis ii would be operational from april. but, incredibly, we are facing a new setback in a system that should have been in operation since 2007. this time it is not the fault of the european commission, but it comes from the member states - the member states that have always criticised the commission for, over the last few years, having delayed and spent too much money on this project. as the vice-president of the european commission has already said, it was finland. the european parliament was right, after all, not to accept that any reference to the date of entry into force of the system should be removed from the proposal. i call on the member states, and in particular on finland, to take their responsibilities in this process and to prevent further delays in sis ii. and i ask the council and the commission what they intend to do to deal with this further setback, so as to ensure that sis ii comes into force as soon as possible.
mr president, if the commission's proposal was not ambitious at the outset, it has been transformed and transfigured by the council, that is, by the governments, and today it seems to have become a pathetic skeleton. the budget is about choices and about political choices. we want choices that are about cohesion and solidarity. it's been mentioned here several times, but i repeat: what will become of the erasmus programme? what about scientific research? what will happen to investment for job creation if the council's proposal is adopted? what will happen to the funds to support the most vulnerable and poorest people in europe? and i ask you: where is the courage in the midst of all this to implement a tax on financial transactions? where is the courage to end economic macro-conditionality and the sticks of the budgetary pact? in fact, when more and better europe was needed, governments are actually now the grave-diggers of europe that they claim to defend. in the name of the present and the future, the citizens of europe will never forgive us if this parliament and the commission give in to this proposal from the council.
mr president, commissioner, minister, we demand that european agriculture provides our citizens with food of the highest quality standards in the world, in quantity and at affordable prices. we also demand that our farmers do their part to protect the environment and biodiversity, the quality of water and soil, and to fix carbon and combat climate change. in order to achieve this, agriculture is indispensable. we also call on farmers to operate in a context of fierce and unfair international competition. we therefore consider that the latest proposal for an agricultural budget is not serious and is even a provocation. we have agreed to work on the basis of the commission's proposal, which is 12% lower than the current budget in real terms, even though the european parliament has voted overwhelmingly for a higher allocation. i would therefore like to remind the council that this parliament has decisionmaking powers and is prepared to exercise them with all the consequences in defence of the european project, which is needed today more than ever.
mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, mr commissioner, i will be very brief because i think that what is at stake here is essentially a political point, not a financial point, and the question that is being asked is this: do we want the european union to make a difference in the context of the crisis or do we want to aggravate the crisis. most european countries are now making a huge effort in terms of their public finances to overcome the crisis in a competitive way, in a way that can put their countries and the european union on the global stage in a highly competitive and competitive position, but it is obvious that without investment there can be no growth and this crisis cannot be overcome. if the european union insists on these radical cuts, particularly in cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy, what this will mean is that the countries which are making a huge effort will not be able to grow, and this plan which we have accepted in all countries for the european union will fail, good accounts with prospects for growth and competitiveness. the only major instrument for this is precisely this multiannual financial framework, and so if we want the european union to succeed and if we want this policy to be an example for other countries, we must rely on the budget for the financial perspective.
in writing. the proposed cut of some 75 billion in the commission's proposal is totally unacceptable, not only because of its size, but because it is an incredible attack on the cohesion policy and the agricultural policy. it is absolutely unacceptable when the president of the council does this, cutting even more money to the member states and the less favoured regions, while increasing the lump sum for germany and the netherlands and doing nothing about the rebate for the united kingdom. the budget, the financing and prefinancing rates are low for the less developed regions, and the structural funds are subject to penalties without criteria, which are added to those already imposed on them by the stability and growth pact. it is a petty accounting logic which has become the subject of discussion in the next union budget. without money, the cap reform cannot be done. we cannot ask farmers for more greening, more liberalization and more international competition and then retaliate by violently cutting the cap. without money, the essential increase in internal convergence of our member states and our regions is not possible. it is irresponsible to accentuate further the internal divergences within the union.
the european parliament has a broad consensus on the mff 2014-2020. the council is widely divided on this matter. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover the whole of the eu. the eu budget is an investment budget with only 6% of its amount allocated to administrative expenditure. it has a recognised added value and a significant leverage effect on public investment, wealth and job creation. so in a time of recession, it's silly to cut it. an even bigger mistake is to reduce the amount of the mff at the expense of cohesion policy, in a clear lack of solidarity with the poorer regions and member states. many people forget that cohesion policy is made up of the esf, the erdf and the cohesion fund, and that it contributes to smart growth, research, skills development and, in the end, sound spending. for example, in portugal, about two thirds of cohesion policy funds are allocated to smart growth. these difficult times required courage, solidarity and strategic vision on the part of the council.
the debate was based on the latest proposal put forward by mr van rompuy, president of the council, which will be used in the council negotiations on 22 and 23 november. the proposal under discussion implies a budget cut of eur 81 billion (74.5 billion in the multiannual financial framework and 6.2 billion in other budget lines). i am totally against the proposal put forward by the president of the council, because it calls for a reduction of some eur 30 billion in cohesion policy funds and more than eur 25 billion in agricultural and rural development funds. these are two european policies which greatly benefit portugal and the portuguese, who cannot cope with a drastic reduction in their financial envelope. as i have already said in the committee on regional development of the european parliament and in various other thematic forums, i continue to express my strong disagreement with the 48% reduction in the additional specific allocation for the outermost and sparsely populated regions. only with a strengthened budget will the european union be able to invest in growth and employment, thus helping to solve the serious economic and financial crisis in which it finds itself.
in writing. other there is a clear message in the proposed financial framework on the table. and contrary to what may be apparent from this debate, despite the statements made by both sides, the positions of the council and the commission do not differ substantially. it is less than 0.2% of community gni. the message is clear: in a europe of inequalities and divergences, the money for economic and social cohesion is to be cut! the message is in line with the established practice of this european union: take from the poor to give to the rich. on the one hand, they want to broaden and deepen integration and the single market, ensuring new and better conditions for market colonization for the net beneficiaries of the single market. on the other hand, these same net beneficiaries want to squander the budget, especially the cohesion headings that could best minimise the divergence of economies , while on the contrary safeguarding in relative terms the headings where they themselves expect to draw more resources. it is a path that cannot be accepted by all those like portugal who will be harmed, and much, by it.
in writing. - i voted against the appointment of tonio borg as commissioner for the remainder of his term of office because i consider that he is not in a position to guarantee impartiality and independence in the performance of his duties, not only as commissioner for health but also as a member of the college of commissioners, when decisions on women's sexual and reproductive rights are at stake.
in writing. − having gone through all the procedures established for public hearing and scrutiny of the new commissioner, i voted in favour of the appointment of mr tonio borg as a member of the commission for the remainder of the commission's term of office, which expires on 31 october 2014.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that draft amending budget no 5/2012, concerning the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) in the amount of eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations, is important in order to mitigate the effects of a series of earthquakes in italy (emilia-romagna) in may 2012. it is right to release this financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund (eusf) to the people affected by the natural disaster quickly, and i therefore welcome the fact that the italian authorities submitted their application for financial assistance under the eusf immediately, and that the commission submitted its proposal to mobilise the fund immediately.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important to release rapidly financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for people affected by natural disasters.
in writing. - this report proposes an amendment to the budget to accommodate the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in the amount of eur 670 192 359 for the emilia-romagna region. in line with my vote in favour of report a7-0380/2012 on the mobilisation of the eusf in support of the italian region of emilia-romagna, i also voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i believe that financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for people affected by natural disasters, such as the current case of people affected by the earthquake in emilia-romagna, italy, should be released as soon as possible.
in writing. - the report by mrs francesca balzani deals with draft amending budget no 5/2012 of the european union: european union solidarity fund (eusf) following the earthquakes in the emilia romagna region of italy, presented by the commission on 19 september 2012, and amending the budget line for the preparatory action for the european year of volunteering 2011. the purpose of this draft budget, which provides for the mobilisation of eur 670 192 359 from the eusf, is to formally enter this budgetary adjustment in the 2012 budget and to amend the budget line the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i welcome the adoption of this amending budget, as it is essential that this financial aid reaches quickly the people affected by the earthquakes in the emilia romagna region of italy. i voted in favour of this report because it is necessary to find the necessary amounts to help italy after the natural disasters that have struck the country. this is also a way for the member states to show their solidarity and for everyone, especially the eurosceptics, to become aware of the importance of being integrated into the european union.
in writing. − this amending budget is intended to allow the release of the funds needed to support the people of emilia-romagna in italy, a region affected by a series of earthquakes in may 2012 which caused several deaths and serious damage to homes, factories, agricultural land and more than 100 structures of historical significance. the commission has provided aid of eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations. it is therefore proposed that this amount should also be entered in the budget line created for the purpose of mobilising the fund. even though this mobilisation has been faster than on previous occasions (when it took about a year to unlock the aid), the truth is that there is still a large and unjustified time lag between the disaster and the unblocking of eu aid. in this case, it was more than six months. the fund's rules need to be amended to allow for greater flexibility and more rapid and timely mobilisation. it is now necessary that this aid reach the people on the ground as quickly as possible. the report also provides for an amendment to the budget line for the preparatory action for the european year of volunteering 2011. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal as i consider it of great importance that rapid financial assistance through the european union solidarity fund (eusf) be provided to people affected by natural disasters and therefore i welcome the submission by the italian authorities of the request for financial assistance from the eusf, as well as the immediate submission by the commission of its proposal to mobilise the eusf.
in writing. − the draft amending budget concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund, amounting to eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations, to mitigate the effects of a series of earthquakes in italy (emilia-romagna) in may 2012. the question is whether to approve the formal entry of this budgetary adjustment in the 2012 budget, which amends the budget line the amount of assigned revenue in accordance with article 21 (3) of the financial regulation is estimated at eur 100000. i voted in favour.
in writing. − considering it very important to release rapidly financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for people affected by natural disasters, and the italian authorities having submitted their application for financial support under the eusf immediately, i voted in favour of the document and supported the european parliament in reiterating its call on the council not to put off efforts to provide faster union aid and not to delay its decision on such a sensitive and urgent issue.
in writing. − i approve this report, taking into account that in parallel with this proposal to mobilise the solidarity fund for italy, the commission has presented a draft amending budget (oj no 5/2012 of 19 september 2012) in order to enter the corresponding commitment and payment appropriations in the 2012 budget, as provided for in point 26 of the interinstitutional agreement. the gravity of the situation demanded this, as the earthquakes killed 27 people, injured some 350 people and forced the evacuation of more than 45 000 people. in addition, there has been serious damage to buildings, infrastructure, businesses, industrial and agricultural facilities, and cultural heritage. in this respect, i not only approve of the mobilisation of the fund and welcome the swift intervention of the italian authorities and the european commission, but i also believe that it is justified to consider this disaster as a 'large scale natural disaster' and therefore fall within the main scope of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002.
in writing. − the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. italy submitted an application for assistance under the european solidarity fund following a series of earthquakes that occurred in that country in may 2012, which killed 27 people, injured around 350 people and forced the evacuation of more than 45 000 people. there was also widespread and severe damage to buildings, infrastructure, businesses, industrial and agricultural facilities, and important cultural heritage. the request addressed by the italian authorities complies with the eligibility criteria of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002. the commission has proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund to the amount of eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations. i therefore support this report which recommends adopting the commission's proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the mobilisation of the fund to respond to the catastrophe caused by a series of earthquakes in italy is justified.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund was set up to help member states affected by the crisis or hit by damage caused by natural disasters. as such, i welcome its implementation, provided that funds are carefully monitored and controlled, ensuring that aid reaches the affected populations. i voted in favour of this report, which provides for the mobilisation of eur 670 192 359 from the eusf for the italian region of emilia-romagna, which was hit in may this year by two violent earthquakes which killed 27 people, injured 350 and led to the evacuation of more than 45 000 italian citizens. despite the difficulties in negotiating the budget and the general feeling of financial constraint in the eu, i believe that there are some 'expenses' like this that cannot and should not be avoided. and i would add that european citizens would have a better understanding and perception of the eu's added value if a greater proportion of the budget were allocated to the eusf and other funds to support european citizens, rather than being channelled, for example, to european history houses or unnecessary trips to strasbourg.
in writing. - the earthquakes that struck italy in may this year left a trail of death and destruction that still moves us today. the extreme devastation which has struck some areas of northern italy cannot therefore fail to call for our solidarity and to motivate our action. the european union must intervene in situations of this magnitude and seek to minimise their impact on the populations affected. the mobilisation of the solidarity fund is thus a logical consequence of this provision which must be shared by all if we are to remain united in adversity. i hope that the aid provided by the mobilisation of the fund will help to bring real relief to those most affected by the earthquakes.
in writing. - as on other occasions, following natural disasters of considerable proportions, causing great damage and damage, which could have a lasting impact on the lives of the population, we gave our agreement to the decision of the european parliament and the council to mobilise the european union solidarity fund. this time, it was to help the populations of the emilia-romagna region, affected by a series of earthquakes in may 2012 that caused several deaths, serious material damage to homes, factories, agricultural land and more than 100 structures of historical significance. even though this mobilisation has been faster than on previous occasions, the truth is that there is still a large and unjustified time lag between the occurrence of the disaster and the unblocking of eu aid. in this case, it was more than six months. this is one of the reasons why we have been advocating an amendment to the fund's rules. it is a need which we reiterate here.
in writing. − following a series of earthquakes in italy and following a request from the italian authorities, the european commission, having verified that the application in question meets the eligibility criteria of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, has proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations. i therefore voted in favour of this report, which recommends adopting the commission proposal for a decision annexed to this report on the mobilisation of the fund for italy.
in writing. − the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the european solidarity fund up to an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. italy submitted an application for assistance under the european solidarity fund following a series of earthquakes that occurred in that country in may 2012, which killed 27 people, injured around 350 people and forced the evacuation of 45 000 people. there was also widespread and severe damage to buildings, infrastructure, businesses, industrial and agricultural facilities, and important cultural heritage. the request addressed by the italian authorities complies with the eligibility criteria of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, and the commission has therefore proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund, amounting to eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations. i voted in favour.
in writing. − having verified that the request of the italian authorities following the earthquakes in italy in may 2012 meets the eligibility criteria of council regulation (ec) no 2012/2002, the commission has proposed to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations. the european parliament recommends that the commission's proposal on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund be adopted, and i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the decision of the european parliament and the council to mobilise the european union solidarity fund for the people of emilia-romagna, an italian region affected by a series of earthquakes in may 2012 which caused several deaths and serious damage to homes, factories, agricultural land and more than 100 sites of outstanding historical heritage. the european commission has proposed aid of eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations, which we have of course supported.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that a regulation amending regulation (eec) no 2658/87 is necessary to implement the provisions of the agreements on the modification of concessions for processed poultrymeat signed between the european union and brazil and thailand in june 2012. such a need to amend the existing regulation is more than justified by the need to increase the level of protection of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the reasoning in it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the need to update regulation (eec) no 2658/87 in response to the provisions contained in the new concession agreements on processed poultrymeat signed by the european union, brazil and thailand in june 2012. this review will make it easier to mitigate the import substitution effects affecting the eu poultrymeat sector.
in writing. − the eu has experienced a dramatic increase in imports of processed poultrymeat, which has been hurting the union's poultry industry. in order to change this situation, the commission renegotiated concessions under article xxviii of gatt 1994 with brazil and thailand. i hope that this renegotiation and the agreement we have approved will bring benefits to european producers and allow consumers to keep the quality and quantity of poultrymeat at their disposal.
in writing. the report by mr vital moreira, of the committee on international trade, is on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the application of the agreements concluded by the european union (eu) following negotiations under article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994, amending and supplementing annex i to regulation (eec) no 2658/87 as regards the tariff and statistical nomenclature and the common customs tariff (amending the concessions for processed poultrymeat). the approval of this regulation is necessary in order to implement the provisions of the agreements signed in june 2012 by the european union, brazil and thailand on the modification of concessions for processed poultrymeat, which provide for an increase in the extra-quota rates for 7 tariff lines for processed poultrymeat products and their opening to brazil, thailand and other members of the world trade organisation (wto). i voted in favour of this report because it ensures a balance in trade, increases the level of protection and compensates the eu's social partners through tariff quotas.
in writing. - we have serious doubts about this proposal. the deepening of the crisis in europe requires investment policies, support and strengthening of the national production of each country, investment in small and mediumsized enterprises, job creation and not the continuation of the liberalization of trade that so many difficulties have brought to the business fabric of the weaker economies, such as portugal. as a consequence of the agreement established in 2007 on poultry under article xxviii of gatt 1994, the eu has seen a sharp increase in imports of processed poultry meat which has negatively affected the european poultry sector. the harmful consequences of liberalization and deregulation of international trade are now recognized, as always, a posteriori and without any proper corrections. and then insist on the same recipe. the report approves the conclusion of an agreement providing for the opening of tariff quotas for processed poultrymeat (and an increase in the extra-quota rates). potential additional difficulties for a sector which has been particularly affected by the difficulties associated with the costs of adapting production structures to more specific eu legislation.
in writing. − the adoption of this instrument amending regulation (eec) no 2658/87 is necessary to implement provisions of the agreements on the modification of concessions in respect of processed poultrymeat signed by the european union, brazil and thailand in june 2012. a mutually satisfactory countervailing adjustment was reached under article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994 which counterbalances the increase in the rate of the definitive duty. the annex to the regulation on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the common customs tariff should reflect the agreed amendments concerning processed poultrymeat (chapter 16 of the combined nomenclature). the implementation of the agreements provides for an increase in the extra-quota rates for 7 tariff lines of processed poultrymeat products and the opening of tariff quotas for these 7 tariff lines to brazil, thailand and other wto members. i voted in favour of this report, since it provides for compensation for the social partners in the european union.
in writing. − the adoption of a regulation amending regulation (eec) no 2658/87 is necessary to implement the provisions of the agreements on the modification of concessions in respect of processed poultrymeat signed by the european union, brazil and thailand in june 2012. the implementation of the agreements provides for an increase in the extra-quota rates for 7 tariff lines of processed poultrymeat products and the opening of tariff quotas for these 7 tariff lines to brazil, thailand and other wto members. the rapporteur supports the rebalancing exercise, which ensures a mutually acceptable solution for the trading partners. it also stresses that in order to address the substitution effects affecting the eu aviation industry, the level of protection of the european internal market should be increased and that eu social partners should be adequately compensated through the tariff rate quotas. i voted in favour.
in writing. − as the agreements between the eu, the federative republic of brazil and the kingdom of thailand were negotiated on the basis of tariff codes which were subsequently merged into one, this merger should be reflected in the implementing regulation. i therefore voted in favour of this report (a7-0351/2012) as it proposes an amendment to the tariff and statistical nomenclature and the common customs tariff to reflect the agreed modifications on processed poultrymeat. the adoption of this report will allow the result of the negotiations between the contracting parties in geneva at the world trade organisation (wto) to be implemented rapidly.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it right that, as a result of its accession to the world trade organisation, the russian federation has agreed to reduce the current export rates for raw wood products. this amendment allows for quotas in these tariffs to be allocated to the european union and for the european union's tariff quota quantities to be managed by the european union and russia. it is essential that the european union, in its relations with the world, which is constantly changing and where new industrialized countries are increasingly gaining market shares at world level, in direct competition with the european union, is able to protect european producers and manufacturers against the rest of the world, because only then can we have a competitive and growth-oriented europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the reasoning in it.
in writing. − in may 2011, the international trade commission gave its recommendation to give a favourable opinion on the agreement with russia in the context of its accession to the wto. this agreement dealt with the tariff quotas for russian timber exports to the eu. under this agreement, the russian federation will be able to issue export licences on the basis of documentation issued by the european union and the european union will manage the tariff quotas. following this agreement, the commission proposed a draft revision of the existing quota system which is now before parliament.
in writing. the report under review deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the allocation of tariff quotas for exports of wood from the russian federation to the european union (eu). the russian federation is an important partner of the eu with whom it has several partnership agreements, although, despite its membership of the world trade organisation (wto), the rule of law and respect for human rights are not being properly respected by the governments. the eu imports large quantities of raw wood from the russian federation and the commission has therefore negotiated a new agreement under which russia will reduce or eliminate export duties on raw wood. in the context of the negotiations for russia's accession to the wto, the commission negotiated an agreement with russia on the administration of tariff quotas applicable to exports of wood and a protocol on technical modalities in accordance with the agreement. i voted in favour of conferring implementing powers on the commission in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of the agreement and the protocol after its entry into force, which will take place on the day of publication of the regulation in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. − the conclusion of this bilateral agreement between the eu and the russian federation follows the latter's accession to the wto. after 18 years of negotiations, russia a major source of raw materials for the eu was officially accepted as a wto member in december 2011. there has been great pressure on the country to fully comply with wto rules, which means the removal of all "protectionist barriers to trade" with the eu. in this context, russia had to reduce the export duty rates for wood products, in particular for some coniferous species. this means the removal of all "prohibitive" barriers that hinder trade with the eu, given its "strong offensive interest in this agreement". once again, the interests of big capital in the eu are playing their part, as the cost of importing this raw material is reduced. the vote on this report is inseparable from our principled position on the role of the wto in liberalizing and deregulating international trade, that is, in guiding international trade not to defend the interests of the people but of the big corporations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the allocation of tariff quotas for exports of wood from the russian federation to the european union, after the committee on international trade gave its favourable opinion. the european parliament adopted its position at first reading, endorsing the commission's proposal, as this was a matter of consensus.
in writing. - the purpose of this proposal for a regulation fixing the tariff quotas and quotas to be applied to exports of wood from the russian federation to the european union is to adjust the bilateral agreement concluded with russia in the framework of the negotiations for accession to the world trade organisation. under the agreement, the russian federation is to issue export licences based on eu documentation and is to jointly manage its share of tariff quotas. this proposal for a regulation for the establishment of the tariff quota applied to exports of wood from russia to the eu contains provisions (articles 3 and 4) of the original report of the council decision, as suggested by inta, in order to ensure the necessary institutional balance. i voted in favour.
in writing. - this report concerns the proposal for a regulation allocating a tariff quota system to be applied to timber exported from the russian federation to the european union. this introduction of tariff quotas follows the bilateral negotiations between the russian federation and the eu during the latter's negotiations for accession to the world trade organisation (wto). i voted in favour of this report because the interests of the union have been safeguarded in the wto negotiations.
in writing. - i approve this report, taking into account that tariff concessions for foreign exporters have been a win for them, mainly because of the lack of safety requirements. this means that the european processed poultrymeat industry has been severely damaged, which in my view forces the european union to review this very tariff scheme. given that in this type of trade relations, the trading partners brazil and thailand will be the most affected, i agree with the introduction of temporary compensatory elements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the reasoning in it.
in writing. - as a member of this house, but also as a citizen and consumer, i believe it is of the utmost importance that the agreements in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and brazil, as well as the eu and thailand, which allow for greater protection of the poultry sector in europe, are concluded. in 2007, following the conclusion of the poultry negotiations under article xxviii of gatt 1994, the eu saw a sharp increase in imports of processed poultrymeat. foreign exporters will have benefited from a relative difference in the level of protection by reducing the meat/chicken offal content to a level below 57%, thus becoming eligible for a separate tariff heading. consequently, there has been an increase in imports of prepared poultrymeat which has negatively affected the european poultry sector. i therefore agree that the level of protection needs to be increased to fill in the gaps and exclude any possibility of non-compliance.
in writing. the recommendation under consideration, drawn up by mr vital moreira of the committee on international trade, concerns the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union (eu), of the agreements in the form of an exchange of letters between the eu and the federative republic of brazil and between the eu and the kingdom of thailand, both concluded pursuant to article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 relating to the modification of the concessions for processed poultrymeat provided for in the eu list annexed to gatt 1994. i voted in favour of approving these agreements, the implementation of which provides for an increase in the extra-quota rates for seven tariff lines for processed poultrymeat and the opening of tariff quotas on the same terms for brazil, thailand and other wto members, increasing the level of protection by excluding non-compliance and benefiting all trading partners, both eu and wto members.
in writing. − as a consequence of the agreement established in 2007 on poultry under article xxviii of gatt 1994, the eu has seen a sharp increase in imports of processed poultry meat which has negatively affected the european poultry sector. the harmful consequences of liberalization and deregulation of international trade are now recognized, as always, a posteriori and without any proper corrections. and then insist on the same recipe. the report approves the conclusion of an agreement providing for the opening of tariff quotas for processed poultrymeat (and an increase in the extra-quota rates). we have the greatest doubts about this proposal. with the deepening of the crisis in europe, there is an urgent need for investment policies to support and strengthen national production in each country, to invest in small and mediumsized enterprises, to create jobs and not to pursue the liberalization of trade which has brought so many difficulties to the business fabric of the weaker economies, such as portugal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on trade agreements between the eu and brazil and between the eu and thailand under article xxviii of gatt 1994 amending the concessions for processed poultrymeat provided for in the eu list annexed to gatt 1994. after the 2007 gatt agreement, the eu has seen a sharp increase in imports of processed poultrymeat. foreign exporters took advantage of a relative difference in the level of protection by reducing the meat/chicken offal content to a level below 57% and becoming eligible for a contiguous tariff line. imports of prepared poultrymeat have had a negative impact on this sector, which led the commission to react and was authorized by the council to negotiate the amendment of the concessions for this type of meat under chapter 16 of the combined nomenclature (cn), which i thought was fundamental. supporting an appropriate rebalancing of trade relations, which ensures a mutually acceptable solution for their respective partners, is central to the eu's external trade relations policy.
in writing. the european union has seen a dramatic increase in imports of poultrymeat, due to substitution effects that have been negatively affecting this industry. foreign exporters appeared to take advantage of a relative difference in the level of protection of the law by reducing the meat/chicken offal content to a level below 57%, thus becoming eligible for a contiguous tariff line. similar substitution effects could be expected for other tariff headings covering other types of processed poultrymeat. for this reason, and in so far as this increase in imports of processed poultry meat has negatively affected the european poultry sector, the commission was authorised by the council to negotiate an amendment to the concessions for poultry meat under chapter 16 of the combined nomenclature. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreements because i believe that these amendments are beneficial for the eu.
in writing. − the increase in imports of prepared poultrymeat after 2007 was due to foreign exporters taking advantage of a relative difference in the level of protection by reducing the meat/chicken offal content to below 57%, which negatively affected the european poultry sector. in view of the negative effect on the eu aviation sector, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a new agreement with the federal republic of brazil and the kingdom of thailand, the main exporters to be affected by the new changes to the tariff concessions, with a view to safeguarding the aviation sector in the single market. the agreement signed between the eu and these countries stipulates that the eu is to compensate for the increase in the consolidated duty by creating tariff quotas and allocating a significant percentage of these to the federative republic of brazil and the kingdom of thailand. i voted in favour of the recommendation by mr vital moreira, given that the compensatory adjustment satisfies all parties involved and compensates for the increase in consolidated entitlements.
in writing. - i approve this report. given the track record of the euro-mediterranean agreement, which has liberalised trade with countries in this part of the world, including israel, and since only one error has been detected in the tariff rates for an israeli product imported into the european union, i have nothing against the amendment which puts the negotiations as planned from the outset, this being only a stumbling block which can be overcome quickly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the reasoning in it.
in writing. i am voting in favour of this report, which is purely technical in nature and which is intended to correct an inadvertent error on the part of the commission. following the signature and entry into force on 1 january 2010 of the eu-israel association protocol on agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products, the union inadvertently started to apply the same duties to imports of chemically pure lactose. having identified and acknowledged the error, the commission entered into negotiations with the state of israel in order to correct it and comply with the provisions of the protocol. in the current international context, the need for these changes, while obvious, can help stabilise eu-tel aviv relations.
in writing. the liberalization of trade between the european union and israel has been taking place in an increasing and gradual manner. however, a problem was identified with regard to the customs duties applied to imports into the union of chemically pure lactose originating in israel. this problem, which the commission has already acknowledged, lacks a technical solution and changes are necessary to meet the commitments on market access for agricultural and processed agricultural products made in previous agreements.
in writing. - the present recommendation, drawn up by mr vital moreira, concerns the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union (eu) and the state of israel, amending the annexes to protocols 1 and 2 to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part. israel is a state with which the eu has partnership agreements despite all the trouble that this country is facing because of the permanent conflict with its neighbour, palestine, as we have recently been able to confirm. i therefore advocate that the issue of respect for human rights and the principle of non-violence should be addressed in bilateral eu-israel meetings. i voted in favour of this recommendation because it is a council decision which has already been validated and which has the favourable opinion of the committee on international trade of this parliament.
in writing. - although the main objective of this report is to approve some technical adjustments to the euro-mediterranean agreement, it cannot be dissociated from the central issue inherent in this agreement. as we had the opportunity to denounce when the acaa agreement was approved, we strongly condemn it. we condemn the eu's deplorable and hypocritical attitude of total complacency in the face of israeli crimes against the palestinian people. we are discussing this agreement again at a time when the state of israel is launching a series of violent attacks on the gaza strip, which have already caused dozens of deaths, including civilians and children. the hypocritical 'human rights' clauses that the eu includes in its agreements are of no use in these cases. not once have they been called upon to suspend the agreement, as was demanded, in view of israel's systematic violations of human rights. this eu policy of double standards is particularly visible when, in relation to other states, human rights violations are precisely the reason for imposing sanctions of various kinds.
in writing. - having regard to the favourable recommendation of the committee on international trade, i voted in favour of the european parliament's draft legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the state of israel amending the annexes to protocols 1 and 2 to the euro-mediterranean agreement and establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part.
in writing. − the eu-israel protocol on agricultural products, paps and fishery products entered into force in january 2010, and it was only later noted that the eu had begun to levy undue duties on imports of pure chemical lactose originating in israel. the commission has acknowledged the error, and a revised agreement has since been negotiated with israel. in order to comply with the specific commitments on market access for agricultural products and processed agricultural products, and to prevent any possible misinterpretation of the agreement, i voted in favour of amending the annexes to protocols 1 and 2 to the euro-mediterranean agreement.
in writing. - the eu has inadvertently taxed, under the eu-israel agricultural products protocol, imports of chemically pure lactose from israel. the commission considered it appropriate to review the signed protocols in order to avoid misinterpretation of the protocols and at the same time to comply with the rules on market access for processed agricultural products as previously agreed and signed between the eu and the state of israel. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the recommendation put forward by the rapporteur.
in writing. the aim of this report is to approve technical adjustments to the euro-mediterranean agreement. however, the central issue inherent in this agreement is the deplorable and hypocritical stance of the eu in continuing to support and establish relations with israel, a country which systematically violates the rules of international law and the most elementary rights of the palestinian people to dignity and self-determination. at the same time, the eu sanctions countries such as iran on the pretext of human rights violations and the possession of nuclear weapons. we are discussing this agreement again at a time when the state of israel is launching a series of violent attacks on the gaza strip, which have already caused dozens of deaths, including civilians and children. the majority of the ep that approved this report did not seem to mind.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering first of all that its adoption is of great interest to the european union as it provides for significant improvements in the framework on the supply of timber from russia. in order to avoid consecutive increases in the export duties on russian wood products, which have affected many european producers, it is in the best interests of the european parliament to give its consent to the rapid conclusion of this agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the assumptions in it.
in writing. − this is a bilateral agreement with russia in the framework of the negotiation process for russia's accession to the world trade organisation. parliament's consent is required for the council to formally endorse this agreement. according to the same, the russian federation may issue export licences on the basis of import documentation issued by the union and the union will manage the tariff quotas. the union has an interest in this agreement which will bring some predictability and may even improve trade relations between the parties. this could be beneficial for industries linked to wood and those of construction, paper and furniture.
in writing. the recommendation under consideration, by ms inese vaidere, concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union (eu) and the russian federation concerning the administration of tariff quotas applicable to exports of wood from the russian federation to the eu and the protocol between the eu and the government of the russian federation on technical arrangements in accordance with the said agreement. the above-mentioned eu/russian federation bilateral agreement, negotiated in the context of russia's accession to the wto, needs the consent of the european parliament before it can be signed by the council. the russian federation has agreed to reduce its export duty rates on raw materials, including wood products, and has allocated a specific share of the quotas to the eu, while retaining the power to issue export licences. i voted in favour of this draft decision because it is in the interest of the member states to import timber from russia and this agreement avoids the consecutive increases in export duties on timber which russia has applied since 2007 and which represent a serious disadvantage for eu producers.
in writing. − the conclusion of this bilateral agreement between the eu and the russian federation follows the latter's accession to the wto. in this context, russia had to reduce the export duty rates for wood products, in particular for some coniferous species. this means the removal of all "prohibitive" barriers that hinder trade with the eu, given its "strong offensive interest in this agreement". once again, it is the interests of big eu capital that are exerting their influence, as the import costs of this raw material which is crucial for industry in many eu countries, such as the paper, construction and furniture industries, are being reduced. russia, like any other country, has the right to exercise sovereignty over its natural resources and to impose export duties that it deems most appropriate to its interests, regardless of wto provisions or eu interests.
in writing. - this bilateral agreement with the russian federation was negotiated in the context of the russian federation's accession to the world trade organisation. in accordance with the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament's consent was requested, which is an indispensable condition for the council to be able to proceed officially with the conclusion of the agreement. the eu has a strong interest in this agreement as it contributes to significantly improving the supply of timber from russia. the economic operators in the sector consider it important to avoid the recurrent consecutive increases of export duties on wood applied by russia since 2007 and which affected many eu producers. in these terms, by giving the agreement greater predictability and better trading conditions, i voted in favour of approving its conclusion.
in writing. − under this agreement, the russian federation is to issue export licences on the basis of import documents issued by the european union, while the european union is responsible for administering its share of tariff quotas. in the process of accession to the wto, the russian federation agreed to reduce the customs tariffs to be applied to raw materials, including wood products. this is of key interest to the eu, as the agreement promotes a significant improvement in the conditions for the supply of timber from russia. the tariff quotas with reduced export duties will also help the eu's timber industry and its downstream operators such as the paper, construction and furniture industries. i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement and the protocol on shared management, which transfers the management of the quota and the allocation of the quota to the eu side, bringing a clear added value to the stability and reliability of the trading relationship.
in writing. − the bilateral agreement with the russian federation was negotiated in the context of the russian federation's accession to the world trade organisation, with the russian federation agreeing to reduce the export duty rates it currently applies to raw materials, including wood products. thus, lower export duties are applied to quantities exported from russia within the limits of the quotas established and higher duties are applied to products in excess of the quotas. the eu was allocated a specific share of the quotas and these were set at a relatively broad level for the eu, at least taking into account the expected short-term demand. this bilateral agreement lays down the general provisions for the implementation of the tariff quota part. while the eu will be responsible for managing the quota authorisations, the russian federation will retain the power to issue export licences on the basis of the relevant import documents of eu responsibility. for the reasons i have given, i supported the agreement.
in writing. - i support this report, as i consider sis ii to be an essential instrument for increasing the security of the schengen area and at the same time for more effective intergovernmental management of the system, which considerably improves data protection and citizens' fundamental rights. this report thus enables the european union, its citizens and the schengen states and citizens outside the european union to benefit as quickly as possible from the benefits of this new system.
in writing. − the schengen information system (sis) is the backbone of a europe without borders and of the area of freedom, security and justice. the second generation of sis (sis ii) will allow the introduction of new data, including biometric data, new types of alerts and new functionalities that will enhance security and a more intelligent use of information. the migration to sis ii is scheduled to start at the beginning of january next year. sis ii is an essential instrument for strengthening the security of the schengen area and for ensuring the intergovernmental management of the system. for several years the european parliament has been advocating the need for a clearly community solution, rejecting the continuation of an intergovernmental architecture. this is one of the reasons for supporting sis ii. despite support for the european commission's proposal, this report, which has my support, considers it essential to strengthen data protection rules and the need to ensure effective supervision of this complex migration.
in writing. − despite the numerous problems and delays that the sis ii project has been experiencing over the last few years, the ep has always supported sis ii, supporting the need for a clearly community solution and rejecting the continuation of an intergovernmental architecture. sis ii should also contribute to enhanced security and provide a higher level of data protection than currently exists. parliament accepted the council's proposal to split the commission's initiative by creating a second proposal which more adequately reflected the situation in the united kingdom and ireland, which meant that the ep had to give its opinion on this proposal as well. the specific situation of the united kingdom and ireland stems from the fact that these member states only participate partially in schengen, in particular as regards measures in the framework of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. both countries do not participate in the current sis 1+, but will participate in sis ii, and it is therefore necessary to clarify their special situation, as they will not be able to participate in the aspects covered by the sis ii regulation (ex-1st pillar), but only in the aspects covered by the sis ii decision (ex-3rd pillar).
in writing. the schengen information system (sis) is the most important tool for the security of the schengen area. sis ii (the second generation sis) makes it possible to add new data, new types of alerts and new functions that could increase security and lead to a more intelligent use of information through linked alerts. the migration of sis 1+ to sis ii is governed by two legal instruments: regulation 1104/2008 in the former first pillar and council decision 2008/839/jha in the former third pillar. the commission's proposal seeks to merge the two legal acts into one in order to reflect the abolition of the pillars. the council asked for the original proposal to be divided into two parts, one of which would include the united kingdom and ireland in order to respect their specific positions. that's the one we voted for here. it is never too much to stress the importance of the schengen information system for the security of europeans and the need for this migration to take place with the utmost caution and care, in respect of the rights of citizens.
in writing. - we are seeing the development of new features in the schengen information system, we are seeing its deepening. the migration to sis ii implies that new authorities will have access to sis ii, linking alerts together, adding new categories of data (such as the arrest warrant, biometric data such as fingerprints and photographs) and a technical platform for sharing information with the visa information system. the report also calls for further devolution of member states' powers by migrating to sis ii, thus underlining its federalist character. this process will add new elements to a database that is accessible to several people, without any guarantee of confidentiality or of non-sharing of this data with other people or organisations. we reiterate our longstanding condemnation of the serious threats to the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens arising from the creation of the schengen area. the migration from sis i to sis ii confirms this trend and deserves our firm rejection.
in writing. - the sis (schengen information system) is the most relevant instrument for the security of the schengen area and is rightly considered the backbone of a europe without borders and of the area of freedom, security and justice. sis ii (the second generation of sis) will allow the introduction of new data (in particular the introduction of biometric data), new types of alerts and new functionalities, allowing for enhanced security and a smarter use of information through the interconnection of alerts. sis ii is an essential instrument for strengthening the security of the schengen area, for putting the intergovernmental management of the system in charge and for considerably improving data protection and the fundamental rights of individuals. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report so that sis ii can come into force as soon as possible in the eu, including the uk and ireland, as desired. i congratulate my colleague carlos coelho on his work.
in writing. − an area of freedom, security and justice between member states, part of the schengen agreement, is only feasible if it has effective instruments, such as the 1st and 2nd generation schengen information system. i am voting in favour of this proposal to migrate from sis i to sis ii, because i consider it essential that it should move from an intergovernmental system to a union system, where the protection of citizens' data must remain an essential element of the proposal.
in writing. − i approve of this report, beginning by congratulating the commission on this proposal, which clarifies the legal framework applicable to the migration from sis 1+ to sis ii and i particularly welcome the application of the sis ii legal framework from the moment the first member state completes the transfer of its system. this proposal, in my view, increases legal certainty and avoids unnecessary expenditure in the various member states. i also welcome the possibility of community co-financing of any expenditure that member states may have to bear in the context of the migration process. however, i regret the delay in the commission's presentation of this initiative.
in writing. − the schengen information system (sis) is the backbone of a europe without borders and of the area of freedom, security and justice. the second generation of sis (sis ii) will allow the introduction of new data, including biometric data, new types of alerts and new functionalities that will enhance security and a more intelligent use of information. the migration to sis ii is scheduled to start at the beginning of january next year. sis ii is an essential instrument for strengthening the security of the schengen area and for ensuring the intergovernmental management of the system. for several years the european parliament has been advocating the need for a clearly community solution, rejecting the continuation of an intergovernmental architecture. this is one of the reasons for supporting sis ii. despite support for the european commission's proposal, this report, which has my support, considers it essential to strengthen data protection rules and the need to ensure effective supervision of this complex migration. given the political relevance of the matter and its importance in budgetary terms, it is regrettable that parliament is only consulted.
in writing. − despite the numerous problems and delays that the sis ii project has been experiencing over the last few years, the ep has always supported sis ii, supporting the need for a clearly community solution and rejecting the continuation of an intergovernmental architecture. sis ii should also contribute to enhanced security and provide a higher level of data protection than currently exists. these proposals ensure greater legal clarity and avoid additional costs, where the sis ii legal framework should apply from the moment the first member state completes the transfer. it also provides for the possibility of community co-financing to ensure timely migration by member states. the commission has introduced amendments to strengthen data protection rules, ensuring efficient supervision of this complex process and a smooth transition to the new system, ensuring that the ep is kept informed throughout the process as well as the final outcome, and ensuring data quality and accuracy by ensuring the deletion of any data that has not been transferred. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. the schengen information system (sis) is the most important tool for the security of the schengen area. sis ii (the second generation sis) makes it possible to add new data, new types of alerts and new functions that could increase security and lead to a more intelligent use of information through linked alerts. the migration of sis 1+ to sis ii is governed by two legal instruments: regulation 1104/2008 in the former first pillar and council decision 2008/839/jha in the former third pillar. the commission's proposal seeks to merge the two legal acts into one in order to reflect the abolition of the pillars. the council asked for the original proposal to be divided into two parts, one of which would not include the united kingdom and ireland. that's what we're voting on here. despite the criticism it has received, the schengen area is an important achievement for europeans. having an information system that effectively ensures security within it is a contribution to its durability.
in writing. - in this case, the participation of the united kingdom and ireland is not taken into account. but our position is, of course, the same as that expressed in the previous report (in which these two countries took part). we voted against it. the migration to sis ii entails the development of new features in the system, extending its access to new authorities, interlinking alerts between them, adding new categories of data (such as the arrest warrant, biometric data such as fingerprints and photographs) and a technical platform for sharing information with the visa information system. these are elements of increased concern for a system (and the space it serves) which from its origins has entailed serious threats to the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens.
in writing. − this report covers the same subject as a7-0368/2012 but does not include the united kingdom and ireland. in fact, following discussions between the member states, the council considered it more appropriate to divide the commission proposal into two texts: one in which the united kingdom and ireland participate and another in which they do not. sis ii (the second generation of sis) will allow the introduction of new data (in particular the introduction of biometric data), new types of alerts and new functionalities, as well as enhanced security and a smarter use of information through the interconnection of alerts. the sis is also recognised as an essential instrument for strengthening the security of the schengen area, for putting the intergovernmental management of the system in place and for considerably improving data protection and the fundamental rights of individuals, which is why i am voting in favour of this report. i congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague carlos coelho, on the work he has done here.
in writing. - for reasons of legal certainty, the council decided that this proposal should be divided into two parts, one containing the participation of the united kingdom and ireland and the other not. an area of freedom, security and justice between member states, part of the schengen agreement, is only feasible if it has effective instruments, such as the 1st and 2nd generation schengen information system. i am voting in favour of this proposal to migrate from sis i to sis ii, because i consider it essential that it should move from an intergovernmental system to a union system, where the protection of citizens' data must remain an essential element of the proposal.
in writing. − the migration to sis ii entails the development of new features in the system, extending its access to new authorities, interlinking alerts between them, adding new categories of data (such as the arrest warrant, biometric data such as fingerprints and photographs) and a technical platform for sharing information with the visa information system. the report also calls for further devolution of member states' powers by migrating to sis ii, thus underlining its federalist character. this process will add new elements to a database that is accessible to several people, without any guarantee of confidentiality or of non-sharing of this data with other people or organisations. we have always been and continue to be among those who have denounced the high risks to the rights, freedoms and guarantees of citizens which arise from the creation of the schengen area. the migration from sis i to sis ii confirms this trend and deserves our rejection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that a clear community solution to the matter in hand is necessary, rejecting the continuation of an intergovernmental architecture, and because the implementation of the sis ii legal framework will strengthen legal certainty and avoid the burden of costs on the individual member states.
in writing. - i would like to start by congratulating my colleague carlos coelho on the excellent work he has done in preparing the reports on the proposal for a council regulation on the migration from the schengen information system (sis+1) to the second generation schengen information system (sis ii). the sis is the most important instrument in the security of the schengen area, which enhances the existence of a europe without borders, i.e. an 'area of freedom, security and justice'. sis ii is a system for checking our borders which will replace the current system by introducing a set of new functionalities (such as the use of biometric data) in order to respond to the increase in requests and to resolve complaints. this is a more secure system and allows for more efficient use of available data.
in writing. − the schengen information system (sis) is the backbone of a europe without borders and of the area of freedom, security and justice. the second generation of sis (sis ii) will allow the introduction of new data (in particular the introduction of biometric data), new types of alerts and other functionalities, which will enhance security while making smarter use of information. the migration to sis ii is scheduled to start at the beginning of january next year. the sis ii is an essential tool for strengthening the security of the schengen area. for several years the european parliament has been advocating the need for a clearly community solution, rejecting the continuation of an intergovernmental architecture. this is one of the reasons for supporting sis ii. despite the approval of the european commission's proposal, this report, which has my support, considers it essential to strengthen data protection rules and the need to ensure effective supervision of this complex migration. the report also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
in writing. - i approve this report, and i welcome the fact that it puts the european citizen at the centre of infringement proceedings, which play a crucial role in ensuring compliance with european union law. i think it is necessary for the commission to come forward with a proposal now which includes administrative procedures in cases of infringement. in my view, it is essential to give the necessary emphasis to the essential nature of the law, the principle of legal certainty, transparency and proportionality, for a correct and proper application of the law. i also believe that a clear guide is needed to avoid misinterpretation of european union law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that national courts in the member states play a vital role in the application of eu law and that the union's efforts to improve and coordinate judicial training for national judges, legal practitioners and civil servants in national administrations should be fully supported and that action in this area should be promoted in order to correspond to the idea of a union based on the rule of law.
in writing. - as the european union is a legal structure based on treaties and legislative acts, it is essential that these are applied correctly and uniformly in the 27 member states. however, we know that the member states often fail to apply or transpose the rules of european union law on time, or apply or transpose them poorly or incompletely. it is therefore essential that member states do not underestimate the value of the correct and timely application of eu law and that the commission keeps parliament duly informed on the state of implementation of eu law. it is also essential that national courts in the member states play their fundamental role in the application of eu law and that judicial training for national judges and other legal professionals be improved and coordinated so that they have an adequate knowledge of eu law, which is a key step in ensuring uniform and proper application in the various states.
in writing. - we all know the herculean effort that each rule adopted by this parliament requires, from simple contacts to negotiations, commitments, votes, etc., all for the improvement of the quality of life of the european citizens who elected us. however, when we compare all this work with the time that elapses between the adoption of a regulation or a directive by the european parliament and its transposition by all the member states (ms) that are bound by these regulations, we get the feeling that this effort is not properly valued. i voted in favour of the report by mrs lichtenberger on the 28th annual report on the monitoring of european union (eu) law for the year 2010, because it draws attention to some reprehensible practices by member states in failing to transpose community directives into national law or in failing to transpose them in due time, thus encouraging the commission to impose financial sanctions. european citizens and consumers are at the heart of the application of community law and demand that it be applied swiftly. there is no justice if it is not done in a timely manner.
in writing. − this report advances an assessment of the commission's communications on the application of eu law (2010). the 'infringements of the internal market' are the most frequently reported, and are the starting point for the usual and unacceptable procession of pressure on member states to transpose into national law the directives which pave the way for the deepening of the internal market, however harmful they may be to their interests, to the interests of the overwhelming majority of their populations (and they often are). the report advocates financial sanctions for member states that are late in transposing a directive, by taking the matter to the european court of justice. in other words, blackmail outright on the member states to force them to accept taxes regardless of the position and interests of their citizens. this is unacceptable! we voted against it, of course.
in writing. − from the conclusions of the 28th annual report on monitoring the application of eu law, i would highlight the need, as pointed out by the rapporteur, to support all the union's efforts to improve and coordinate judicial training for national judges, legal practitioners and civil servants in national administrations, stressing the need to promote actions in this area in order to correspond to the idea of a union based on the rule of law. it is important to remember that national courts in the member states play a vital role in the application of eu law. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report illustrates parliament's position on the recent commission communications on the application of eu law, in particular the 28th annual report on monitoring the application of european union law for 2010, the second evaluation report of the eu pilot and the communication on updating relations with complainants in the area of the application of union law. the union's efforts to improve and coordinate judicial training for national judges, legal practitioners and civil servants in national administrations should be fully supported and actions in this area should be promoted in order to correspond to the idea of a union based on the rule of law. considering that national courts in the member states play a vital role in the application of eu law, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report illustrates the rapporteur's view on the commission's recent communications on the application of eu law. in addition to other criticisms, there is one position of the rapporteur which has unquestionably led us to vote against the report: the view, expressed in paragraph 31 of the report, that financial sanctions should be imposed on a member state which is late in transposing a directive, and to refer this matter to the court of justice. this is unacceptable, it constitutes blackmail against the member states and a way of extorting resources from their citizens.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that although the extraction of shale gas and shale oil is highly profitable and is already common practice in the united states, canada and europe, it is still at an experimental stage, which makes it essential to take preventive measures, given the high environmental impact of this activity. since many studies and even european public opinion associate this activity with water and soil contamination, i believe that the measures outlined in this report are appropriate, insofar as they present a demanding environmental package, which respects the essential environmental concerns.
in writing. - the extraction of shale gas and shale oil can give rise to a number of different impacts over time, such as during the initial phases with diesel or natural gas fuelled engines to power drilling equipment and pumps, and during extraction by pumps and compressors. disturbances are minimised from the start of extraction, thanks to a surface production equipment that covers a few square metres and silences the production. unlike many other extractive and industrial processes, the decommissioning of shale gas and shale oil wells leaves no trace on the surface landscape. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the environmental impacts of shale gas and shale oil extraction should be taken into account and that public participation should be ensured by means of appropriate public information campaigns before the exploration phase and by means of a public consultation in the pre-exploration phases.
in writing. − gas is expected to play a key role in the transformation of the global energy system, as it contributes to reducing emissions. shale gas and other unconventional gas sources have become potential and important sources of supply in europe and surrounding areas. the 'shale gas revolution' is spreading globally at a relatively rapid rate. according to some estimates, the total shale gas reserves in the eu exceed 56 billion cubic metres, of which some 14 billion cubic metres are technically recoverable. i believe that greater public involvement and awareness of unconventional fossil fuel activities is needed to allow for public understanding, acceptance and confidence in these activities. i believe that this extraction of fuels, provided it respects environmental standards, is a great opportunity to strengthen the economy and increase employment and development in certain regions of the eu.
in writing. − the report is concerned with the prevention of environmental impacts associated with the exploration and extraction of unconventional shale gas and oil, through planning, testing, use of new technologies and best practices, data collection and monitoring. in our view, at the very least, a moratorium should be imposed on the exploitation of shale gas and oil fields, given that these are techniques with large environmental impacts and quite controversial, involving drilling at high depth, bursting the shale layer and injecting water, chemicals and sand at high pressure to obtain the extraction of gas and oil. the environmental impacts of this process are significant and very negative, in terms of groundwater contamination or water courses draining from existing masses, due to the leakage of chemicals resulting from the injection. in addition, it can generate instability in the rocky masses and release methane leaks into the atmosphere. the amendment tabled calling on the member states to adopt this moratorium on hydraulic fracturing operations, which we support, taking into account the principles of precaution and preventive action, as well as the risks to the environment and public health, has unfortunately been rejected.
in writing. − given the rising price of oil and the need to reduce emissions of other greenhouse gases, the use of renewable energy and other non-conventional energy sources is becoming inevitable. given that conventional gas production is declining and that this will make the eu even more dependent on energy imports from third countries, the focus on extracting unconventional gas and oil, in particular shale gas and oil, is important. the diversification of energy sources will contribute to greater security of supply and lower energy prices. currently, some eu member states are engaged in exploration and extraction, with the eu having around 14 million cubic metres of potential to be extracted. however, advanced methods of shale gas extraction may prove to be environmentally harmful, in particular hydraulic extraction. i therefore voted in favour of the report, since it proposes to the commission that the rules on the liability of transnational companies, in particular hydrocarbon extracting companies, for environmental and social rights should be strengthened, as well as possible means of enforcement.
in writing. − this report says it wants to mitigate the environmental impacts associated with the exploration and extraction of unconventional shale gas and oil, through planning, testing, use of new technologies and best practices, data collection and monitoring. in our opinion, that is not enough. at a minimum, a moratorium should be imposed on the exploitation of shale gas and oil fields, given that these are techniques with large environmental impacts and highly controversial, involving drilling at high depth, blasting the shale layer and injection of water, chemicals and sand at high pressure to obtain the extraction of gas and oil. we support an amendment tabled calling on member states not to authorize any hydraulic fracturing operations, taking into account the principles of precaution and preventive action, as well as the risks to the environment and public health, which was rejected by the majority of the ep. we therefore voted against the report.
in writing. - i approve of this report because it not only points to the positive aspects of this type of activity, but also considers an environmental package, voted in parallel, which provides for preventive approaches in industrial and energy exploration and others linked to shale gas and oil. i should also like to stress that we must take account of the benefits of this new type of activity, which is still under-explored in the european union, while taking into account that the environmental aspects have been well safeguarded.
in writing. − i believe that shale gas production has a role to play in the eu in the medium to long term, contributing to the eu's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050 compared to 1990 levels, in the context of reductions by the developed countries group, while ensuring security of energy supply and competitiveness, which is the basis of the energy roadmap 2050. i urge the commission to come forward with recommendations for all shale gas wells in the eu to reduce evasive methane emissions. i believe that the 'polluter pays' principle should be applied rigorously to shale gas and oil exploration activities, particularly in relation to waste water treatment, and that companies should be fully liable for any direct or indirect damage they may cause. for these reasons, and because i agree with the assumptions of the report, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - with the increase in world energy demands, oil, which for decades was the main source of energy, began to show signs that its reserves were running low. this has led to an exponential increase in its price and has encouraged countries to explore alternative sources such as wind, solar, wave, geothermal, etc. but human ingenuity is constantly searching for and exploring other types of fuel. at the moment, attention has been focused on the exploitation of so-called shale gas and oil, a fuel that is widely exploited in the united states and whose stocks on american soil guarantee the energy supply of that country for the next 45 years. at eu level, although its existence is confirmed in several countries in central and eastern europe, there are still many reservations about the value added of this type of fuel, mainly due to fears of the side effects of its exploitation in the areas of health and the environment. i do not think, however, that the eu can afford to miss the train of new energy resources. it should therefore look at all the positive factors, such as the impact on the economy, but also the negative ones, especially in the areas of health and the environment, and look for ways to eliminate or substantially reduce them.
in writing. the report aims to promote the exploration and extraction of unconventional shale gas and oil, citing industrial policy and energy market objectives put forward by the european commission in the context of the desired transition of the energy system to the so-called decarbonised economy. the development of the sector's infrastructure and industry is advocated, and concern is expressed that this should be financially sustainable, aspects which not only give rise to reservations but also exclude the necessary environmental concerns. the capture of shale gas is now a highly controversial technique, which poses major environmental risks, including contamination of ground and surface water, as well as the inherent risks of rock instability. moreover, the return on energy consumed by this extraction method has not been proven to be positive. it would be important to carry out life-cycle energy return on invested energy (eroi) assessments of each of these projects in order to check their economic balance sheet. this is a matter on which a moratorium was at least called for.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil. this document considers a stable regulatory framework to be essential both for creating the right environment for gas companies to invest in areas with shortcomings such as infrastructure and research and development, and for avoiding market distortions. it is also proposed, and i welcome this, to promote the exchange of information and best practice between the eu member states, but also between the eu, the usa and canada. in addition, the twinning of european and north american cities and municipalities that have discovered shale gas is particularly encouraged with a view to transferring knowledge on shale gas development from industry to local communities.
in writing. − this report analyses a wide range of issues relating to the development of shale gas and oil in the european union, including the following: potential reserves in some member states; the impact of shale gas development on the eu market and decreasing dependence on russia; the role of shale gas in energy security; shale gas development in the context of the transactional back-up plan for a decarbonised economy; the licensing framework; public opinion; and, finally, the importance of using best available practices and technologies. i think that this is a matter of great importance and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. the eu has about 14 million cubic metres of shale oil and gas that can be extracted. however, advanced methods of extracting shale gas and oil, in particular hydraulic extraction, may prove to be environmentally harmful. i voted in favour of the report because it proposes that safety and environmental standards be respected, taking as a reference matrix the good practices and legislation already in place in the united states of america and canada (in particular those in the province of british columbia and the province of alberta), countries where shale gas extraction has been taking place for a longer time. in addition to the above, i also consider it important that the commission and the public authorities of the member states review and improve the regulatory frameworks in order to ensure that the exploitation, extraction and marketing of this energy source is done in an economically, socially and environmentally sustainable way in the long term.
in writing. − the report aims to promote the exploration and extraction of unconventional shale gas and oil, taking into account industrial and energy market aspects, in line with the european commission's objective of placing gas as a substantial element in the transformation of the energy system towards the so-called decarbonised economy. the development of the sector's infrastructure and industry is advocated here, and concern is expressed that this is financially sustainable, aspects which not only give us reservations but also exclude the necessary environmental concerns. shale gas capture is today a highly controversial technique due to the environmental impact and complexity of the operation, involving drilling to high depth, bursting the shale layer and injecting water, chemicals and sand at high pressure to provide extraction of the gas and oil. this process poses major environmental risks, including contamination of groundwater or watercourses draining from existing landfills, due to the chemicals resulting from the injection. it also generates instability in the rocky masses and release of methane leaks into the atmosphere. this is a matter on which a moratorium was at least called for. we voted against the report.
in writing. - gas will play a key role in reducing emissions. in this context, shale gas and other unconventional gas sources are becoming potential and important sources of supply in europe, and could bring about radical changes in global energy markets. it is noted that shale gas, which in 2000 represented 1,4% of the us gas market, rose to 17% in 2011. according to some estimates, the total shale gas reserves in the eu exceed 56 billion cubic metres, of which some 14 billion cubic metres are technically recoverable. their exploitation must therefore be studied and all conditions must be created for exploration, extraction and use that is as environmentally neutral as possible and in compliance with all safety standards relating to gas extraction activities.
in writing. - i approve this report as it is essential for the smooth functioning of the internal market and for the full citizenship of the european citizen, irrespective of his member state of origin and his member state of residence. in addition, essential principles should be emphasised, such as the principle of non-discrimination, the assumption that all european citizens, regardless of their origin, place of residence, sexual preference, race, colour, have their freedom of expression and their fundamental rights respected in full respect of european union law.
in writing. − in 2011, the work of the committee on petitions focused mainly on environmental and fundamental rights issues, whether in the discussion of petitions in the committee, new petitions received, reports and hearings, and fact-finding visits. there was an increase in the number of new petitions, while the number of registered petitions decreased steadily, this was due to the new filtering process introduced from june 2011 whereby so-called 'non-petitions' were answered by other services. given that the environment is the area with the highest number of petitions and infringements, representing almost 20% of the total number, the committee on petitions invited commissioner potočnik to its meeting. the commission also carried out fact-finding visits to bulgaria and romania to investigate particularly complex issues on the ground. although a decisive step has been taken in terms of communication to citizens, the committee on petitions reiterates its call for improvements to its internet portal on the european parliament's website. i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the full exercise of the right to petition is essential for the realisation of the european project.
in writing. − the full exercise of the right to petition is essential for the realisation of the european project, hence the relevance of the work of the committee on petitions. in 2011, the work of the committee on petitions focused mainly on environmental issues and fundamental rights/justice, whether in the discussion of petitions in the committee, new petitions received, reports and hearings and fact-finding visits. there was an increase in the number of new petitions, while the number of registered petitions decreased steadily. this was due to the new filtering process introduced from june 2011, whereby so-called 'non-petitions' were answered by other services. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be an effective and objective account of the activities of the committee on petitions in 2011.
in writing. - last year, a total of 998 petitions were considered valid and could be followed up at the level of the institutions, in particular the european commission. i believe that the ep has an important role to play in promoting and encouraging the initiative and participation of european citizens at the origin of possible legislative processes. democracy and european citizenship have much to gain from such participation.
in writing. − one of the fundamental rights of european citizens is to exercise, individually or in association, their right to petition the ep (article 227 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu tfeu) on any matter relating to the activities of the eu and directly affecting them. during 2011, almost a thousand petitions were submitted, of which about 400 were outside the competence of the committee on petitions and were therefore forwarded to other services or archived. this is why there is an increasing number of petitioners whose issues do not fall within the eu's remit. the most common subjects covered in the petitions were: 1. violation of fundamental rights; 2. the functioning of the internal market and 3. attacks on the environment. as for the country of origin, germany is the country with the highest number of petitions, followed by spain and italy. interestingly, the countries targeted in the petitions are, in descending order, italy, spain and germany. i welcome the work carried out by this commission in constructive cooperation with the european ombudsman, who plays a key role as an intermediary between the citizen and the ep and helps to motivate citizens and to build their trust in the european institutions.
in writing. − this report covers the activities of the committee on petitions of the european parliament during 2011, providing a statistical breakdown of the petitions submitted a total of 998, of which 649 were forwarded to the european commission and the remaining were deemed inadmissible. the report covers the most common topics in petitions by citizens or groups of citizens, such as breaches of eu law in the fields of the environment, justice and the internal market, with a significant number of cases concerned with complaints about decisions taken by national authorities or judgments of national courts. taking into account the comparison between 2009, 2010 and 2011, there is a steady decrease in the number of petitions lodged, from 1924 to 1655 and 998 respectively in 2011, i.e. a decrease of 52% compared to 2009 and 60% compared to 2010. this development will be more related to the discrediting of the policies of the european union and its institutions than to a reduction in the reasons for citizens' complaints and dissatisfaction. we will continue to follow closely the complaints that reach the committee on petitions and to do everything in our power to increase the level of complaints and to demand solutions to the legitimate problems raised by citizens.
in writing. − the full exercise of the right to petition is essential for the realisation of the european project. in 2011, the work of the committee on petitions focused mainly on environmental and fundamental rights issues, whether in the discussion of petitions in the committee, new petitions received, reports and hearings, or in fact-finding visits. on the other hand, there was an increase in the number of new petitions, while the number of registered petitions decreased steadily, due to the new filtering process introduced from june 2011, whereby so-called 'non-petitions' were answered by other services. given that the environment is the area with the highest number of petitions and infringements, representing almost 20% of the total number, the committee on petitions invited commissioner potočnik to its meeting. i voted in favour of this report, given the important work of the committee on petitions. although a decisive step has been taken in terms of communication to citizens, i would stress the call by the committee on petitions to improve its internet portal on the european parliament's website.
in writing. − the peti committee notes with concern the increasing number of petitions and other submissions seeking legal or financial redress in matters outside the eu's remit, such as complaints concerning the calculation of national pensions and decisions of national courts. the number of inadmissible petitions was significant until 2011, which indicates that parliament must increase its efforts to inform citizens about the limits of its field of action. efforts to provide citizens with better information should be stepped up to ensure that their concerns are addressed to the right person. the committee on petitions' call for improvements to its internet portal on the european parliament's website is also important.
in writing. − the european citizenship initiative, which came into force on 1 april this year, has enabled registered petitions, i.e. those that have collected more than 1 million signatures from at least 7 member states, to be held public hearings and to reach the european commission for investigation. despite the increase in the number of new petitions, there has been a decrease in the number of registered petitions, as many of them deal with matters outside the scope of union competence. this shows that there is still a long way to go in terms of the knowledge our citizens have about the institutions. i am voting in favour of this instrument because i consider it to be an important step towards closer relations between the union and its citizens.
in writing. − this report summarises the activities of the committee on petitions in 2011, providing statistics on the 998 petitions submitted, of which 649 were forwarded to the commission and the remaining were deemed inadmissible. it also covers the most frequently discussed topics in these documents, such as alleged breaches of eu law in the fields of the environment, justice and the internal market, with a significant number of cases going to the committee on petitions complaining about decisions taken by national authorities or judgments of national courts. taking into account the comparison between 2009, 2010 and 2011, there is a steady decrease in the number of petitions submitted, from 1924 to 1655 and 998 in 2011, respectively, i.e. a decrease of 52% compared to 2009 and 60% compared to 2010, which shows the discrediting of the policies of the european union and its institutions.
mr president, commissioner, two issues that would be worth discussing in depth as we prepare for another climate change conference: the first is the carbon market. the european union, eager to create another haven for financial speculators, to bet on the creation of another billion dollar machine for generating fictitious financial assets, has opted for a market approach instead of a regulatory approach which it could and should have followed. the question is: when will the perversity of market instruments be recognised? the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. secondly, trade liberalization and deregulation. the same european union that is very concerned about climate change is pursuing trade liberalization and deregulation in the rest of the world, which significantly increases the flows of energy and materials and, consequently, the co2 emissions associated with the satisfaction of the most basic human needs. when will this intractable contradiction be resolved?
in writing. bridging the gap between the available scientific data and the current commitments of the parties to the framework convention on climate change is urgently needed. according to a united nations study published this week, greenhouse gas emissions levels continue to rise and are 14% above 2020 targets, with a temperature increase of 3 to 5°c predicted this century in the absence of rapid action. all governments meeting in doha need to raise the bar by ensuring that a legally binding global agreement is finalised to limit global warming to 2°c. the costs of inaction are documented and will be higher if emissions reductions are delayed for decades. the crisis must not therefore reduce the level of ambition in doha. the eu must give a new impetus to international climate negotiations and invest in the transition to a green economy, showing that it is possible to reduce emissions without losing competitiveness and jobs.
blue-card question. – can the security of israel and the defence of its citizens be ensured by postponing the recognition of a palestinian state by the un when we know what the demographics are in the region and that these demographics are against the security of israel if things continue as they are?
mr president, the recession cannot justify the member states' disinvestment in security and defence in this world which is more dangerous because it is deregulated. it is precisely because of the crisis and the challenges we face on a global scale that the european union has to coordinate and integrate security and defence policies, resources and capabilities. this implies moving forward in the permanent headquarters and gathering and sharing human resources, equipment but also financial means. the 'cost-benefit rule' prevents some states from contributing more civilian and military forces and capabilities to csdp missions. the recommendations of this parliament in the reports here - the operationalization of the solidarity clause, cyber defence, the security implications of climate change - are essential for the european union to have strategic autonomy and also serve europeans in this way to assume the commitments they have within nato, the un and other strategic partnerships as security providers on a global scale.
mr president, the reports under discussion here clearly confirm the strengthening of the militarist component, as well as its imperialist and re-colonization pretensions to the planet, which were developed in the treaty of lisbon, by providing that the member states make available to the union civilian and military capabilities in order to contribute to the objectives defined by the council, which are subject to the policies of obligations arising from nato, an interventionist political-military bloc that has occupied countries and massacred peoples for the sake of major economic interests. now it goes even further by establishing the so-called solidarity clause, which provides that states can take military action against a country not only if it is involved in a military conflict, but if it is, they say, the target of cyberattacks or natural disasters. but against whom will they take military action? for what purpose? this package of measures only confirms the european union as a political-military bloc which, by centralising and increasing european armaments, not only denies the values of peace but also constitutes a threat to the freedom and sovereignty of peoples.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, this report is not about finnish. finning is an abhorrent practice of catching sharks for the removal of fins and the discarding of the body, banned in the european union since 2003. the commission proposes to eliminate the derogation, not to finning, but to the cutting of fins on board, which is permitted by a special authorization, and the shipowner must keep, land and market all parts of the captured animal. the ship owners want to keep cutting the fins on board. why would you do that? by cutting the fins they can store fins and bodies separately, which saves space for on-board storage, and allows for increased duration of each trip and available fishing time. so it reduces shore visits, thereby saving fuel and reducing pollutant emissions, it prevents the shark from partially thawing on land to separate fins and bodies, which have distinct markets, and then later being refrozen. this preserves the quality of the fish, safeguards the health of the consumer and does not reduce the value of the fish. these arguments were legitimate for the commission in 2003. what's changed? why did the commission think of taking this initiative? why does the european fleet practice finning? i'm not going to. in 2005 and 2006, the commission and parliament confirmed the absence of finning, and today, often called upon to provide evidence of finning, neither the commission nor the ngos have been able to do so. at a workshop in may, the shark alliance representative publicly stated that it was not the european fleet that was finning. so why are the species that the european fleet catches at risk? i'm not going to. 90% of european catches are of the bluefin tuna, a species with unparalleled biological productivity. the commission has said that it is to put an end to finning, deliberately creating confusion in public opinion. at the same time, urged to justify it, it says that they are suspects after all, and dares to attempt to legislate on the basis of suspicion. despite the absurdity of this position and the serious precedent it sets, i have tried to put forward proposals which would respond to all the concerns raised. if there's any suspicion of finning, we'll step up the surveillance. i propose that the simultaneous landing of fins and bodies be made compulsory in all ports and that shipowners appoint an independent body to monitor landings in ports where control is not ensured. if the problem is the waiver, let's narrow it down. i proposed that the derogation should apply only to freezer vessels, excluding fresh-water vessels. if the concern is shark stocks, let's create the conditions for scientific data. i proposed the basis of a shark action plan, with mandatory extensive data collection on all species caught. the commission said no to everything. however, in your strange drive to push this proposal forward, you forgot to assess the socioeconomic impacts. the sector did, and in a very small estimate it calculated 14 million losses a year to the iberian fleet. the commissioner's proposal is unjustified, harmful and the proposals i have put forward in their entirety fully answer all the suspicions and concerns. so why do these proposals not get unanimous support instead of being voted down by parliament tomorrow? it is here that it is important to denounce forcefully the campaign of disinformation launched by the commission and militantly pursued by the ngos, which, in this particular case, have forgotten the nobility of their citizenship and have resorted to half-truths that lead to false conclusions, to outright lies, to the pressure of the constant presence of e-mails and circulars, but also to the political terrorism of the persecutory identification of those who think differently and their personal defamation on social networks. the pressure from ngos and the national disinterest in this fishery leads many members to opt for the comfortable vote. we all lose. on the eve of the cfp reform, which will inevitably lead to high economic and social costs, the fleet is penalized with an additional loss. the commission is deluding itself into thinking that it can reform the sector, which sees it as a second environment commissioner and sees itself as an orphan, rebelling in the future with the means at its disposal. the ngos that are supposed to protect sharks are losing out because they are breaking the existing excellent relationship of the shipowners with the scientists and making extensive data collection and a shark action plan unfeasible. meps who vote for convenience are increasingly held hostage by ngos. i'm sorry for all of you.
the rapporteur. - mr president, commissioner, this report on small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing was necessary for two reasons. firstly, while the disaster of the current common fisheries policy is relatively consensual, we must not forget that this disaster is felt particularly keenly today by the weakest segments of the fleet, by small-scale fishing and by the coastal communities most dependent on it. secondly, because the european commission's proposals for the reform of the common fisheries policy not only do not solve these problems but contain new elements of concern and threat to the future of small-scale fishing. this report sought to contribute to a more favourable overall approach to the reform of the cfp for small-scale fisheries, to a better consideration of what its problems are, but also of its potential, so as to exploit it as fully as possible. on the other hand, concrete proposals of varying scope are being put forward to support small-scale fishing. let me highlight some of the points in the report and some of its proposals. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european fisheries fund. a local management system that puts an end to the centralised management system that has prevailed for the last 30 years with the known results. the rejection of a single management model for all member states, such as transferable fishing concessions. increased community co-financing for the acquisition, processing and provision of biological data. the promotion of positive discrimination against segments and operators using more selective gear and equipment, with less impact on marine resources and the marine environment, and with greater benefits for the communities in which they operate in terms of job creation and the quality of that employment. the need for a financial instrument for the outermost regions which retains the principle of increasing the intensity of support. the european fisheries and maritime fund also finances actions. actions in the following areas: improving safety and working conditions on board, fish conservation conditions and energy efficiency of vessels; promoting the rejuvenation of the sector, with the entry and retention of young people in the activity; supporting the construction of infrastructure such as fishing ports and facilities for the landing, storage and sale of fishery products; supporting forms of organisation, association and cooperation of professionals in the sector; promoting the role of women in fishing and enhancing activities carried out on land. other proposals include the creation of support mechanisms for emergency situations such as natural and man-made disasters; forced stops of activity, determined by plans for the rebuilding of stocks or sudden increases in fuel prices; the introduction of financial compensation during periods of biological standstill; the possibility of reserve areas of exclusive access for small-scale fisheries; the defence of the public instruments for regulating the markets still in existence; the defence of mechanisms that promote a fair and adequate distribution of added value along the value chain of the sector. all of these are proposals in this report, among others. these are some of the most relevant ones, for which i ask your support. some of them correct serious flaws in the commission proposal. it is not enough to make loud proclamations in defence of small-scale fishing. these proclamations need to be translated into a concrete commitment to support the measures needed to help solve the serious problems facing small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing today.
i would like to say a few words about the external dimension of the common fisheries policy. in my final speech i shall have the opportunity to return to small-scale fishing and to give mr davies a new development: the management of living marine biological resources is an exclusive competence of the european union. it is not even a competence shared with the member states. but we'll be back. as regards the external dimension of the cfp, the current cfp also lacks major changes in its external dimension. the current fisheries agreements with third countries require major changes. the rapporteur has advanced some of them, which we appreciate. a substantial part of the objectives of the fisheries partnership agreements has not been achieved. these agreements have generally been a transfer of funds to developing countries in exchange for the exploitation of their fisheries resources. this is a restrictive view, which we deplore and which runs counter to the spirit and objectives of these agreements. cooperation in the fisheries sector should, in the medium term, promote the exploitation by developing countries of their own resources, both for internal consumption and for export, thus increasing the share of the wealth generated that remains in the country. we stress once again the importance of the formulation of maps, with targets, actions and indicators to monitor the implementation of fisheries agreements in a spirit of partnership. this monitoring shall include the adoption of corrective procedures to be articulated with the third country whenever a departure from the objectives set is noted. a final word on the proposal for a regulation on technical measures. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his willingness to accept the amendment we have tabled. the previous regulation provided for heavy and discriminatory measures against the portuguese fleet fishing for redfish - measures which lacked a scientific basis. we therefore welcome the fact that this amendment has been introduced.
mr president, small-scale fishing should be given special protection under the common fisheries policy, not only because it promotes socioeconomic cohesion and ensures the livelihood of many families, but also because it is a factor in the attachment of these communities to coastal areas. their economic and social sustainability should be an objective, ensuring that they are subject to a differentiated fishing regime that gives priority to access to resources, allows for proximity management and protects the fishing rights enjoyed by the fishermen of those communities against transferable fishing rights. it is also important for their sustainability to take account of the regime of access to waters, especially in regions with marine biogeographical basins, with a small continental shelf and scarce resources, concentrated in seamounts and fisheries that must have protected access. in a context of liberalisation and crisis, which is weighing on fragile regions, it must also be ensured that products from international trade meet the same requirements as those imported by the union.
the rapporteur. - mr president, after what i heard the commissioner say, i conclude that it is regrettable that she has not read my proposals. i am sorry that you do not know that all the countries that follow the tie-flap rule only fish fresh, as i propose. it is regrettable that it is not recognised that, except for taiwan, taiwan has freezers and is currently reviewing the rule you are proposing because of the lack of quality of fish. it is also regrettable that you did not have the honesty to say that there is no funding and that your proposal is a concession to the ngos. after what i have heard from my colleagues, some truly astonishing statements because of their lack of real-world awareness, i hope that they will be better informed before making decisions, which are never inconsequential for people who work and have families.
the rapporteur. mr president, i have just referred to several important proposals in the report on small-scale fishing, for which i asked for your support tomorrow, but i cannot help saying that it would have been possible and desirable to go further in this report. in addition to the proposals i have just mentioned, i have made other proposals which would also be very important in order to give value to small-scale fishing. proposals such as the establishment of a specific community programme to support small-scale fishing, the promotion of differentiated treatment with management schemes and models adapted to the specific characteristics and problems of this sector, support for the renewal and modernisation of the fleet, the possibility of adopting forms of intervention in the value chain of the sector where there are serious imbalances, such as the fixing of maximum intermediation margins for each agent in the chain, using the prices paid for production at first sale, the dedication and extension of the exclusive access reserve area, currently at 12 miles, to adjacent areas, in accordance with the continental shelf. in the case of the outermost regions, this area should be increased from 100 to 200 miles in order to better protect local fleets and the communities most dependent on them, giving them priority in access to resources. unfortunately, these were proposals which were not supported by the majority in the committee vote. but we're not giving up on them. it is good that the commission has corrected its position on the entry of young people into the industry, but it was also necessary for it to correct many other positions, such as the restrictive definition of small-scale fishing that it continues to insist on, such as the attempt to impose a single management model based on transferable fishing concessions which, if adopted, would have disastrous consequences, as you well know, for small-scale fishing in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the spread of the virus. i am quoting the words of the directorate-general for external trade of the union. in effect, china has quickly become the world's second largest economy and the largest global exporter. it therefore presents great opportunities but also great challenges for the european economy. in just two decades, we have gone from a situation where our trade ties were almost nonexistent to today forming the second largest economic partnership in the world. our companies benefit from the tremendous business opportunities presented by the growing chinese market. however, access to this market continues to face many difficulties, even though it has improved in recent years. foreign companies face a number of trade barriers in china that do not exist in the eu market. conversely, chinese exports have benefited immensely from the open market of the european union. chinese penetration is based mainly on low prices. sometimes so unusually low that they cannot be explained by china's equally low wages and equally low environmental standards alone. state subsidies to export industries, massive infringements of industrial property rights and dumping are certainly part of the explanation, as is clear from the report adopted by this parliament last may, entitled 'european union and china: unequal trade'. it was a question to which the report by our colleague mrs sarnez obviously gave a positive answer. both the european union and china have obviously much to gain from intensifying their trade relations, provided that this is done in accordance with the rules of the game, on the basis of fair trade and reciprocity of treatment. however, concerns about china's less fair trade practices have been increasing and have led to the adoption of anti-dumping measures by the european union, as has recently happened in the ceramics sector. but the problem of abnormally low prices is not confined to the traditional sectors. on the contrary, the devastating chinese competition also affects some of the most innovative industries in the european union, including the solar panel industry, which has been seeing a huge increase in imports of chinese products, raising serious concerns about the economic sustainability of that european industry. in these circumstances, the committee on international trade, of which i am chairman, has decided to put an oral question to china, which i am responsible for forwarding to this house and to the commission. i therefore ask on behalf of the committee on international trade: firstly, is the union prepared to give an adequate and timely response to these concerns? secondly, can the commission confirm that it is increasing the volume of imports from china at unusually low prices? what cases have been submitted to the commission? third, the european union and the united states are the main markets for pv applications due to public support schemes for renewable energy. the us anti-dumping measures are likely to affect the eu market, i.e. by diverting exports to the eu. can the commission provide statistics on the mutual ownership of companies in the mobile phone sector based in the european union, the united states and china respectively? question no 4: how does the commission assess the situation of the photovoltaic sector and exports of polysilicon to the european union and does it consider that increased imports from china could harm the european union industry? the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, the establishment of a european energy charter, and the establishment of a european energy charter. finally, how does the commission intend to develop a common industrial strategy with the member states to preserve the industrial competitiveness of the european union? these are the questions my committee has approved. these are the questions to which i await an answer from the european commission.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering first of all that multiannual plans are fundamental for the conservation of fisheries and a useful tool that can be used by the european union. the plan, through the proposed measures, ensures the conservation status of the entire baltic salmon stock, making sustainable exploitation possible. in my view, it is also necessary to take account of catches by non-commercial vessels and therefore such a management plan needs to include measures to deal with this problem.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the level of juvenile production should be set at 80% of the potential capacity for juvenile production in the different wild salmon rivers, in line with the helcom recommendation; that the scope of the regulation should be extended to cover all forms of recreational fishing; that more stringent controls should be applied to catches, with at least 50% of landings in each member state being monitored.
in writing. − the objective of this proposal is to establish a multiannual plan for the management of fisheries in the baltic salmon stocks in order to ensure that their conservation status is favourable and that this stock is exploited sustainably. the specific objectives therefore focus on the need to ensure that baltic salmon fisheries are exploited in a sustainable manner and to safeguard the genetic integrity and diversity of baltic salmon. i could not therefore fail to support these measures which are intended to protect the sustainable fishery of baltic salmon.
in writing. − the sustainable management of fisheries resources is a matter of concern to responsible citizens, environmental organisations and all those responsible for this sector. unfortunately, and despite its very laudable objectives, the truth is that the common fisheries policy (cfp) has not had the desired effect with negative repercussions on both fishing communities and resources. the report under review, by marek józef gróbarczyk, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a multiannual plan for the baltic salmon stock and the fisheries exploiting that stock. the salmon stock is in significant decline, due to the absence of a multiannual sustainable management plan and to unregulated catches which increase recreational fishing, which often takes on a commercial character. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because it is urgent to take measures to protect and safeguard this species in order to eliminate predators (who are responsible for 20% of the catches), protect resources and create economic exploitation conditions for all those who depend on this sector.
in writing. - the report is based on the commission proposal to establish a multiannual plan for the management of salmon stocks in the baltic sea to ensure that the conservation status of baltic stocks, including river salmon stocks, is favourable and allows for sustainable exploitation. the main objectives of the proposal are to ensure that salmon is farmed in accordance with msy (maximum sustainable yield) and that the genetic integrity and diversity of salmon stocks in the baltic are safeguarded. the majority of the amendments in the report are in favour of a greater restriction of salmon fishing, for example a ban on drift-nets. given the specificities of recreational fishing, one of the activities with a high impact on the level of baltic salmon stocks, which is not properly assessed due to the lack of adequate control and the fact that member states do not respect their obligation to transmit the relevant information, a specific framework is proposed to improve control. we supported this report.
in writing. - this report deals with the multiannual plan for the protection of baltic salmon, which is an important element of the management of marine resources in the context of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the report adopted a comprehensive approach and included extensive consultation with the various stakeholders involved in this matter, including professional fishermen, recreational fishermen, non-governmental organisations, the international council for the exploration of the sea (ices), regional advisory councils, the committee of the regions and representatives of local authorities and governments in the different states. this report covered, among other issues, the control of catches, the reproduction of the species and the incidence of predators on baltic salmon stocks. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be an important element in improving the regulation, management, conservation and sustainable exploitation of this fishery resource, which are absolutely necessary conditions for the recovery of the baltic salmon stock.
in writing. the proposal aims to establish a multiannual plan for the management of salmon fisheries in the baltic sea, in order to ensure the conservation status of these marine resources in the context of the common fisheries policy. in order to ensure that this status is favourable, it is necessary to approve the proposal for a regulation which guides member states towards sustainable exploitation, defined by obligations to implement and define conservation measures, ensuring that: (a) the exploitation of salmon stocks is based on the principle of maximum sustainable catches, and (b) that the integrity and genetic diversity of the stocks are safeguarded.
in writing. − the objective of this proposal is to implement a multiannual management plan for fisheries exploiting salmon stocks in the baltic sea, in order to ensure the conservation status of the stock and the sustainable exploitation of the sector. the proposal therefore contains measures such as the obligation for member states to define and implement technical conservation measures and the assistance of the european fisheries fund in the process of re-establishing stocks to achieve the defined objectives. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, stressing that in my view both the omnibus i and omnibus ii legislative packages should have a common approach. while the former concentrates on adapting procedures for implementing acts, omnibus ii concentrates legislation adopted in the system of delegated acts. i am also in favour of the proposal to limit the delegation of powers for a limited period of time (5 years), the main aim being to increase the powers of the european parliament. in a system where the commission still has a lot of powers, i think it is essential to strengthen the powers of the european parliament, giving it an advantage in the negotiations, taking advantage of the treaty on european union, which provides for the strengthening of the institution, to take full advantage of it.
in writing. − the report is based on the amendments introduced by article 290 of the treaty of lisbon and aims to enable the european parliament, as the representative of the eu citizens elected by direct suffrage, to fully exercise its newly acquired powers and to exercise parliamentary control over the executive, while allowing for a flexible, timely and predictable implementation of the common commercial policy. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its rationale and direction.
in writing. − this proposal follows the 'omnibus i' proposal presented by the commission on 7 march 2011. while omnibus i deals with the alignment of implementing measures which do not fall under the 'comitology' system, this proposal aims to bring all other decision-making procedures found in commercial policy legislation under the delegated acts regime. these are in principle procedures based on council decision 1999/468/ec. the aim is to bring existing legislation into line with the legal order resulting from the lisbon treaty.
in writing. - mr jörg leichtfried reports on a proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending other regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the delegation of powers for the adoption of certain measures. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty was an important step in the accountability of the ep, which became a co-decision-maker on many issues, including the european union's (eu) trade policy. in order to speed up procedures, it is necessary to delegate powers to the commission to adopt certain measures. this delegation will be for a period of five years, with the commission being obliged to report on the implementation of all these acts, the authorizations of which may be amended at any time by the delegate: council or ep. i voted in favour of this proposal for a regulation because i believe that the adoption of the acts advocated in it is the best instrument for speeding up procedures, which will certainly contribute to economic growth and job creation within the eu.
in writing. - this report is a follow-up to the 'trace omnibus i' proposal. the aim is to bring the remaining regulations on the common commercial policy (cpc) into line with article 290 of the treaty, i.e. the regime of delegated acts. but we cannot fail to appreciate the deeper significance of this report, taking account of the principle of the treaty and its provisions on trade policy, which is the exclusive competence of the eu. the definition of trading partners and the objectives to guide trade is an important instrument of economic sovereignty. the disposal of this instrument has, in the case of portugal, resulted in serious damage to numerous sectors of economic activity and to the country in general. trade policy has been geared towards maximising the profits of the major economic groups of the eu powers, to the clear detriment of countries like portugal and weaker sectors of economic activity, which have been exposed to fierce and destructive competition. free trade has been one of the main instruments of the ccp, guiding it towards a logic of capitalist competition rather than complementarity and mutual benefit. our profound disagreement with the cpc is an assumption we cannot fail to take into account in the analysis of this report.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the delegation of powers for the adoption of certain measures, is based on the amendments introduced by article 290 of the treaty of lisbon, which are being systematically incorporated into secondary legislation relating to the common commercial policy. the aim of this report is to enable the european parliament, as the directly elected representative of the eu citizens, to exercise its newly acquired powers fully and to exercise parliamentary control over the executive, while allowing for a flexible, timely and predictable implementation of the common commercial policy.
in writing. - this proposal for a european parliament and council regulation aims to adapt 10 regulations on commercial policy to the new primary law provisions of the treaty of lisbon by amending certain regulations on the common commercial policy as regards the delegation of power to adopt certain measures (omnibus i). i voted in favour.
in writing. − in june 2011, the european commission presented a proposal for a regulation amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy, in particular as regards the delegation of powers for the adoption of certain measures. i support this report which aims to bring the regulations into line with the provisions of article 290 on the incorporation of delegated acts into european law. the report aims to enable the european parliament, as the representative of the eu citizens elected by direct suffrage, to exercise its newly acquired powers fully and to exercise parliamentary control over the executive.
in writing. - i approve this report because it avoids a gap in this highly sensitive subject. these measures are aimed at maintaining sustainable fisheries, and this is important for fishermen and the environment. of course, it will be necessary to promote the adoption of these measures with full knowledge of the regional specificities, which is also in line with the principles of the new common fisheries policy.
in writing. − technical conservation measures are guidelines that fishermen across the european union must follow on a daily basis when fishing to ensure that the way and place of fishing complies with sustainability criteria. the measures concern minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh size, fishing defence zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, the criterion for using more selective fishing gear and measures to protect the marine environment and therefore have a considerable impact on the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp). this report fully recognises the need for these measures, which are designed to ensure that fish stocks are fished sustainably and that the ecosystems in which they live are preserved. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - for the european union, and especially for a country like portugal, with a maritime vocation and a strong fishing and canning industry, it is essential to maintain fishing as a viable and sustainable economic activity. portugal needs fisheries and as such it needs the sea to maintain its capacity to give us fish and for species to maintain their reproductive capacity and their genetic integrity intact. that is why i consider it essential that any approach to the cfp should always focus on the dual need to ensure the maintenance of fisheries resources and the protection of economic activities associated with fishing.
in writing. − technical measures lay down rules on fishing zones and fishing gear used as opposed to quantities (fishing effort) and/or catches (tac and quotas) authorised. the commission proposal aims to extend the rules on technical measures for a further transitional period until a new framework is adopted in a regionalised framework for technical measures in accordance with the cfp. the previous regulation included a measure prohibiting fishing with gillnets at depths below 200 m, which was very burdensome and discriminatory for the portuguese fleet fishing for cod up to approximately 400 m deep - measures which lacked a scientific basis. we welcome the rapporteur's willingness to accept our amendment on the use of gillnets in ices subarea ix, subject to certain conditions, with a view to putting an end to this discrimination. the rapporteur has in the end chosen not to vote on the report as amended (but only on the amendments), with the aim of putting pressure on the council to change its position on the multiannual plans and the recurrent attempts to reduce parliament's powers in this area.
in writing. − technical measures for the conservation of fisheries resources define the rules on fishing zones and fishing gear, which are central elements for a regionalised approach to fisheries management. overall, these measures are very important for achieving the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp), covering parameters such as fishing defence zones and periods, minimum mesh size of fishing nets, limitation of by-catches, minimum landing sizes, as well as criteria for the use of more selective fishing gear and the adoption of measures aimed at protecting the marine environment. in addition to extending the validity of the technical measures currently in force, this report proposed an update of the existing measures and the adoption of specific measures aimed at reducing fisheries discards. in addition, the report also envisages the possibility of the national fleet once again fishing for cod with gillnets between 200 and 600 metres deep, thus fulfilling a portuguese request that has been in place for two years. given the importance of these technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources and the safeguarding of the legitimate interests of the national fisheries sector, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − technical measures for the conservation of fishery resources are central elements of a regionalised approach to fisheries management, which set the rules for fishing areas and fishing gear, as opposed to the quantities (fishing effort) and/or catches (tacs and quotas) allowed. technical conservation measures shall ensure that the fishing form and place comply with the sustainability criteria. those measures concern minimum landing sizes, minimum mesh size, fishing defence zones and periods, limitation of by-catches, the criterion for the use of the most selective fishing gear and other regulatory standards aimed at protecting the marine environment and therefore have a considerable impact on the achievement of the objectives of the common fisheries policy (cfp). i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the measures proposed in the report contribute to the sustainability of fisheries policy and the preservation of ecosystems.
in writing. − technical measures for the conservation of marine resources are central elements of a regionalised approach to fisheries management. these measures are guidelines that fishermen must follow when fishing to ensure that the way and place of fishing complies with sustainability criteria. this proposal aims to extend the application of the provisions on technical measures for a further transitional period until a regional framework for technical measures is adopted in line with the common fisheries policy. since the new legislation will not enter into force before the expiry of the transitional technical measures, the commission proposes an intermediate solution, amending the basic legal act with an uncertain expiry date. the 2009 and 2011 regulations will be repealed following the adoption of the commission proposal. in addition to the extension of the validity of the technical measures, the text also contains an update of the existing measures, as well as measures to reduce returns in the north-east atlantic, as agreed with norway and the faroe islands in 2010, but which have not yet been transposed into union law. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the practice of cutting off the fins of sharks and returning the remaining body to the sea is deplorable and as such must be demanded to be completely banned and controlled alongside monitoring of catches of endangered species. another thing is the practice of removing the fins of the shark on board, keeping the carcass on board, with the aim of making full use of the animal and separating and freezing the two parts, carcass and fins, which as we know have destinations for different end markets and whose complete separation after freezing would have a serious detriment to the final quality and value of the products. this is only justified, as one can see, for the freezing fleet and must be subject to strict traceability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i share the commission's concerns about enforcing the 'finning' ban and collecting scientific data for good management, and also because i believe that the legitimate economic and social interests of the sector must be safeguarded and the protection of shark stocks guaranteed.
in writing. - i agree that the derogations or exception to the regulation which already prohibits the practice of removing the fins of sharks on board ships and then returning the rest of the animal's body to the sea should be abolished. i believe that the practice of fining is unacceptable from an environmental point of view because it threatens the sustainability of some of the shark species targeted by this practice, from a social and economic point of view because it involves the waste of a food commodity with commercial value, and also from a moral point of view because it is an act of total disregard for animal life. it is therefore necessary to condemn this practice unequivocally and to take the appropriate measures to ensure that it remains banned from european waters and from the activities of the community fleet, in particular to move towards the monitoring of the prohibition of this practice in order to eliminate any suspicions.
in writing. - this is one of those issues where it is required that policy decision should be supported by a strong scientific basis. the scientific opinion of the portuguese institute of the sea and the atmosphere (ipma) pointed to the maintenance of the existing derogation, that is, that it would continue to be possible to cut the fin on board, although tightening the means of control, in view of the current legislation. in addition to considering that adopting the commission proposal will entail obvious economic losses, which are not justifiable given the current state of conservation of the resources, ipma advances on grounds relating to the quality of fishery products (avoiding freezing, thawing and re-freezing of material), and on the losses this proposal will entail by calling into question the good and cooperative relationship between researchers and the sector for the collection of information necessary for scientists to provide the administration with their opinions, for effective fisheries management and thus ensure the conservation of these resources. our vote was based on this opinion.
in writing. - the european commission proposal provides for the abolition of the current article 4, i.e. the derogation from the prohibition on the removal of shark fins on board community fishing vessels, which is currently allowed by issuing special catch licences granted for this purpose, duly regulated by the articles of this diploma. the rapporteur of this document has decided to maintain the derogation contrary to the commission's proposal. since this proposal was not accepted in plenary, i voted against the final document because it no longer corresponded to the original version and the author of the rapporteur.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering first of all that the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is of great importance, since it establishes a system which allows the cooperation of the participating states with a view to finding a solution to international child abduction, determining the competent courts and the applicable law for the purpose of deciding on the child's place of residence. in addition, recalling the role that the european union has already assumed in terms of exclusive external competence in the field of international child abduction, i believe that for this reason the council should promote the necessary measures as soon as possible to adopt the decisions proposed by the commission, in particular the immediate consultation of parliament.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution for urging the member states to sign the declaration, in the interest of the european union, which will allow eight countries to accede to the convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the council must proceed without delay with the adoption of the abovementioned draft decisions and in this process parliament should have a say in the eight draft decisions.
in writing. − the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction is of great importance as it establishes a system which allows for cooperation between the participating states with a view to finding a solution to international child abduction by determining the competent courts and the applicable law for the purpose of deciding on the child's place of residence. it is therefore urgent that the council take the necessary steps to accept the accession of eight new states to the convention.
in writing. the resolution, tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, following a question with a request for an oral answer tabled by a number of members on behalf of the committee on legal affairs, concerns the declaration by the member states (me) of acceptance, in the interest of the european union (eu), of the accession of eight third countries to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the increased mobility of citizens at european level has increased the number of relationships between people from different countries. as a consequence of this increase, there has also been an increase in the number of separations between couples with children, who end up fighting over custody of the children. often, court decisions are not respected and children are abducted by one of the parents. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution - which was blocked in the council almost a year ago - because it is essential that in the above cases the international community should put the interests of children first and not those of the parents, which is not always the case with some institutions. in the case of international kidnapping, the eu has external competence.
in writing. the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction establishes a system which allows for cooperation by participating states with a view to finding a solution to international child abduction. this convention applies only between countries which have ratified it or acceded to it, and acceptance of accession is therefore of the utmost importance. the interests of children are of paramount importance and their protection must take precedence over any other interest. we believe that it is essential and urgent to establish the most effective ways of ensuring the immediate return of a kidnapped child to the state of his or her habitual residence. hence our vote in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the declaration by the member states, in the interest of the european union, of acceptance of the accession of eight third countries to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction, in which the council is recommended to proceed without delay with the adoption of the abovementioned proposals for decisions, and to this end it should consult parliament on the eight proposals for decisions and in the interest of the european citizens who will benefit from the adoption of these decisions.
in writing. - having regard to the importance of the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction, which establishes a system enabling the participating states to cooperate in order to find a solution to international child abduction by determining the competent courts and the applicable law for the purpose of deciding on the child's place of residence, the european parliament recommended that the council proceed without delay with the adoption of the proposals for a decision on the subject submitted by the commission. it therefore reminded the council that it should consult parliament on draft decisions and that, in the interests of the european citizens who have benefited from the adoption of these decisions, it should refrain from obstructing the proper functioning of the european union by invoking spurious legal grounds. for the reasons i have given, i supported the adoption of the document.
in writing. − i approve this report, starting by urging the council and the commission to ensure that any changes to the itr are compatible with the eu acquis and further the eu's objective and interest of advancing the internet as a genuine public space, where human rights and fundamental freedoms are respected, in particular freedom of expression and assembly, and ensuring respect for the principles of the free market, net neutrality and entrepreneurship. on the other hand, it is important to preserve the development of online services and access to them for end-users, as well as the digital economy as a whole.
in writing. − issues surrounding internet access and management are increasingly central to the debate on international telecommunications. i believe that the common position of the epp and the alde group has reflected a prudent and balanced line on this matter, seeking to ensure that the european position at the next world conference defends freedom of use and access to this medium, human rights and respect for the community acquis. unjustified restrictions would only set back the way we communicate today, which has had the merit of bringing people closer together and of making information and trade flow more freely. while recognising the need to be alert to the crimes that may be committed through the internet, i nevertheless believe that the starting point should be freedom of use and access to the internet and not its limitation or the introduction of economic barriers to its use. i hope that the conclusions of the conference will take up this position.
in writing. - the joint motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) and (4) of the rules of procedure, replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the epp and alde groups, concerns the next world conference on international telecommunications (wcit 2012) of the international telecommunications union, to be held in dubai, united arab emirates, from 3 to 14 december 2012, during which the possible extension of the scope of the international telecommunications regulation will be discussed. i hope that the participation of the european union (eu) and the member states (ms) in this conference will be properly articulated since only ms can negotiate the proposals submitted so that no changes are made which could harm eu interests or limit the development of the acquis communautaire. in dubai, europe must speak with one voice and defend the freedom of internet access that some states would like to curb. i support the revision of the international telecommunications regulations in the framework of the wcit 2012 because it is a good opportunity to improve cooperation between countries in order to raise levels of economic and social development.
in writing. − this resolution seeks to ensure that the council and commission amendments to the regulation are in line with the 'eu's objective and interest in advancing the internet as a genuine public space', without any reference to the importance of truly universal, democratic and inclusive access. the resolution calls for respect for 'human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression and assembly'. we agree. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive. concern is expressed that 'itu proposals include the creation of new profit mechanisms ... raising prices and hindering innovation', which falls short of the necessary rejection of such profit mechanisms and a reversal of these policies, as some of their harmful effects are recognised. in the alternative, we signed a resolution which we regret was not adopted, as it was the only one to say that 'telecommunications and the internet are and should remain public goods, as this is the only way to ensure universal access to both and their democratic control'.
in writing. the resolution also calls on the commission to take the necessary steps to ensure that the eu's telecommunications policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. among the concerns raised, i would highlight the call on member states to prevent any changes to the international telecommunications regulation that could harm the openness of the internet, net neutrality, universal service obligations, creative content online and participatory governance by multiple actors such as governments, supranational institutions, non-governmental organisations, small and large enterprises, the technology community and internet users and consumers in general.
in writing. − the amendments to the international telecommunications regulation (itr) should be compatible with the eu acquis and should further the objective and interest of the internet to progress as a genuine public space, respecting human rights and fundamental freedoms. i am voting in favour of this resolution because i believe that the internet should remain free and open to citizens, that it should be multilateral and bottom-up, and that online services and the digital economy should be promoted. finally, the internet should be a space of freedom, ensuring respect for the principles of free markets, net neutrality and entrepreneurship.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that the fight against climate change must remain a priority, both at european and international level. i believe that the fight against climate change, in addition to its objective in itself, also contributes to sustainable growth, more employment and less dependence on imported energy sources. the european union must therefore show leadership at this conference, speaking with one voice, representing the 27 member states of the european union, in the pursuit of progress towards an international agreement.
in writing. − with just a few days to go until the cop 18 climate change conference in doha, 26 november to 7 december, it is relevant to know what steps the council is taking to ensure that the un framework conference on climate change produces concrete progress and results, especially with regard to the necessary modifications to the kyoto protocol, before the second commitment period which will start on 1 january 2013. equally important is to set an example by respecting your commitments in terms of funding and meeting the objectives you set.
in writing. - the motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled pursuant to rule 115 (5) of the rules of procedure, following a number of questions for oral answer, concerns the conference on climate change to be held in doha, qatar, from 26 november to 7 december 2012. the recent natural disasters that have affected several countries, including italy, the united states of america (hurricane sandy) and portugal, and caused not only dozens of victims but millions of euros in damage, should lead governments to take the necessary environmental measures to prevent the average temperature of the globe from continuing to rise with the consequences we all know. although the cost of reducing greenhouse gas emissions may be high, it will always be far less than the consequences of not taking these measures. i therefore hope not only that the kyoto protocol will be extended, but that its objectives will be increased, that it will be extended to include developing countries and that it will be ratified by the largest emitters of greenhouse gases: the united states of america, china and india.
in writing. - this resolution aims to set out guidelines for the eu's mandate at cop 18. a reinforced approach is proposed in the run-up to the second commitment period of kyoto, calling for increased ambition by 2020 and seeking new sources of funding. the aim is to introduce robust accounting rules for 'land use', land use change and forestry, as well as for the reduction of emissions from deforestation and forest degradation, in particular with regard to the technical assessment of forest reference levels. while we agree on some points, we strongly disagree on others: the advocacy of creating a global carbon market, with "links between the eu emissions trading scheme and other emissions trading schemes", at a time when the ineffectiveness and perversity of this market approach is clearly visible; the advocacy of assigning a bargaining value by assigning a price to the "goods and services" provided by biodiversity; the halfway point towards the commodification and private appropriation of nature and its resources; the removal, as a result of the plenary vote, of the reference to patents (saying that developing countries will not be obliged to purchase them). that is why we voted against the report.
in writing. - the ep is calling for the adoption of a new directive on the protection of the environment and for the protection of the environment from harmful substances and their by-products.
in writing. − the doha conference (cop 18) should build on the momentum achieved in durban to ensure that a legally binding global agreement is finalised in 2015. this agreement should be consistent with the principle of 'common but differentiated responsibilities and respective capabilities' and should recognise the need for all major emitters to adopt ambitious and sufficient targets and corresponding policy measures for the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions. the european parliament welcomes the establishment of the ad hoc working group on the durban platform for enhanced action, noting that decision 1/cp 17 requires the working group to start work on a legally binding document under the convention, applicable to all parties, as a matter of urgency and to conclude this work as soon as possible, and at the latest by 2015. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve the report because i believe that we need to reaffirm our support for the european union's external policies and recent enlargement processes, and we must always learn from all processes. i also think it is important to stress the social role complementary to the economic role of the applicant countries, and civil society in the european union and the applicant countries should be given the opportunity to express their views. i therefore welcome the proposal to include civil society organisations, trade unions and other beneficiaries of the pre-accession instrument fund in the enlargement process, as a key step towards better addressing social issues, labour rights and sensitive historical issues relating to ethnic and religious minorities. all this effort is necessary if we want a european union based on the values on which it is founded. in addition, the european parliament, in my view, must send a clear message that, despite the economic crisis, the eu must continue its enlargement policy which has proved to be a tool in consolidating democracy and stability in the candidate countries.
in writing. − the enlargement policy must take account of the particularities of the applicant and strictly respect the criteria and principles of the european union. in order to remain a credible process, access to the union must be transparent, balanced and fully respect the merit of the applicant. it is essential to pay the utmost attention to judicial reform and the fight against corruption and fraud from the very beginning of the evaluation process. i voted in favour of this report because i think the commission's decision is in the direction i have indicated.
in writing. − a well-planned enlargement policy could prove to be a successful strategy for the eu's economic development. since 1973, when the eu was first enlarged, it has been growing. this policy has been beneficial for the european union as a whole. it allows for the creation of conditions to address global challenges, prevent conflict, foster stability, stimulate reforms and consolidate peace. any state wishing to join the eu will have to commit itself to the values of freedom, equality, democracy and respect for human rights; the european union is built on these values. the enticing prospect of eu accession has had significant impacts on the candidate countries; the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat fraud. candidate countries should be subject to an evaluation process where their own merit and compliance with the established criteria are at stake. the union is responsible for facilitating integration and for analysing the european aspirations of the applicants. however, it is important to be cautious about whether the union is able to successfully integrate new countries, which is particularly sensitive in a context of economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - believing that the european union should continue to support the accession process of the candidate countries provided that they are willing to accept the legacy of the community acquis and to meet the criteria imposed by the accession process, i voted in favour of this report. as i have had the opportunity to argue, to overcome the dramatic crisis we are experiencing, we need more europe. walk to a federal solution! greater economic, monetary, fiscal, social and political harmonization we have a critical mass of 500 million citizens, a trade surplus that overshadows the united states and china, a currency that in a decade has become the second largest in the world (hence much of the reason for the attacks of the commonly called "markets"), and a social model that is the envy of all other continents (which we will have to reform, however, because its sustainability is compromised). i also believe that we need, as a political entity, a genuine common foreign and defence policy. only then will we project our economic weight.
in writing. − the 2012 nobel peace prize was awarded to the european union (eu) for its contribution, over more than 60 years, to the advancement of peace and reconciliation, democracy and human rights in europe. the six founding states have been joined by 21 others, and others are interested in joining. the report, by maria eleni koppa, focuses on the enlargement of the eu to other countries, taking account of the eu's policies, criteria and strategic interests. everyone recognises that countries have significantly improved their quality of life by joining the eu. however, the applicant countries will have to prove their respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law and that they are not involved in conflicts. i welcome the adoption of this text, which is intended to maintain and strengthen the eu's enlargement policy - one of the most successful policies - and which proves the openness of the european project, based on the criteria of the copenhagen treaty. i would like to see no budgetary cuts in the enlargement chapter, but i understand that the financial situation requires it. we must therefore spend eu resources better.
in writing. − the enlargement of the eu to new countries, if it is to take place, must be the result of a sovereign decision of the peoples and countries concerned and respect their right to economic and social development. this report does not guarantee that these requirements will be met, and that is why we voted against it. the report also defies the principles of the united nations charter and international law. the 'new negotiating approach' advocated in the report is even more intrusive, imposing economic and social models and models of political systems and democracy that clash with the right of peoples to self-determination in accordance with their interests and aspirations. the majority of meps believe that the 'general interests of the eu' should prevail over the interests of the people and over 'disputes' between countries wishing to join. in the 'case of inability to reach a bilateral agreement', these countries must submit to a 'binding arbitration mechanism of their choice', i.e. the attempt to impose the eu's interest on sovereignty disputes. in particular, it is an attempt to force serbia to accept the secession of kosovo, which is advocated by the eu and nato, and cyprus to accept the accession of turkey, in a framework in which turkey maintains its occupation of the northern part of the former.
in writing. − the european project, as a project to promote peace and economic and social equity among peoples, is part of the very notion of enlargement. in this context, i am in favour of the progressive enlargement of the european union to include other countries and other peoples. in any event, i believe that this enlargement must take account of the european union's own capacity to integrate new states while maintaining the standards of respect for human rights and the promotion of social justice. in the present economic and social crisis, this imperative is even stronger. in this context, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - parliament strongly supports the enlargement process. it is important for the eu and the candidate countries to see that all obligations are fulfilled and respected, ensuring that the necessary conditions are created for a successful future enlargement. parliament considered that the copenhagen criteria should remain the fundamental basis for future enlargements. the committee on foreign affairs proposes a new approach for future negotiating frameworks that gives priority to issues related to the judicial system and fundamental rights, as well as justice and home affairs. any acceding state (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, iceland, kosovo, montenegro, serbia and turkey) must also resolve its main bilateral problems and major disputes with neighbouring countries, particularly those relating to territorial issues, before it can join the union. the possibility of developing an arbitration mechanism to settle possible disputes between these states and their neighbours should therefore be considered.
in writing. − it is of vital importance for the eu and the candidate country that all obligations and commitments arising from the accession process are fulfilled by both sides. the accession/enlargement process should be carefully assessed, and the socioeconomic effects for both parties should be taken into account. the union should take into account not only the social implications of accession in the candidate country, but also its capacity for integration. in this context, it is important that the union maintains and strengthens the mechanisms for monitoring and socioeconomic support during the accession process. the new approach to be introduced in the new negotiations, giving priority to issues relating to justice and internal administration and insisting that new applicant countries should only join after they have resolved territorial disputes and/or other bilateral problems with their neighbours, helps to avoid deadlocks within the union itself. i also agree with the rapporteur's call for the commission and the council to set up an arbitration mechanism to settle bilateral and multilateral disputes. for the reasons set out above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for a two-state solution, with the state of israel and an independent, democratic and viable state of palestine coexisting side by side in peace and security, and called for the creation of the necessary conditions for the resumption of peace talks between the two parties. given that the blockade of the gaza strip and the humanitarian crisis in the area continue, despite the numerous calls by the international community for the opening of the border crossings to allow the flow of humanitarian aid, goods and people to and from gaza, also reiterated in the council conclusions of 14 may 2012, i express my deep concern at the situation in gaza and in israel, and deeply regret the loss of civilian lives, including women and children. all attacks must cease immediately, to the extent that they cause unnecessary suffering to innocent civilians.
in writing. - in recent days we have seen a renewed focus on the israeli-palestinian issue. we cannot but deeply regret the victims of a conflict which threatens to go on without end unless two conditions are met: the security of the state of israel and its inalienable right to protect its people, and the right of the palestinian people to build its own state peacefully and freely. without these two conditions, i fear that everything will remain the same and that divisions, tension and the desire for revenge will deepen and that we will see a future upsurge in violence. the portuguese government, through its foreign minister, has recently expressed its willingness to recognize palestine as an observer state of the united nations in principle, in order to provide it with the means and to instill in it and its inhabitants the desire to seek political solutions to their problems. i support this decision and congratulate the house on taking the line which i think is the most appropriate.
in writing. the joint motion for a resolution under consideration, tabled pursuant to rule 110 (2) and (4) of the rules of procedure, replacing the motions for resolutions tabled by the ppe, alde, s&d, greens/efa, ecr and alde groups, concerns the situation in the gaza strip, where the conflict between palestine and israel has dragged on for more than a week, with more than a hundred dead and hundreds injured, in addition to all the material damage involved. i would like to congratulate the ceasefire agreed after several failed attempts and i hope that it will be lasting and will lead to an understanding between the parties to the conflict. the approach of the united nations general council to the examination of palestine's request to be considered a un observer may have been at the origin of the conflict. but nothing justifies this violation of human rights. israel has the right to protect its people, but it also has an obligation to respect its neighbours. i support the commission's proposal that the eu continue to support the search for a solution which will obviously require recognition of palestine as a sovereign state and i urge the parties to allow available support (food, water and medicine) to vulnerable families through humanitarian corridors.
in writing. - this resolution is a repetition of the recurrent operations of whitewashing the violent israeli occupation and oppression of the palestinian people. on the assumption that there was a 'conflict' between two parties, it welcomes the 'ceasefire' and mystifies what actually happened and is happening in palestine: the continuing occupation and aggression, the recurrent massacres, the systematic violation of the signed agreements and un resolutions concerning palestine and the palestinian people and the continuation of the apartheid policy by the israeli authorities and army. moreover, it minimizes israeli aggression and its causes and condemns the legitimate right of the palestinian people to resist. it whitewashes israel's responsibility for the deaths of more than two dozen people, including civilians and children and political leaders, who were targeted for assassination, as well as israeli missile attacks on syrian territory. it whitewashes the actions of the main imperialist powers, namely the us and eu countries and the dictatorial monarchies in the region, in destabilising the whole region. israel's criminal escalation of violence cannot go unpunished. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution in the hope that measures will be taken to enable the reconstruction and economic recovery of gaza.
in writing. - on 21 november, a ceasefire was agreed, bringing an end to the escalating violence between israel and the gaza strip. i consider that this unjustifiable resurgence of violence has caused unacceptable losses to the civilian population. i would also like to stress my displeasure at the continued blockade of the gaza strip which is creating a humanitarian crisis. there must be a prevention of arms smuggling, but not a blockade of humanitarian aid and the flow of people and goods.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering it essential to remember that since the adoption of the treaty of lisbon, the european union has instruments in this field which can be used. i therefore think it would be useful to review this policy, particularly in the light of the european neighbourhood policy and the middle east, nuclear proliferation in iran, the change in us strategy now directed towards the asia-pacific region and, finally, the economic and financial crisis. all these elements show that a position on the part of the european union is urgently needed, not in the sense of militarizing itself, but as an instrument of collective defence based on the sharing of resources.
in writing. - the european union has the potential to pacify troubled regions. since 2003, the eu has carried out 19 civilian missions and 7 military operations. in the future, europe's capacity to respond to such challenges must be further strengthened. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu must develop a common security and defence strategy, more autonomous and more cohesive, while at the same time respecting its transatlantic alliances and relations.
in writing. − issues involving common security and defence, because they touch at the heart of member states' sovereignty, have evolved in a prudent way, but not always in a way that adequately responds to actual geostrategic challenges. in the face of global threats and the strategic devaluation of the atlantic area for the benefit of the asia-pacific region, it is clear that we must seek to respond to them by increasing the capacity and coordination of means and the actual and potential projection of forces. unfortunately, there are areas of tension and instability near the union's borders, which cannot but cause apprehension and motivate military vigilance and readiness. in this context, it is particularly important that the union should not only provide itself with the means but also strengthen its alliance with the united states and increasingly take on the burden-sharing part of the common effort to protect democracy and human rights. european society, fortunately largely free of armed conflict for some time now, has become accustomed to downplaying the importance of security and defence. policy makers should seek to reverse this trend and promote respect for and the need for the armed forces and the military condition.
in writing. - the enlargement of the european union (eu) to the east has brought peace to a large part of europe which was still, if not in an explicit conflict, at least in a latent one. the fall of the berlin wall and the end of the union of soviet socialist republics has emptied the role of military organizations such as nato. in reality, europe has never been so prosperous, secure or free as it is today. the report on the implementation of the common security and defence policy (csdp), drawn up by mr arnaud danjean on the basis of the annual report from the council to the european parliament (ep) on the common foreign and security policy, draws attention to the need to improve our action, given the economic crisis member states are experiencing and the focus of nato's attention on a part of the world (africa and asia) other than europe. i welcome the adoption of this report, which i supported, which contains a very positive approach to the csdp, especially in times of budgetary austerity, because i agree that the eu cannot leave its defence to nato alone. the eu should therefore increase cooperation between member states and establish synergies between the csdp and other policies.
in writing. the majority of parliament advocates eu military autonomy through investment in defence and military armaments, 'sharing' and 'mutualization' of resources, permanent structured cooperation between 'countries with more ambitious criteria in terms of military capabilities', strengthening the role of the european defence agency, increased operability of rapid intervention groups, closer relations with nato. these developments are inseparable from the needs for access to and control of natural and energy resources on which the eu monopolies depend. the majority of the european parliament makes its ambition very clear here: the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. a policy that finally fulfils the eu's role as the european pillar of nato. it is only a position of the european parliament, but it highlights the need for democratic breakthroughs in the eu, with a process of demilitarisation and disarmament, the dissolution of nato and the creation of a collective security system which respects and ensures the sovereignty of states and the free choice of peoples.
in writing. − the eu is intended to be a global political actor in the international context, promoting international peace and security. in the context of this responsibility, which includes the security of its citizens, i voted in favour of this report, which sets out a new strategic framework for the common security and defence policy, arising from the many changes at the geostrategic level.
in writing. − the major changes taking place in the geostrategic context of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the csdp, in particular following the turmoil in the middle east and north africa (including revolutions, conflicts and/or regime change in libya, tunisia, egypt, syria) and the emergence on the international scene of new players with regional and even global ambitions, as well as the reorientation of the us defence policy priorities towards the asia-pacific region, imply that the eu should develop its civil and military capabilities by implementing practical measures to enable it to respond appropriately to these new challenges. the main aim is to enable the eu to assert itself as a global political actor in the international context, and to be able to assume its responsibilities in the face of international threats, crises and conflicts, especially in its neighbourhood. i voted in favour.
in writing. − the geostrategic environment in which the european union (eu) finds itself and the challenges it faces are forcing the institutions, in particular the council, to rethink the common security and defence policy. it is a fact that the eu's main partner, the united states of america, is giving increasing importance to the pacific to the detriment of europe. i agree with the rapporteur that the eu external action service needs to be strengthened in the area of crisis management and that greater cooperation between member states on common defence policy needs to be encouraged. greater cooperation in defence, including in terms of technology, military industry and intelligence sharing, should be promoted. such measures should be adopted within the framework of a strategy drawn up in advance, because only then will a real implementation of the lisbon treaty be possible, namely: permanent and structured cooperation, the application of the mutual assistance and solidarity clauses and a more active role for the european defence agency.
in writing. - i welcome this report because it is not about creating a new instrument but about bringing together and better coordinating different instruments to enable an effective response, so that appropriate solidarity can be provided when a member state sees its capacities exhausted. i also believe that in a time of financial crisis it is essential to identify solutions for joint investment and joint development of the member states. the need for a rapid response combined with a contribution from each country within a flexible framework may well meet many defence needs in the european union area.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu should develop a policy of prevention and rapid response to any and all identified threats to the union or to any member state.
in writing. − the mutual defence and solidarity clauses are two mechanisms based on the same idea of union and solidarity between member states in times of particular adversity such as military interventions, terrorist attacks or natural disasters. the use of appropriate and available means to assist a state in a crisis of this nature is a natural consequence of the idea that in a united europe, the problem of one must be the problem of all, and where it is not possible to solve it individually, it must be sought collectively. as i have written, in addition to being united in diversity, the union must remain united in adversity. the clarification of the scope of these clauses and the provision of means to enable them to be used quickly and flexibly, if necessary, should be in the minds of key policy-makers who should stimulate synergies, cooperation and the exchange of information. the idea that the european union should cooperate actively with nato, and that nato today has aspects which go far beyond its purely military component, expands the potential sources of solidarity in the event of a crisis but also requires a serious commitment on the part of everyone.
in writing. the european union, as an area of free movement of people and goods and where the functioning of an increasingly prosperous single market is to be sought, must assume the role of a unifying entity and a catalyst for an ever stronger feeling of territorial cohesion. we need more and better europe, not just on paper but above all in practice. the treaty of lisbon reinforces this aspect: we need a genuine common security and defence policy (csdp) that protects european citizens and strengthens solidarity between member states. sometimes we have the means to act, but we lack the motivation from some institutions. to strengthen solidarity, of which the european globalisation adjustment fund is a good example, it is necessary to provide it with financial resources as a way of responding to natural disasters more efficiently. i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr ioan mircea paşcu. i welcome the commission's greater technical and political commitment and hope that we will soon be able to move forward with the operation of the eu headquarters to have a greater capacity for intervention.
in writing. - under the lisbon treaty, the 'mutual defence clause' transforms the eu into an alliance with a stronger military bond, and the 'solidarity clause' paves the way for military interventions on eu territory. the explicit 'obligation' to respond 'by all means' in the event of aggression against a member state goes even further than the nato clause, since it also includes unarmed attacks. under the solidarity clause, military support is requested in the event of terrorist attacks and natural or man-made disasters (whose scope is unclear: social unrest, resulting from strikes? protests?), which implies the conduct of military operations on eu territory. the solidarity clause can also be activated in the event of cyberattacks, pandemics and power cuts. this report is inseparable from the crisis in the eu, the looting of countries like portugal, the exploitation of workers and people, the regression in rights, the loss of sovereignty and the regression in political and democratic freedoms. but it is at the same time inseparable from the growth of the struggle and the fear that the capitalist monopolies and the political forces at their service have of the emergence of processes of emancipation of the peoples.
in writing. − considering that the security of eu member states must be shared and that all european citizens must have the same security guarantees and an equal level of protection against conventional and unconventional threats, i voted in favour of this report on eu mutual defence and solidarity clauses: political and operational dimensions.
in writing. the common security and defence policy has two important principles underlying it: the solidarity clause and the mutual defence clause. these two clauses have different implications when 'activated', but both require member states not only to cooperate more closely but also to develop their military capabilities. an integrated approach to attacks and/or disasters which may affect the european union as a whole has to be created by creating a system of coordinating means of response to the most diverse types of crisis. only then will the union be able to realise the full potential of the provisions of the treaties. for the reasons set out above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − i welcome this report, drawing attention to the need for better coordination and coherence in cybersecurity and cyber defence. only in this way will we be able to better meet your challenges, which in my view require member states to develop their own cybersecurity and cyber defence plans, alongside an approach of their own to this issue by the european union as a whole. i think the european union should be careful, starting to deal directly with the private sector for a faster exchange of information, always respecting the anonymity of private sector partners, ensuring a balance between security measures and the defence of fundamental rights and freedoms. in particular, the european union should invest in its transatlantic relations with the united states in order to strengthen cooperation in this area.
in writing. − cybersecurity is a colossal challenge for the european union. cyberattacks are an undeniable threat to the defence, stability and competitiveness of the european space. the rapporteur notes that the digital sphere is becoming increasingly aggressive and stresses that the vast majority of threats in this area are currently politically motivated. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the eu must take measures to ensure the safe use of information and digital technologies and to provide reliable services and infrastructures for cybersecurity and cyber defence.
in writing. − dependence on information and communication technologies and on cyberspace is a reality at virtually all levels of society. an attack on some of these most important assets risks having practical consequences in terms of the security and defence of populations and the infrastructures that serve them, compromising communications and transport, rendering health systems unable to act, triggering the activation of military arsenals, exposing and misappropriating defence and trade secrets, allowing the diversion of funds, among many other negative possibilities. in short, it is putting at risk the free and peaceful coexistence of citizens and the survival and balance of their communities and the environment around them. it is well known that real wars are now fought at the computer level and that cybersecurity issues call for a real cyber defence of the key points of member states' systems and a relentless fight against cybercrime. the european union and its member states cannot ignore the urgency of this fight and must provide themselves with the best human and technical resources to develop it and coordinate their action among themselves and with nato.
in writing. - the era of globalisation has invaded the modern world. what happens thousands of miles away can also affect us, and much so. today, the "information highways" are filled with a remarkable amount of data that, if used well, can do much to improve our quality of life. however, when accessed by those with bad intentions, it can have highly damaging effects. the report by tunne kelan focuses on the issue of cybersecurity and cyberdefence. this is a matter of great interest to which not all ms are aware, as evidenced by the fact that only 10 ms have adopted a prevention strategy against high-damaging aggressors. piracy and cyber attacks against public administrations are common and will certainly increase as the social and economic crisis worsens. we must therefore protect our structures against this kind of terrorism which does not use explosives. i voted in favour of this report which highlights the need to improve our cohesion and to establish a regulatory framework which not only punishes cybercrime but also protects citizens - children and young people in particular - and public and private institutions from the threats posed by the misuse of the internet.
in writing. − we recognise the importance of ensuring that people are safe and secure when using the internet and the infrastructure that supports the service. as the report points out, there are 2 billion connected users worldwide. the internet is a powerful medium for spreading ideas, democratizing access to knowledge and facilitating a growing set of services. but this report is alarming because it is part of a security strategy which is deeply damaging to the freedom of expression of the people and their democratic rights. it brings into the pseudo-justifications for the application of the eu's solidarity and mutual defence clause (lisbon treaty) the "cyberattacks". it also calls for cybersecurity to become an active capability of the common security and defence policy, i.e. the militarisation of control over the internet. it advocates the establishment of public-private partnerships in this area, thereby transferring public resources to software and hardware monopolies through the european defence agency. he also called for the eu and nato to pool and share resources. the icing on the cake is the proposal that juvenile offenders convicted of cyberattacks be rehabilitated and integrated into defense agencies and bodies.
in writing. − considering that the strengthening of trust between the private sector and the security forces and services, defence institutions and other competent authorities is of the utmost importance for the fight against cybercrime, i voted in favour of this report which presents forms of action articulated between these entities.
in writing. − this report aims to strengthen the safe use of digital and information technologies and to strengthen the resilience and reliability of information services and related infrastructures. the rapporteur therefore calls for the development of a comprehensive cybersecurity and, where appropriate (at eu and member state level), a cybersecurity and defence strategy that can respond to cyber emergencies, through the development of national emergency plans. the report encourages member states to create dedicated cybersecurity and cyberdefence units integrated into their military structures and to make research and development one of the key pillars of cybersecurity and cyberdefence, encouraging the training of engineers specialised in the protection of information systems.
in writing. − the concept of security extends beyond land borders and countries as nation-states. for these reasons, a strategy to combat cybercrime is necessary at union and member state level. a cybersecurity and cyber defence strategy requires coordinated action between the union and the member states. the development of information and digital technologies now allows any citizen to challenge a government system or access sensitive data. i therefore support the union's proposal to develop a common strategy and complementary actions with the main eu partners. however, i would also like to stress that the concepts of cybersecurity and cyber defence should not call into question respect for the rights and guarantees of european citizens.
in writing. - i support this report because i believe there is a clear need for stronger multilateral cooperation and better global governance on climate security. in my view, the european union, as a major global player in the environment, should start thinking about mitigating the main effects of climate change in its most important security strategies. the european union must also, as a symbol of innovation, make its mark on the world stage as a champion of the use of green technologies for military purposes, since we are already clearly behind the united states in this respect.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that climate change and natural disasters have an impact on the security and stability of societies, both economically and politically, and that the eu should take these factors into account in its foreign policy.
in writing. - several observers point to the climate issue as one of the main likely causes of future conflicts. the european union must take this into account when formulating its security and defence policies. some regions of the globe will be particularly prone to such conflicts. the european union will have to devise ways and means of meeting the challenges it faces. you already have a number of tools at your disposal which you should make full use of. the question of the union's energy dependence is particularly important and cannot be left out of this reflection and our future action.
in writing. - recent natural disasters, which are occurring more or less everywhere, such as the recent hurricane sandy in the united states of america (usa), emphasise the growing need to equalise climate change mitigation measures. this report, by indrek tarand, focuses on the role of the common security and defence policy (csdp) in climate-related crises and natural disasters. we might be tempted to think that climate change doesn't affect us because we live far from the coastline and sea level rise won't hit us, nor do we build on water lines or inconsistent soils, etc. this is not only a selfish position but also a wrong one. the consequences of climate change affect all people, directly or indirectly. it is therefore urgent to improve preventive measures and our climate security, especially in the most vulnerable areas. we must not forget that climate change has a direct impact on security and the economy, and can lead people to emigrate to other parts of the globe. finally, a word to stress the need for cooperation at international level, particularly with the usa and emerging countries responsible for high greenhouse gas emissions.
in writing. the report starts by manipulating legitimate fears about crises caused by more or less extreme weather events and natural disasters, to elevate them to the category of 'the greatest threat to security in the world'. it thus seeks to justify the deepening of the eu's militarization process, the development of military capabilities by the european defence agency, the strengthening of coordination between nato and the eu in the field of 'meeting and sharing' and 'intelligent defence' projects while respecting the 'specific activities' of both organisations. these priorities confirm what we have been saying: that the process of militarization of the eu is making the eu the european pillar of nato. the real aim is to respond to the intensifying global struggle for access to and domination of the regions from which the eu monopolies depend on the energy resources and key raw materials. the emergence or threat of conflicts in third countries due to climate phenomena will only be effectively resolved if their causes are properly identified and addressed. there can be no solution unless neo-colonialism, the destruction of national sovereignty, the economic domination of capitalist monopolies are put to an end, that is, unless a dominant production system based on the exploitation of nature and man is defeated.
in writing. − complex crises must be prevented through a comprehensive approach with policies making full use of the instruments available under the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the common security and defence policy (csdp), as well as humanitarian and development aid policies. i believe that this approach can have a positive effect on combating climate-related crises and natural disasters, and i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − climate change and its socioeconomic consequences pose challenges to the common security and defence policy. the conflicts that have emerged in the horn of africa and the sahel have been triggered by climate change in these regions. the high representative should therefore take climate change into account by placing it at the heart of risk analyses for civilian and military missions. the need to take account of climate change should be a cross-cutting issue for the entire external action service of the european union. an integrated approach must be created by establishing a system for coordinating the means of responding to the most diverse types of crisis, a system which should be in permanent contact with the un, nato and ngos. for the reasons set out above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i approve this report because i consider a strengthened partnership with kazakhstan to be extremely useful, both because of its geostrategic situation and because through our partnership we can implement important processes of civil, institutional and political reform. however, i consider it essential to stress the need for kazakhstan to demonstrate a deep commitment to show progress on universal rights, democracy, the rule of law, labour and social rights.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with its assumptions.
in writing. − kazakhstan has played an important role in central asia, in developing good relations with neighbouring countries and in the peaceful settlement of bilateral issues. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. however, the tragic events of december 2011 (repression and detention of opposition members) and the irregularities visible in the course of the 15 january 2012 elections allow us to infer that kazakhstan still has a long way to go. in the framework of the negotiations on a new partnership and cooperation agreement, a constructive dialogue is under way between the eu, representatives of kazakhstan and representatives of civil society on issues of mutual interest. the eu is the largest investor in kazakhstan and relies significantly on imported natural phosphorus for agricultural production, making maintaining good trade relations even more relevant. i therefore support the strengthening of the eu-kazakhstan partnership and welcome the political efforts made by that country and its openness to fruitful negotiations on a future partnership and cooperation agreement.
in writing. - the countries of central asia have long been seen as failed states, remnants of the ussr's disintegration and without particular strategic interest. i think this approach is deeply wrong and i believe that from the point of view of cooperation, security and defence and access to energy sources and raw materials, these states now have a relevant position vis-à-vis the european union. the country in question, kazakhstan, has a long, rich and varied history and has repeatedly demonstrated its desire to move closer to the european union and develop a stable partnership with it. i welcome this wish and hope that kazakhstan can actually converge more and more with the eu, in particular on issues related to democracy and human rights i hope that kazakhstan will take concrete steps to demonstrate this accession and that the negotiations now being held by parliament will be beneficial to both parties and their peoples.
in writing. the report by ms jaakonsaari contains parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations for a partnership and cooperation agreement (acp) between the european union (eu) and kazakhstan. although kazakhstan is the most open economy in central asia and the european union's (eu) most important partner in the region, we cannot dissociate scrupulous respect for human rights from our partnership agreements. if kazakhstan wants to remain an eu trading partner, it must move forward with the ongoing internal reforms in full respect for freedom of association, assembly, expression and religion. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that the eu-kazakhstan negotiations in the framework of a new partnership agreement must include respect for eu values and a set of reforms towards the establishment of a democratic regime. if there is a violation of human rights, the agreement must be suspended. given that kazakhstan has applied for membership of the world trade organisation, which has the support of the eu, i agree that the agreement in preparation will only be concluded after accession.
in writing. the recommendations adopted by the majority of parliament constitute an inadmissible process of interference in kazakhstan's internal affairs and sovereignty by defending the incorporation of clauses in its constitution. it is not a question of incorporating the demands and demands of its people, at the time and under the conditions defined by it, but of forcing this country to face up to internationally established norms. they are taking advantage of a worrying situation with regard to workers' rights and democratic rights to try to justify the eu's pressure and interference in internal processes in the life of this country which, however worrying, are the responsibility of the people of kazakhstan alone to change. the aim is not to help improve the working and living conditions of these people. the real objectives are the liberalization of trade relations, invoking the wto agreements, and access to the energy resources of which this country is fertile. the real concern of the majority in parliament is to force a negotiation in which they will use all the tools and arguments to obtain the advantages that the eu monopolies currently demand.
in writing. − the partnership and cooperation agreements are part of a geostrategic policy of major importance to the eu. it is important that this eu-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement takes the form of a comprehensive framework for the development of relations, addressing all the priority areas that allow for a closer and more cooperative relationship between the two parties, including human rights, the rule of law, good governance, youth and education, economic development, trade and investment, energy and transport, environmental sustainability and water, as well as the fight against common threats and challenges. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union and kazakhstan aim to deepen and broaden their relations and their citizens should mutually benefit from closer cooperation, so the conclusion of the negotiations on the new partnership and cooperation agreement should provide a comprehensive framework for cooperation based on human and democratic rights, as well as opportunities in terms of socioeconomic development and the necessary political and economic reforms. the european parliament therefore welcomes the political will and practical commitment of kazakhstan to strengthen the partnership with the eu and the opening of negotiations for an eu-kazakhstan partnership and cooperation agreement. i have voted in favour of the document, stressing the importance of political dialogue and cooperation, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and economic cooperation.
in writing. - because the crisis in the fishing sector particularly affects small-scale fishing, it is important to remember that it ensures the livelihood of many families and is a factor of fixation of fishing communities along coastal areas. it is therefore important to ensure the economic and social stability of their communities. and this must be done from the outset by promoting fisheries management by marine biogeographical territories, for fair and informed local management of small-scale fisheries with little autonomy and freezing capacity on board and which do not operate outside their exclusive economic zone. the current regime for access to waters should therefore be adjusted, with particular attention to regions with a sea basin with few fisheries resources in the interests of their sustainability.
in writing. - the allocation of a minimum amount of resources from the new emff to small-scale fisheries; - priority should be given to projects with integrated solutions which benefit all coastal communities as widely as possible, rather than those benefiting only a small number of operators. - the creation of mechanisms to ensure that the so-called positive externalities generated by small-scale fishing and not remunerated by the market are recognised, both at the environmental level and at the level of economic and social cohesion of coastal communities; - the creation of specific support mechanisms to be used in emergency situations such as natural disasters, stoppages of activity caused by stock replenishment plans or sudden increases in fuel prices.
in writing. - i agree with the concept of 'small fishing' explained in this report. i believe that it was necessary to go into the details of this explanation for the good and benefit of the cfp, but also for all those who work in the sector. these characteristics are usually associated with small-scale fishing and include: the strong link to the economy, social structure, culture and traditions of coastal towns and communities. i therefore believe that, as stated in the european parliament resolution of 25 february 2010 on the green paper on the reform of the common fisheries policy, small-scale fishing should be treated differently and be subject to management schemes or models adapted to its specific characteristics and problems.
in writing. - mr joão ferreira has presented an excellent paper on coastal fishing, small-scale fishing and the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). we have already discussed here on several occasions the failure of the present cfp. support for the slaughter of many vessels has not contributed to improving fisheries resources and has thrown thousands of fishermen, most of whom come from small communities, into unemployment. it is therefore essential that the new cfp exploits the potential of small fishing communities, not only in tackling the social and financial crisis by fixing families who are in danger of leaving their villages, but also by contributing in a sustainable way to the conservation of resources and the conservation of the marine ecosystem. they must therefore be protected from large-scale fishing. i voted in favour of this report because i support a significant increase in support for small-scale fishing, especially in the outermost regions, decentralised management of this sector and the use of more selective gear. the improvement of infrastructure and safety conditions on board vessels, the encouragement of young workers and the organisation of the sector are other areas which deserve very special attention under the new cfp.
in writing. - we welcome the adoption of this report which proposes a more favourable overall approach to cfp reform for small-scale fisheries (which account for about 90% of the portuguese fleet), with better consideration of their problems but also their potential. with this report, the european parliament takes, in some cases for the first time, important positions in defence of small-scale fisheries and advances with concrete proposals of various scope, such as: a significant decentralisation of fisheries management; transferable fishing concessions; the defence of positive discrimination between segments and operators using more selective fishing gear and equipment; increased community participation in the financing of the acquisition, processing and provision of biological data; the need for a financial instrument for the outermost regions; the financing of actions by the future european fisheries and maritime affairs fund; the creation of support mechanisms for emergency situations; the establishment of financial compensation during periods of biological standstill; the possibility of defining exclusive access areas for small-scale fisheries; the defence of existing public regulatory instruments; and mechanisms that promote fair and fair value added and distribution along the value chain of the sector.
in writing. − this report lists and emphasises numerous specific features of small-scale coastal and artisanal fishing which should be duly taken into account in the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). small-scale fishing includes a wide variety of fisheries, fleet types and fishing gear, which vary widely between member states and depending on the areas of operation. however, regardless of its geographical location, small-scale fishing activity has a certain set of common characteristics, including close links with local communities, the prevalence of family units, micro and small enterprises, fishing relatively close to the coast and with short stay at sea, the use of more selective fishing gear with less impact on marine resources and the marine environment, among others. i voted in favour of this report because of the wide spread and enormous socioeconomic importance of small-scale fishing along large stretches of eu coastline and because i agree that the particular characteristics of small-scale fishing justify a different treatment for this fishing activity.
in writing. − the types of fisheries and fisheries covered by the concept of 'small-scale fishing' are very different from each other, varying according to the member states and fishing zones. the european commission, in conjunction with the member states, should carry out a more rigorous characterization of small-scale fishing. this information supports knowledge-based management, which is essential to increase the community effort in financing the acquisition, processing and provision of this information. the rapporteur is putting forward a set of concrete proposals to support small-scale fishing. given the structural weaknesses of small-scale fishing and its increased vulnerability, this segment is more exposed to certain types of external shocks or sudden changes in the availability of resources than fleet segments considered to be more competitive. the possibility of setting up specific support mechanisms to be used in emergency situations should therefore be considered.
in writing. − small-scale fisheries should be treated differently and be subject to management schemes or models adapted to their specific characteristics and problems. the rapporteur therefore considered that changes were needed in small-scale coastal fishing and artisanal fishing as part of the reform of the common fisheries policy. the definition of 'small fisheries' should take into account a set of criteria in addition to the strict criterion of size. the reform of the cfp should also ensure the conditions for effective local fisheries management, which is the best way of meeting the needs of small-scale fisheries. the reform of the cfp should also encourage improvements in the environmental, economic and social sustainability of the fleet and encourage developments that will bring greater benefits to communities, in particular in terms of job creation. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by stating that the external dimension of the common fisheries policy is, in my view, an essential element of this policy. the european union is one of the main markets for fishery products and the world's largest importer of fishery products, consuming some 11% of the world's fishery products in terms of volume and importing 24% of all fishery products in terms of value, while still accounting for only 8% of the world's catches. in my view, the need for a clear reinforcement of the external dimension of the european union's common fisheries policy is clear. in this connection, i would like to stress that in a context of liberalization which is weighing on fragile regions, it is necessary to ensure that products from international trade meet the same requirements as union products and that the commission should carry out impact studies, particularly where the outermost regions are affected by bilateral agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it essential to strengthen the optimisation of eu policy with regard to the objectives of development, trade and fisheries policies.
in writing. − as a member of this parliament from one of the countries with the largest exclusive fishing economic zone in the world, i believe that the objectives which should guide the external action of the common fisheries policy (cfp) should be to defend the eu's fishing interests, whenever in line with the eu's external policy. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the market in fishery products, which is to be adopted by the council on 1 january 1999, is intended to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not deprived of its fishing opportunities.
in writing. the european market depends on imports for about 60% of its fish consumption needs. most of the rest is provided under the partnership agreements. as the world's largest consumer market for fish, with a share of 11% of the world's fish, the eu has a major responsibility in restoring fish stocks and, at the same time, in the recovery and revitalisation of the eu's fishing industry. it is essential that the eu not only cares about the marine resources in its waters, but also presents a global concern in this area. to achieve improvements in international fisheries, the eu must lead in environmental and management terms through a plan that is consensual for long-distance fishing and for which it must obtain the agreement of third countries. it is therefore imperative to collaborate and work with the fishermen of these countries in order to standardize vessels. in our view, the best management is not that which favours individual agreements but regional ones, with full respect for the conservation of existing resources. because we are faced with a good report which can change the behaviour of this sector at global level and which will ensure sustainability in all international waters, i voted in favour.
in writing. the external dimension of the common fisheries policy needs to be radically changed. the fisheries agreements, hitherto known as 'partnerships', which the commission now wants to designate as 'sustainable fisheries' (sfa), are still in need of major changes. we have made concrete proposals during the debate in plenary, taking up some of the proposals we made in the opinion on policy coherence for development. we generally welcome and support the rapporteur's approach, including proposals to decouple financial compensation from development aid, to involve third countries more closely in agreements and to strengthen scientific and technical cooperation. we appreciate the fact that the unacceptable paragraphs on eu foreign policy and the military operation 'atlanta' in the somali area have been removed to cover the long-running plundering of resources in the region. we regret the paragraphs on the compatibility of the ppas with wto rules.
in writing. − the external dimension of the common fisheries policy (cfp) is complex and covers a variety of parameters, including catching fish by the eu fleet operating outside community waters, importing fish into the eu from other geographical areas, exporting fish caught in community waters, and so on. it is therefore important that these diverse activities are properly regulated so that the eu's fishing interests are pursued in a framework of full legality and sustainability at environmental, economic and social levels. on the other hand, it is also necessary to ensure that the eu fleet maintains its strategic and competitive presence in third country waters, while strictly complying with the requirements of environmental sustainability, social responsibility, respect for fundamental human rights principles and operating in accordance with the standards applied to operators in the eu fishing sector. i voted in favour of this report because i recognise the enormous importance of the external dimension of the common fisheries policy and i agree in general with the proposals presented, albeit with several reservations in certain respects which i considered excessive, notably with regard to the fisheries partnership agreements (fpas).
in writing. − the external dimension of the common fisheries policy contains many areas, such as bilateral fisheries agreements and regional fisheries management organisations. in addition, there are a number of issues which are not regulated by european union law and which are still 'grey areas'. the reform of the common fisheries policy thus aims to contribute to the promotion of the long-term sustainable development of the sector, to obtain high-quality scientific advice and to contribute to better governance and management of financial assistance to the sector. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - i approve this report, starting by emphasising that citizens are directly represented by members of the european parliament and that political parties at european level contribute to the creation of a european political awareness and to the expression of the will of the citizens of the union. given that both the president of the commission and the college of commissioners are voted by the european parliament, european political families should nominate candidates for the presidency of the commission and i hope that these candidates will play a prominent role in the parliamentary election campaign.
in writing. − following the challenge set out here by the president of the commission in his state of the union address, we are today adopting a resolution calling on european political families to present their candidates for president of the commission during the 2014 european parliament election campaign. this seems to me to be an appropriate measure to strengthen the democratic mechanisms of the european union and to enhance the democratic legitimacy of the president of the commission, who is now truly 'elected' by the european citizens. this is essential to bring the eu closer to its citizens, to increase the transparency of procedures and to strengthen the democratic legitimacy of those elected and appointed in the eyes of the electorate.
in writing. − the president of the european commission for the five-year period 2015 to 2019 will be the first to be elected by meps and not a choice of the european council ratified by the ep. this is a way of democratically legitimising the president of the commission. this implies the early elections in may, as the new ep needs sufficient time to organise itself before the election of the president of the commission and the selection of commissioners, who in turn will have to prepare the draft eu budget for the year 2015 so that it is adopted in time to enter into force on 1 january 2015. in order to ensure that the new commission is ready to take up its duties on 1 november 2014, the election of the president of the commission should take place at the constituent session of parliament in july 2014. i voted in favour and i hope that the next elections to the european parliament will be used to talk about the need for a bigger and better europe in the future.
in writing. − a majority in parliament wants european political parties oriented towards defending the eu's course and subordinated to it in financial and organisational terms to nominate their candidates for the presidency of the commission, giving them greater visibility and prominence and seeking to turn the debate and the election of members of each country to the european parliament into a campaign around the presidency of the commission. it also develops unacceptable interference in national electoral systems, proposing 'minimum thresholds' for the election of members of the european parliament, in the name of the supposed 'stability of legislative procedures', 'solid majorities' and 'safeguarding and functioning of parliament'. if confirmed, such a change would mean the end of the genuine proportional system we have in countries like portugal, with possible undemocratic consequences in the distribution of seats. the strengthening of the 'legitimacy' of the european parliament's role which this resolution advocates is inseparable from the attacks on national sovereignty and on the most elementary political and democratic rights and freedoms of workers and peoples which are taking place in the eu. it demonstrates the gravity of the crisis and the need for big capital to face the growing struggle of the peoples, taming and streamlining political power to suit its interests and aspirations for hegemonic domination. obviously, we voted against it.
in writing. − this resolution, adopted by an overwhelming majority, calls on european political families to nominate candidates for the presidency of the commission and expects these candidates to play a prominent role in the parliamentary election campaign. this objective is based on the importance of strengthening the political legitimacy of parliament and the commission by linking their elections more directly to the choice of the electorate. i voted in favour of this resolution, considering that it is useful in launching a debate on the modalities of action to be developed for greater participation of citizens in the european institutions and the strengthening of european democracy. i am not convinced that nominating candidates for the presidency of the european commission will increase citizen participation and, on the other hand, i am afraid that nominating candidates from small countries will completely remove them from high eu posts, widening the gap between large and small countries.
in writing. - i believe that european political parties should nominate their candidates for president of the european commission in the next european elections, thus allowing european citizens to choose their representative more directly. i fully support the idea that as many commissioners as possible should be chosen from among the group of meps elected in 2014. this would balance the power between the european parliament and the council, since it is now the national governments, represented in the council, who appoint all candidates for members of the commission. finally, the early election from june to may will benefit the process of choosing the new college of commissioners, who can start work as of november 2014.
in writing. in my opinion, this is not the best time to have this resolution adopted by the european parliament, since the first libyan government resulting from democratic elections has just been sworn in last week. it obviously needs time to grasp with the many daunting challenges the country faces in a post-war situation. one of the appalling legacies from gaddafi concerns is the mistreatment of migrants and asylum seekers in libya: migrants were and are exploited and discriminated against, many of them detained under inhumane conditions, subjected to torture and barred from access to justice. yet, the 17 of february revolution was made to restore dignity and human rights to all in libya. and libya is, and will continue to be, a magnet for migrants and asylum seekers from all over africa. this requires the new democratic libya to ensure legal protection and respect for the human rights of all foreign workers, asylum seekers and refugees. the eu and the un must support libya in this effort, in the framework of assisting its democratic transition. i hope the new libyan authorities and the libyan people will take this ep stand in this constructive and cooperative spirit.
what we are really talking about here is a free trade agreement. today, of course, it is more euphemistically called that because of the bad reputation of those treaties and the catastrophic history of the inequalities they have created. although they try to sell us these agreements as supposed aims of cooperation, the truth is that free trade agreements are nothing more than mechanisms for the neo-colonization of the peripheries and the procreation of their resources. many of the foreseeable catastrophic social, economic and environmental consequences of these agreements are already known. we know that one of its main objectives is to increase european imports of raw materials for the production of agrofuels, which will put enormous pressure on resources such as land and water, with the establishment of monocultures that will have devastating effects in terms of creating a foreseeable economic, food and energy crisis, in addition to significant environmental impacts. these agreements, which are the bible of liberalisation, will certainly also be harmful to small and medium-sized producers in various countries of the european union who will see markets flooded with low-priced fruit and vegetable products. for those who advocate the european parliament as a counterweight to the proposals of the european commission and the council, the adoption of this agreement is yet another example that the majority in parliament does not represent any kind of alternative, but is rather a faithful sounding board for those institutions. we'll see how the vote goes tomorrow.
rapporteur. − madam president, this trade agreement with our friends from colombia and peru includes a human rights clause stating that the failure to respect human rights and democratic principles would constitute a material breach which, under public international law, could give rise to the adoption of appropriate measures, including the possibility of terminating or partially or totally suspending the agreement. it also enshrines a chapter on sustainable development and labour rights, and the creation of domestic mechanisms and dialogue with civil society which will involve citizens, whether individually or in an organised, collective manner, such as trade unions, employee representatives or other relevant stakeholders such as ngos. regardless of all these clauses and mechanisms, some political groups and members refuse to accept the new reality due to old problems – which are being gradually resolved in both andean countries – relating to longstanding problems of poverty, violence and corruption, internal armed conflict, illegal armed groups, drug trafficking, impunity and land dispossession. this happens due to old stigmas, preconceived ideas and prejudices which no longer correspond to reality and to the new political, social and economic atmosphere in these countries. it is clear that there is a genuine and indisputable commitment by both states and governments to a higher level of human welfare and wellbeing in their countries. here are a few examples: - the dialogue with civil society; the dialogue with the unions; the peace talks with farc; the reduction of poverty; water preservation; indigenous peoples’ rights; strengthening of fundamental labour rights shown, for example, by the ratification of the eight ilo fundamental conventions and three of the four governance conventions;- in colombia: the comprehensive and ambitious action plan on human, environmental and labour rights up to 2014, with clear and verifiable targets; the high-level dialogue on human rights between colombia and the eu; the fight against impunity; the witness protection programme; the creation of the ministry of labour; the regulation of the actions of worker cooperatives; the new restitution and victims’ law. - in peru: the national strategy for the prevention and the eradication of child labour; the national plan on environmental action; the act and regulation on prior consultation; and the new high-level institutions where civil society is now participating. it was an astonishing surprise to realise the level of impressive changes that these two countries have gone through in recent years. it was almost like rediscovering them. actually i think some of us did. others do not want to. last june, in a resolution that we passed in this house, we requested a roadmap for the improvement of human and labour rights, better environmental protection and a more efficient monitoring and scrutiny by civil society of the implementation of the pre-established goals. both governments freely and voluntarily answered us positively, showing us how highly committed they are to these three objectives. i highly value both government plans which, more than answering our requests, are proposing major and binding action plans for a better future for the two nations. that is why i hope to count on your sincere and large support for this consent recommendation so that we will vote positively on it tomorrow, being sure that our principles and our fundamental values are duly respected.
there are two good reasons for supporting this trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru. the first reason is that it is a good agreement from a trade point of view, with great potential for creating growth and jobs. this is important from the point of view of the european union, especially in view of the current crisis in the european economy. we need to take advantage of the opportunities that foreign trade gives us. just last week, eurostat showed that exports are the only sector currently contributing to the growth of the european economy. and colombia and peru are now two vibrant economies with enormous growth potential, and colombia may soon be the second largest economy in south america. secondly, the second big reason to support this agreement is that this agreement is not just a trade agreement: it can be a powerful instrument for improving the situation of human rights in general and workers' rights in particular. first, there is the chapter on sustainable development with an advanced definition of the core label standards, which have to be defended. secondly, for the first time, as has already been pointed out here, the safeguard regulation includes monitoring of social conditions in colombia and peru. and finally, a precedent of enormous scope: this european parliament was able to obtain from colombia and peru the road map with very precise commitments to improve this situation. contrary to what i have heard here from some of the critics of this agreement, ratification of it does not mean an endorsement of the violation of workers' rights in colombia and peru. on the contrary, it means an endorsement of the positive changes that are already taking place, and it means an endorsement of a powerful lever that is to use international trade to improve the rights of workers in colombia and peru. and that is why, as a social democrat, i am very proud to vote in favour of this agreement.
the commission has not yet taken a decision on the matter. i wanted to ask you if you know how many trade unionists have been murdered in colombia in recent years? it is something that even the rapporteur does not hide in his explanatory statement. what if, in your concept of freedom of association, you include the murder of trade unionists who exercise this right to organise and to intervene in trade unions? and also, by the way, does your concept of political freedom include the murder of members of opposition parties? that's the question i wanted to ask you.
this agreement has been met with the strongest rejection on both sides of the atlantic. the reasons for this feeling are just and well founded. it is rejected on both sides of the atlantic by those who understand the true aims and consequences of free trade, one of the pillars of neoliberalism: putting labour from different geographical origins, and at different prices, into direct competition, forcing their general devaluation. the exploitation of labour and of nature must be intensified, and export-oriented production models promoted which exhaust and degrade natural resources. colonizing markets of weaker economies, thus jeopardizing their autonomous and sovereign development. the usual winners of this agreement are the big economic, industrial and financial groups. finally, if the hypocritical human rights clauses were to be taken seriously, as this agreement makes clear ... (the president cut the speaker off)
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all i want to express my gratitude to all the shadow rapporteurs and give a particular mention to all the work done in cooperation with the rapporteur on the safeguard clause, my friend bernd lange, as well as with commissioner karel de gucht and his team. i would also like to give a special word of thanks to the very numerous civil society organisations, from labour unions to ngos, that we heard and discussed with in the course of this long and widely-participated process of ratification. but in democracy the political power lies in the constitutional institutions elected by the people for the people. until now, it has been time to debate, to listen to civil society and to consolidate ideas. now it is time to act, to decide. when it is time to decide, it is up to the democratic parliaments or congresses, both here or in bogotá and lima. i am sorry to be so blunt, but it is us, not ngos or trade unions, that represent all citizens. also, we cannot forget that, according to an independent study, this agreement will boost colombian gdp by 1.3 % and peruvian gdp by 0.7 % in the long term. this deal will result in total tariff savings of more than eur 500 million per year. this is how much we – consumers – may save. in times where economic growth and employment creation should be two of our main objectives as politicians, this trade agreement is a new and important tool for all the 29 nations involved. approving this trade agreement is also a way for the eu to show its support for the ongoing talks for peace and conciliation in colombia. finally, let me emphasise to all colleagues the very good news from last friday when, after 11 years on the blacklist for the violation of human rights, colombia was withdrawn from this blacklist by the inter-american commission on human rights.
the rapporteur. − this is one of the most important regulations we have voted on so far in the area of international trade, as it implements and gives effect to one of the most important innovations in the lisbon treaty. the commission has already taken steps to ensure that the community's trade policy is not distorted by the introduction of the euro. and since the union has exclusive competence in matters of common commercial policy, this means that from now on only the union can legislate and adopt legally binding acts in this area, including the negotiation of treaties to protect the union's external investment. the member states can now do this themselves only if and when they are authorized by the union to do so. however, when the treaty of lisbon entered into force three years ago, the member states had concluded numerous bilateral investment agreements with third countries: more than 1 200. the main purpose of these agreements is, as you know, to provide protection for investments made abroad against arbitrary actions, expropriation, for example, by the governments of the countries receiving the investment. the lisbon treaty did not lay down any explicit transitional provisions for existing agreements, which henceforth fall within the exclusive competence of the union. this regulation was therefore necessary to ensure a transition as smooth as possible, in order to reduce the legal uncertainty which results from this transitional period as regards the status of the existing treaties. according to this regulation, which was negotiated at length with the council, bilateral agreements negotiated between member states and third countries before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon remain in force until they are replaced by an investment agreement of the union or otherwise expire, unless they are contrary to union law, in which case they must be reviewed or cancelled by the member states concerned on the initiative of the european commission. secondly, the regulation also legalises bilateral investment treaties negotiated by member states illegally after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, provided that they comply with the strict conditionality laid down in the regulation. that was the price parliament demanded for legalizing these agreements. thirdly, this regulation also sets out the conditions, strictly random, under which member states may henceforth be authorised to amend or conclude new international investment agreements in cases where the union obviously has no interest in negotiating them itself. the commission will present a report to the european parliament and the council on its implementation no later than 10 years from now, and then the situation can be assessed and any necessary amendments proposed. it's been a long road to get here. as rapporteur for this dossier, i have to say that i consider the agreement to be fully satisfactory and that the fundamental objectives of the european parliament have been achieved for the good of the union and for the good of our businesses and our investments.
the rapporteur. - mr president, allow me to join in praising the seriousness and responsibility of commissioner de gucht. that is probably why he has so far rarely lost an initiative in the european parliament, with the exception of the failed acta agreement. mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a happy ending to a negotiation that was anything but easy. member states were slow to become convinced, first, that foreign direct investment had become an exclusive competence of the union, second, that existing bilateral treaties could only remain in force if they were not an obstacle to the development of the union's investment policy and, third, that there was an invaluable added value in a common external trade policy rather than a policy fragmented among the 27 member states of the union. as we come to the end of these difficult negotiations, it is important to stress the commitment, the seriousness and the responsibility of the three institutions. it would not have been possible without the contribution of the polish presidency of the council, which opened the negotiations, and the danish presidency, which concluded them, and without the mediation of the commission, without whose contribution we could hardly have reached an agreement. let me remind you of the leading role played by the deputy director-general, mr joão aguiar machado, who was unrivaled in his attempt to find satisfactory solutions between the council and the european parliament, and finally by my fellow shadow rapporteurs, in particular pavel zalewski, who did not compromise on their commitment to reaching an agreement, however difficult it might have seemed at first. i therefore ask this house to adopt this regulation with broad support. it is a huge step towards greater integration of the union's external trade policy and external investment policy. from now on, the union will be closer, an ever closer union, also here in the field of external trade and foreign investment.
the rapporteur. - i guess today's my day. i have no good news to give parliament this time, but i ask again that you support my position and the position of inta, the parliament's committee on international trade, in our position to fight the council on this matter. the committee on international trade, of which i am the chairman, proposes that this house approve the commission's proposal, submitted in december 2011, to make available macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic up to a maximum amount of eur 30 million. the report adopted at inta, for which i am rapporteur, only approved a minor amendment to remove from the recitals the justification for adopting the advisory procedure on comitology as regards the control of the commission's implementing powers by the member states. unfortunately, it was not possible to reach an agreement with the council on this matter. the view of the committee on international trade in this house, supported by a large majority, is that if there is a need for comitology, which can be and has been disputed, then the consultative procedure should be used in the case of the memoranda of understanding on macrofinancial assistance, as happened in previous cases with ukraine and moldova, and not the examination procedure, as proposed by the council, which gives the member states, as we know, that is to say the council, through the member states, a veto power over the commission's implementing powers. the council considers that the examination procedure should be used as a general rule and that the advisory procedure should be exceptional and should be adopted only on the basis of special case-by-case justification. once again, the council has clearly changed its position on this matter, as it had previously accepted the consultative procedure in the agreements on macrofinancial assistance to moldova and ukraine. it should be clear that the point of contention between parliament and the council on macrofinancial assistance to kyrgyzstan, as well as to georgia, is not a matter of substance and whether or not this country fulfils the conditions to deserve such assistance. we certainly support the granting of financial support to kyrgyzstan. there are two interlinked political issues at stake: an institutional question, which is what degree of control member states should have over the commission's implementing acts in this area, and a related political question, which is whether the european parliament can accept increased control by the council via the member states over the commission when the parliament does not have, or would not have, the same power of control over the commission. this is an issue on which parliament must remain firm in defending the balance of powers established in the lisbon treaty and make it clear that we do not accept the council's instrumentalisation of comitology to enable it to recover the powers which the lisbon treaty requires to be conferred on the commission and shared equally with the european parliament. it is important to make it clear to the council that this strategy cannot be vindicated and that it is also unacceptable for the council to sacrifice the interests of kyrgyzstan and georgia for a sectarian position on institutional matters.
the rapporteur. - mr president, there are two good reasons for supporting this commission proposal. firstly, macrofinancial assistance is not a gift, it is on the one hand a loan and on the other hand an investment which the union is making in economic stabilisation and democratic transition in kyrgyzstan. macro-financial assistance can and should also be subject to relevant conditions, in particular the rule of law. this is the case here, because article 5 of this regulation specifically states that there must be conditions in the fight against fraud and corruption. so the question is whether the union should reject this financial assistance on the basis of the situation in kyrgyzstan or whether it should give it just to leverage its capacity to press for and demand progress in the rule of law and democratic transition in kyrgyzstan. i have no doubt, once again, that the correct choice on our part is the second. i therefore call for our support for this commission proposal and for macrofinancial assistance to kyrgyzstan.
mr president, we know how unemployment throws millions of portuguese into miserable distress every day, we know how many thousands of portuguese are now forced to emigrate in search of a future they cannot find in their own country, we know that hunger is affecting thousands of portuguese schoolchildren and that more and more mothers are not able to afford milk for their newborn children. this week's news. almost 39 years after the overthrow of fascism in portugal, this is what the european union, the troika and their henchmen are bringing back to portugal. the peace that the discredited nobel decided to establish today in oslo is based on this dark reality, but it is not hidden, because it is in plain sight. it is the peace of the rulers, based on the oppression of the ruled, a peace that is therefore ephemeral and doomed. there is no peace in an evil and unjust social order. it is the struggle of the workers and peoples, which grows stronger every day against this social order, that will open the way to true peace, progress and social justice in europe.
mr president, the last ecofin meeting confirmed once again that all debts are restructurable, that interest rates can be reduced, that deadlines can be extended. unfortunately, we are not talking about the case of greece, because this restructuring does not serve the interests of the greek people, because it imposes draconian countermeasures, keeps the debt burden on and continues to sink the economy. but let us not be told, once again, that the dogma of the conditions of the debt is non-negotiable. we already know that's a lie. for the umpteenth time since the crisis began, we had an ecofin meeting that was very fin and not eco, that is, with a lot of concern for financial markets and zero concern for the economy. any first-year student at any university knows that without a sound economy there are no balanced finances. everyone knows, but apparently you don't know who attends ecofin meetings. in fact, i doubt they even know, but for them there are higher values that rise and those values are markets, markets and more markets. to make matters worse, mr president, and i will finish with that, the ministers of the intervening countries who took part in the meeting continue to work more in defence of and representation of the troika in their countries than in defence of and representation of their countries against the troika.
mr president, in portugal there has been a succession of struggles by workers in the maritime port sector against the change in the employment regime in this sector initiated by the portuguese government. ports across the country have been paralyzed by the strikes. it should be noted that there were strikes only during overtime, strikes by pilots and staff of the maritime control, dockers and workers of the port administrations. the aim of the labour reform is, among other things, to eliminate the professional portfolio of port workers and to establish work contracts that can last 6 hours, i.e. it is a matter of total precariousness in this professional sector. on november 25th, dockworkers from several european countries, spain, italy, france, denmark, greece, cyprus, sweden and malta, held a symbolic one-hour strike in solidarity with the struggle in our country. the workers will fight against the attempt to impose, by practice and with our country serving as a guinea pig, the directive on ports, which has already been rejected twice, and the portuguese and european workers will win their fight.
the need for a transparent, functioning and regulated digital single market to enable smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and to boost economic development and job creation in the eu was highlighted in this report. the creation of an e-commerce test in all legislative production affecting the digital internal market is essential in order to avoid legislative fragmentation and additional efforts should be made by member states towards the timely transposition of directives. the commission's green paper proposal of 29 november on 'an integrated parcel delivery market for the growth of e-commerce in the eu' addresses one of the major concerns in digital commerce, also reflected in this report by mr arias echeverría. an inventive approach to the postal services issue ensuring innovative, affordable and universally accessible delivery modes is essential, because the digital single market should make the eu a hub of rights and opportunities for consumers and sellers and not accentuate the difficulties inherent in the outermost or isolated areas of the european union.
madam president, commissioner, microbial resistance to antibiotics is a pressing problem. in europe alone, this report says, there are more than 25,000 deaths a year caused by resistance to existing antibiotics. the increase in resistance on the one hand and the shortage of new medicines on the other call for urgent action. the causes of the problems are diverse and so must be the measures to be implemented. a comprehensive response from health systems is required, including a range of preventive practices and procedures, both at the primary healthcare and hospital levels. this will only be possible if public health services are managed in such a way as to ensure that they are universal, of high quality and free of charge. there is a need to strengthen investment and activities in research and development, in particular in the public sector. the study of the consequences of the indiscriminate use of antibiotics in livestock should be further developed by investigating their relationship with the emergence of resistance in humans. the underlying patterns of intensive export-oriented production must be challenged, which implies a fundamental change in the existing trade and agricultural policies.
madam president, we recognize the need for the procedural requirements for registering a patent to be within the reach of a small company, a small university or even the individual inventor. but we cannot agree to this proposal and we have a number of concerns. firstly, a wider and necessarily longer public debate was required, which did not take place. there is an inevitable feeling that the whole process is being driven by the big industrial interests of a few of the more industrialized countries, leaving the public interest behind once again. the proposal to create a unified patent court and the consequent loss of sovereignty and national capacity to intervene in this area are fraught with obvious dangers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the patent system is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies. there is also the question of language and the need to safeguard equal treatment without discrimination or privileged status. all in all, this is surely not the best solution.
mr president, i would like to comment on the news that hsbc bank will have to pay €1.2 billion in fines for money laundering, in connection with this extension of the work of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering, of which i am vice-president and which is chaired by our colleague, sonia alfano. in our committee we have been working on the idea of setting up a fund for the social use of money confiscated in money laundering, which is a secondary crime often supported by other primary crimes, which are the most serious human rights violations. i hope that the extension of the special committee's work will serve precisely to deal with these cases.
rapporteur. − mr president, we reject the referral back to committee for three reasons: the arguments just used were the same ones that we have been listening to since we started this procedure over one year ago. we are ready to vote, now that the committee on international trade (inta) has voted with 20 votes in favour, 4 against and 1 abstention. we have listened time and time again to unions and ngos but, i am sorry to remind you of this, the representatives of the citizens as a whole are the elected parliamentarians in this house, in bogotá and in lima. finally, last friday the inter-american commission on human rights removed colombia from the black list of countries violating human rights, which it has been on for eleven years, so we can vote now with the knowledge that our principles and fundamental rights are respected.
in writing. - i approve this report which aims to provide financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic under the imf programme in the country, thus contributing to the financial stabilisation of the kyrgyz republic. however, in my opinion, given the current situation of human rights violations in this country, i consider it extremely necessary to have a human rights situation report and a resolution with the main and fundamental objectives to be improved by the national authorities of kyrgyzstan. i regret the lack of importance given to this issue in the european parliament, which was blocked by the majority of the political groups.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the commission proposal including the amendment tabled by the european parliament.
in writing. − the eu's macro-financial assistance is a key instrument in our relations with neighbouring and candidate countries. given the negative impact of the euro debt crisis on neighbouring countries, the union should take on a complementary role to the imf in stabilising these countries close to its borders, as this is in its own interest, politically and economically. in the case of the kyrgyz republic and georgia, the long delays in the decision-making process put the eu in a delicate position. we are not only losing our credibility vis-à-vis our external strategic partners, we are also running the risk of blocking any future proposals for macrofinancial assistance, which may have political consequences for the union in its relations with other countries that have already submitted requests for assistance such as egypt or armenia. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that it is not reasonable to sacrifice the interests of the eu in its relations with the kyrgyz republic (and georgia) in favour of political and institutional issues. it is time to apply in a real and effective way the balance of power established in the lisbon treaty!
in writing. - the times of crisis we are living in cannot mean abandoning aid to our neighbours. in this case, the kyrgyz republic, a former soviet republic that became independent after the breakup of the soviet union. the european union cannot avoid playing an interventionist role in central asia and seeking to help the states of the region which are seeking to undertake reforms and adopt western values. i hope that the aid provided will promote these same values in kyrgyzstan and contribute to closer relations between kyrgyzstan and the european union.
in writing. - kyrgyzstan, one of the countries of the former soviet union in central asia, is the poorest country in the region. about a third of kyrgyzstan's population lives below the poverty line. following independence and with international assistance, kyrgyzstan embarked on an economic recovery process thanks to a successful stabilisation programme that included a significant set of reforms. in the spring of 2010, kyrgyzstan was embroiled in a civil war that shook its economy and jeopardized its path to full democracy. the imprisonment of human rights defenders without access to justice is clouding its relations with the european union (eu). this macrofinancial assistance, which is part of the support for the emerging democracies, should not only strengthen the eu's credibility but also help the country to return to the path of democracy.
in writing. the report aims to give the go-ahead for the granting of macrofinancial assistance (mfa) to the kyrgyz republic. the rhetoric in the report is the usual one. due to the "efforts of the pro-democratic authorities" the international community has promised to support kyrgyzstan. in 2011, 'the imf entered into an escrow arrangement (extended credit facility) with the authorities of the kyrgyz republic for usd 106 million to support a broad economic adjustment and reform program for the period from mid-2011 to 2014'. in 2010, the national authorities of kyrgyzstan officially requested the granting of mfa to the eu. the commission proposes to make available a maximum of eur 30 million, half in the form of loans and the other half in the form of grants. this mfa grant is directly linked to the eu's strong 'political and economic support' to the 'fledgling parliamentary democracy of the kyrgyz republic'. 'it will constitute a strong political signal of eu support for democratic reforms in central asia, in line with eu policy for the region.' in addition to supporting the current democratic government, the eu also demands structural and macroeconomic reforms in the areas of social security, education and public financial management. this is unacceptable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to the kyrgyz republic, as i consider it appropriate, within the framework of the neighbourhood policy, to grant financial assistance, under strict conditions, to enable the development of this country.
in writing. − in 2009, the kyrgyz republic was affected by the global crisis. shortly afterwards, its economic problems were compounded by a popular uprising that in april 2010 deposed the regime of president bakiyev, accused of corruption and lack of democracy. after a war broke out in the country, the new provisional government succeeded in passing democratic reforms. a process of democratization and reform is under way which contrasts with the political situation in the neighbouring countries of central asia. i am voting in favour of this report which allows the european union to continue to support the kyrgyz republic as agreed by the international community. i believe that we must support the nascent parliamentary democracy in kyrgyzstan by providing all the conditions for financial assistance to help the country progress along the path of development and prosperity.
in writing. the report aims to give the go-ahead for the granting of macrofinancial assistance (mfa) to the kyrgyz republic. in 2010, the national authorities of kyrgyzstan officially requested mfa from the eu. the commission proposes to make available a maximum of eur 30 million, half in the form of loans and the other half in the form of grants. this mfa grant is directly linked to the eu's strong 'political and economic support' to the 'fledgling parliamentary democracy of the kyrgyz republic'. 'it will constitute a strong political signal of eu support for democratic reforms in central asia, in line with eu policy for the region.' in addition to supporting the current democratic government, the eu also demands structural and macroeconomic reforms in the areas of social security, education and public financial management. once again, blackmail and meddling are unacceptable.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of energy from renewable sources. this report aims to improve the energy environmental quality of most businesses and public and regional administrations, so as to reduce energy expenditure in offices, which i welcome. i should stress that the importance of this report will only become a reality with the application of the regulation in a bottom-up process, where the regional authorities must and can play a key role in its application.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the commission's proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report on the community energy efficiency labelling programme for office equipment. this report extends an existing agreement between the european union and the united states which will enable both parties to continue their efforts to save energy in the tertiary sector, particularly in offices, by providing information and raising awareness among end users of office equipment and supplies. office equipment accounts for a considerable part of the electricity consumption in the tertiary sector, and therefore it is of no small importance to introduce energy efficiency mechanisms which allow cost savings but above all savings in environmental resources. i would also stress that the only substantial change in this agreement compared with the previous one relates to the product and equipment approval system which is different in the eu and the united states: the eu maintains its system of self-certification by manufacturers, while the united states switches to a system of energy efficiency certification awarded by independent bodies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'energy efficiency labelling programme for office equipment', as it will allow the application of the rules resulting from the agreement with the united states of america on the coordination of programmes in this field and thus contribute to the achievement of the energy efficiency targets in the european union. i believe that member states should encourage authorities at regional and local level to use energy efficiency requirements in public procurement for the supply of such equipment.
in writing. − the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european community on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment expired on 28 december 2011. a new five-year agreement with the united states is therefore necessary. it is also necessary to update the references to the union quality labelling or certification schemes concerning the establishment of a framework to define ecodesign requirements for energy-related products. the european commission has preliminarily cleared up all doubts during the negotiation process, allowing the agreement voted today to be the one the eu needs.
in writing. - the report by mr kovács on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european union (eu) programme for energy-efficiency labelling of office equipment and amending regulation (ec) no 106/2008 on this subject. the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european community on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment expired on 28 december 2011. the council has, however, adopted a decision authorising the commission to negotiate a new agreement for a period of five years. between 2009 and 2010, the ep and the council adopted several legal instruments (directives 2009/125/ec and 2010/30/eu and regulation (ec) no 66/2010) on the ecodesign of energy-related products and the adoption of an eu eco-label scheme. in times of crisis and in the fight against climate change, improving the energy efficiency of equipment should be a concern for all citizens.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east and the situation in the middle east. at that time, the principle of mutual recognition ceased to apply due to the introduction of third party certification in the usa. this report now legislates on the regulation on the eu programme for energy-efficiency labelling of office equipment, based on the same energy star programme created by the us epa. in general, technical adaptations are introduced with regard to the certification scheme, while maintaining eu self-certification by manufacturers and references to existing legislation on the subject. as with the abovementioned agreement, we voted in favour.
in writing. − the present draft legislative resolution of the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on a european union programme for energy-efficiency labelling of office equipment amends the previous regulation to define that energy efficiency improvement objectives take into account the need to ensure a high level of environmental and consumer protection. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − this report aims to continue the energy star programme, as defined in the agreement between the united states and the european union. the amendments to the agreement are purely technical: updates, clarifications and merging of articles. the only substantial change was the incorporation into this new agreement of two product registration systems in the union of self-certification. finally, it is also recommended that member states encourage local and regional authorities to use the same requirements.
in writing. the agreement to extend the energy star programme, set up by the us environmental protection agency, aimed at improving the energy efficiency of office equipment, was approved in parliament's plenary session about a month ago. now, the principle of mutual recognition no longer applies due to the introduction of third party certification in the us. this report now legislates on the regulation on the eu programme for energy-efficiency labelling of office equipment, based on the same energy star programme brought in by the us epa. in general, technical adaptations are introduced with regard to the certification scheme, while maintaining eu self-certification by manufacturers and references to existing legislation on the subject. we voted in favour.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that the digital single market has not yet evolved as much as it should, and moreover, it must be done in such a way as to make the most of it. i think that an effort to harmonize this is very necessary, because the existence of 27 different types of rules for cross-border business is a huge barrier to the existence of a true single market as such, since a large and increasing proportion of business is done digitally. the introduction of areas of action to overcome these barriers, presented in this report, are key to facilitating trade and the competitiveness of smes in the european single market, not to mention the very individual digital consumption in the european market, which since 2000 has been claimed as a deficit, when compared for example with digital trade in the united states of america, which becomes a huge barrier to the competitiveness of european companies.
in writing. − the digital revolution we are living through has changed our lives, and it has also transformed the way businesses operate, creating new forms of commerce, new forms of interaction, new forms of learning and new ways of finding information. the internet has had a huge impact on people's lives and the economy. e-commerce is thus an important tool for reshaping and improving the competitiveness of the european economy and the european single market, contributing to economic growth, job creation, product variety and affordability. however, the european digital single market has not evolved as much as would be expected and the potential of the digital economy has not been fully exploited. this report, which i supported, advocates: the need for greater use of technologies in all businesses, especially smes; the creation of reliable, safe and efficient online payment systems; the streamlining and simplification of vat systems; the reduction of cross-border shipping costs and the strengthening of confidence in the digital single market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the recommendations on smes, breaking down the barriers to the digital single market and building trust in the digital single market to lay the foundations for a more competitive and inclusive europe.
in writing. − the full functioning of the digital economy is linked to the smooth functioning of the eu economy. the internet has been responsible for 20% of economic growth and 25% of job creation over the last five years in some g-8 countries. it has enabled new enterprises (smes) to be set up and existing enterprises to be developed. companies that have developed their economies through the internet have made much more progress than others, and given that in the current crisis job creation is heavily dependent on smes, it is essential to remove barriers to online trade so that they can benefit from all its advantages. electronic commerce has become a key part of commerce and an important tool for consumer choice. a digital single market, where services can circulate freely in a market of 500 million consumers, is a key stimulus for competitiveness and economic growth by creating skilled jobs and moving the eu towards a knowledge-driven economy. i believe it is vital to end the legal fragmentation in some areas in order to achieve a fully functioning digital single market. this will be a measure which can do much to stimulate employment and the economy.
in writing. - in the year of the 20th anniversary of the european single market, which has positively transformed the lives of 500 million european citizens, and recognising the need to embrace the natural evolution of the single market towards a digital single market creating more possibilities and opportunities for growth and jobs for our economies, our businesses and our citizens, i am voting in favour of this report. the fragmentation of the european digital market (we currently have 27 digital markets in the eu!) distances many smes from the potential benefits of using the internet and new technologies. when 99% of eu enterprises are smes and together account for 85% of job creation, it is important to create the conditions for these enterprises to be able to face the new challenges of the digital economy, particularly in times of crisis such as the current one. i am, however, aware of the many obstacles we still have to overcome, starting with the trust and credibility of businesses and consumers in the digital single market. today, 35% of internet users avoid online shopping due to concerns about payment security or lack of legal certainty, demonstrating the need to strengthen the trust and credibility of the digital single market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the implementation of a genuine digital single market which can make an important contribution to stimulating growth and creating jobs. in this area, i would stress the decisive role played by smes in the european economy, which makes it necessary to develop a specific action plan for their integration into this market.
in writing. − the existence of a competitive digital single market is becoming more important and more inescapable in our society. technological developments, especially in terms of the availability of information, content and knowledge on the net, have been extremely rapid and in just over a decade have dramatically changed the digital landscape with the massification of the internet and mobile communications. it is therefore important to look to the future and to think about how these new facilities of the digital age can be put at the service of citizens and businesses for europe's growth and competitiveness. finally, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, pablo echeverría, on his excellent work in concluding this dossier.
in writing. - we all know that technological development reduces distances and helps to overcome many obstacles. the internet has invaded our homes and everything is just a click away. online shopping, tax payments, consultations, information, complaints, etc. can all be done without leaving home, improving the efficiency of services and the quality of life of citizens. the report by pablo arias echeverría focuses on the need for the european union (eu) to strengthen trust in the digital single market (dsm). this is a proposal that has the merit of helping businesses in the member states (ms) more directly to achieve more sustainable growth towards a more inclusive europe. this is a major challenge for the eu as the mud has not evolved as much as would be desirable and many of its potential is still to be exploited. it is therefore necessary to make broadband access more widely available and to remove all obstacles to maximising this resource.
in writing. − we welcome some of the proposals in this report, such as improving data protection measures, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, consumer protection (especially in online payments), increasing trust in the digital cross-border market, developing broadband and improving access to ict for the disabled, the elderly and people in more isolated rural areas. however, we are moving away from the mainstream approach in the report that of the liberalisation of the digital market. we also oppose the rapporteur's proposals to use the digital single market as a springboard for the implementation of a common eu vat system, the completion of the single transport market and the implementation of the services directive. these are concepts which are far removed from the necessary defence of the more general public interest and the principle of open access.
in writing. − trust is one of the key success factors for the growth of e-commerce and online services. i believe that more measures are needed to stimulate the growth of e-commerce by building trust, creating an online marketplace that consumers can trust; a marketplace that ensures transparency, security and protection of users' rights. i voted in favour of this report, which provides for a policy in this respect.
in writing. − the digital single market is an essential factor in establishing the european union as a knowledge-based economy. e-commerce and online services are a vital force of the internet and are crucial to achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy for the internal market. i support this report because i believe that the deepening of the digital single market will benefit both individual citizens and businesses through smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. this support is essential for 99% of all european smes, as they provide 85% of employment. it is essential to continue to support smes, which are the driving force of the european economy, with primary responsibility for wealth creation, jobs and growth, as well as for r&d and innovation.
in writing. - we cannot but welcome some of the proposals introduced in this report, such as improving data protection measures, supporting smes, introducing improvements in consumer protection (especially in online payments), developing broadband, increasing access to ict for the disabled, the elderly and people in more isolated rural areas. however, we cannot critically distance ourselves from the main and cross-cutting approach of this report promoting the liberalisation of the digital market , placing the issue of internet access in the interests of companies, rather than being oriented towards the defence of the general interest, the public domain and free access to the public. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport sector, which is a key area for the future of the eu.
in writing. - i approve this report, and i would like to start by saying that i consider this initiative by the european union to be essential. this report, which is intended to follow up the commission's communication 'small business, big world', which launches the european union's partnership with smes to take greater advantage of global opportunities, is, in my view, strategic and crucial in enhancing the overall competitiveness of the european economy. we must not forget that smes are the backbone of the european economy, accounting for 75% of private sector employment and contributing to the creation of around 80% of new jobs in the european union over the last five years. by exploiting the potential of smes in the european union in terms of trade relations, we are giving the necessary impetus to many of these smes to go international and increase their operational capacity and thus contribute to more economy and employment in the european union. however, i should point out that in my view due consideration should be given to smes located in peripheral, isolated, island, mountainous and ultra-peripheral locations, so that in achieving this objective the objectives of cohesion policy are complemented.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the european union (eu) account for 75% of private sector jobs and have contributed to around 80% of new job creation over the last five years. however, only 25% of smes operate outside the national borders of the member state in which they are established and only 13% are active in markets outside the eu. the lack of internationalisation of smes stems from the difficulties in accessing information on foreign markets and the lack of capital to become 'global', which includes financing cross-border business activities. to overcome these two constraints, there is a need to improve the collection of information and statistical data on the challenges of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). to this end, the european commission should consider the creation of an eu-wide export and import function (eu exim) which should build on existing trade finance support in some member states, sharing national best practices and government policy responses to improve access to finance for smes and msmes. i therefore support this report.
in writing. - the european commission estimates that there are some 23 million smes operating in the eu's single market. its role in the european market is very important. smes make up 99% of the business fabric and create 85% of employment in the european union. interestingly, only 25% of smes operate outside the national borders of the member state in which they are established and only 13% are active in markets outside the eu, namely in exports. the number of smes involved in foreign direct investment is also limited. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it crucial to improve the quality of information available to smes on the financing opportunities and financial instruments available at national and eu level in order to enable them to overcome, through such assistance, the trade barriers which prevent their access to third country markets and to enable them to exploit to the full the growth and job creation potential resulting from their internationalisation.
in writing. − lack of finance and weak entrepreneurship remain a major problem for the competitiveness of eu businesses. bureaucracy, lack of credit and lack of information also pose serious obstacles to the internationalisation of smes, which is seen as an extremely important measure to combat the crisis. a more effective policy, subsidiary and complementary to the existing one, should be adopted in order to provide greater support at national, regional and local level to micro, small and medium-sized enterprises. the eu should promote initiatives that support the development of smes in specific sectors in a more efficient way. technical and financial assistance should be provided on the basis of market research and companies should be encouraged to export, import and invest beyond the eu single market. only 25% of smes operate outside their national borders and only 13% export to markets outside the union. i recommend improving the quality of information to enterprises on funding opportunities at national and eu level, and maximising the potential for growth and job creation resulting from the internationalisation of smes.
in writing. - as in portugal, the largest share of the eu's business fabric is made up of micro, small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). in some very revealing figures, smes in the union account for 75% of jobs in the private sector and have created about 80% of new jobs in the last five years. but equally revealing are the figures on their degree of internationalisation - only 25% of european smes operate in other markets in the union and only 13% operate outside the common market - which is why i voted in favour of this report on eu financing of trade and investment for smes, which advocates greater ease of access to credit in support of internationalisation. i highlight in this report what i believe could be good news for our portuguese msmes: the reinforced support to micro and smes in the union for improving access to intra-community and non-eu markets through the creation by the commission of the programme for the competitiveness of enterprises and smes (cosme) 2014-2020, successor to the current framework programme for competitiveness and innovation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates a set of measures to promote the participation of smes in global markets. to achieve this, measures to promote internationalisation, including easier access to capital and regularly updated information on business opportunities abroad, are needed.
in writing. − smes account for 75% of private sector jobs in the eu and, since the start of the crisis, have been responsible for around 80% of job creation, reinforcing their relevance in the european economy. however, interestingly, only 25% of smes operate outside the borders of the member states. the financial crisis has highlighted the loss of competitiveness in europe over the past decade compared with other global players such as the brics, japan and the united states, which continue to dominate world markets as the exporting countries par excellence. it is urgent to reverse this trend and create the conditions for our smes to be able to move away from being essentially dependent on the european market and to enter new markets. it should be noted that many of these markets, due to a growing increase in domestic demand, can represent a growth prospect for our smes of more than double their turnover in a short period of time. i agree with the rapporteur's conclusions and reiterate the importance that access to information on these new markets can have for smes, as well as access to existing financing opportunities and financial instruments for trade at national and eu level.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis we are experiencing forces us to 'sharpen our ingenuity' in seeking new solutions to the problem of economic growth and job creation. this report focuses on the difficulties faced by small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), particularly in the financing of trade and investment by the european union (eu), taking into account the need for easier access to credit in support of internationalisation. smes in the eu account for 75% of private sector jobs and have created 80% of new jobs in the last five years. however, only 25% of smes have established business relations beyond the borders of the member state in which they are based. it is therefore imperative to help the eu's 23 million or so smes in their internationalisation process, as they are the backbone of the european economy.
in writing. - this report recognises the major difficulties faced by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises today. the difficulties are evident in the growing number of bankruptcies, closures and rampant unemployment. the problem of financing smes is real. restrictions on access to credit persist, despite billions of euros of public funds being injected into private banking. the report recognises these and other financing difficulties faced by smes. but in doing so, he then points to "internationalization" as the general panacea for all these problems. the report also calls for the creation of a european market in the textile sector. it is a view which we do not share and which ignores the reality of smes. the report also ignores the consequences of the so-called austerity policies, the eu-imf programmes (such as the aggression pact in progress in portugal), the recession, the sharp fall in demand, the crushing of the purchasing power of the population. the report calls on 'national governments to support smes through export credits that are officially supported' - a proposal which is in stark contrast to the reality of the ongoing eu-imf programmes, supported by this parliament, in countries such as portugal.
in writing. − this report aims to improve the quality of information available to smes and micro-enterprises (mses) on funding opportunities and financial and legal instruments at national and eu level. it is important that smes have access to all the mechanisms (credit, legal) necessary to foster greater internationalisation, possibly leading to greater growth and job creation. i voted yes.
in writing. − the recommendations in this report aim to improve the quality of information available to smes and microenterprises on existing financing opportunities and financial instruments for trade at national and eu level. i voted in favour of this report, considering that these are important objectives which must be implemented urgently.
in writing. − this report aims to improve the quality of information available to smes and micro-enterprises (mses) on funding opportunities and financial and legal instruments at national and eu level. it is important that smes have access to all the mechanisms (credit, legal) necessary to foster greater internationalisation, possibly leading to greater growth and job creation. i voted yes.
in writing. − in the european union, it is estimated that 99% of all enterprises are small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) and 92% of these are micro enterprises employing between one and nine workers. the 23 million or so smes that form the backbone of the union's economy and provide two thirds of private sector employment are facing serious difficulties, mainly as a result of the decline in domestic demand due to the economic crisis. i support this report because i believe it is essential that smes have easy access to credit, not only when they are in the early stages and need start-up capital, but also when they are reaching cruise speed and are developing new products and services with high added value. it is also important to emphasise that it is essential for smes to cooperate with each other and to establish commercial relations which can benefit their internationalisation strategies. member states should be more committed than ever to supporting smes as a way to leverage sustainable growth, create jobs and generate wealth.
in writing. - this report recognises the major difficulties faced by micro, small and medium-sized enterprises today. the problem of financing smes is real. restrictions on access to credit persist, despite billions of euros of public funds being injected into private banking. the report recognises these and other financing difficulties faced by smes. but in doing so, he then points to "internationalization" as the general panacea for all these problems. the report also calls for the creation of a european market in the textile sector. the report ignores the consequences of so-called austerity policies, eu-imf programmes (such as the aggression pact under way in portugal), recession, the sharp fall in demand and the crushing of the purchasing power of the populations. the report calls on 'national governments to support smes through export credits that are officially supported': a proposal which is in stark contrast to the reality of the eu-imf programmes currently being supported by this parliament in countries such as portugal, which are causing the daily destruction of dozens of smes.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering first of all that the internet and new technologies play an increasingly important role in the lives of europeans and citizens all over the world. globally, technologies are changing societies, the functioning of our democracies, economies, business, media, development strategies, security and defence concerns and human rights issues. since internet access is identified by several eu member states as a fundamental right and we are in a globally connected world, the eu should have a strategy to deal with new technologies in its external actions. in my view, there are several areas in this digital world where it is essential for the eu to act as a global player and to leverage its economic and political importance. while over-regulation has more harm than good in terms of the potential of the open internet, rules need to be updated in some areas to match the revolutionary impact of technological developments with adequate democratic control.
in writing. − digital freedoms are essential rights and are indispensable to ensure transparency and accountability in public life. the eu should take the lead in promoting and protecting digital freedoms globally. as well as being the world's largest trading bloc, the eu is also a community of values. these values should also be at the heart of all our external actions. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the idea that the european union should take the lead in promoting and protecting digital freedoms globally, ensuring the synergy of its trade, external and security policies and in full respect for the coherence between the values it sets out and the interests it defends.
in writing. − the internet is an indispensable vehicle for access to information, freedom of expression, freedom of the press and for social, economic, political and cultural development. the use of the internet and new information and communication technologies (ict) is enabling substantial changes in societies with an impact on democracy, governance, economics, trade and the media. the promotion of e-skills and closing the digital divide are important measures to exploit the potential of the internet and ict. net neutrality is central to the functioning of the internet, so that transparency and healthy competition prevail. the use of the internet should be restricted only when used for illegal activities, such as incitement to hatred, violence and racism, harmful propaganda and sexual exploitation. the eu should use programmes to support digital freedoms, especially in non-democratic societies and others going through transitional and revolutionary phases. i therefore call for cooperation and transparent decision-making to ensure the open and interactive nature of the internet. the eu should take responsibility for developing digital freedom rules and for resolving disputes and conflicts of jurisdiction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates the use of the open internet and information and communication technologies (ict) for economic, social, scientific, cultural and political development. despite their potential, competent authorities should take into account the human rights risks and dangers arising from the misuse of the internet and icts.
in writing. - we are increasingly aware of the importance of the internet and the means available on it in the global context. the recent revolutions in the arab world have made it clear to those who still had doubts about the importance of and the need to reflect on access and control of online content. despite the abuses that naturally exist, i believe that freedom and free initiative should also be given priority on digital platforms. the authorities must intervene to combat crime and distortions of truth and competition in the markets but should not, in principle, limit freedom of expression through these means, but should promote and defend it where it is concerned. i believe that this must be the attitude which a democratic and pluralist society such as the european one demands of its institutions. digital freedom is now an inescapable and inalienable part of the freedoms we want to have.
in writing. - we all know that technological development reduces distances and helps to overcome many obstacles. the internet has invaded our homes and everything is just a click away. online shopping, tax payments, consultations, information, complaints, etc. can all be done without leaving home, improving the efficiency of services and the quality of life of citizens. therefore, several member states (ms) have considered internet access to be a fundamental right. the european commission also believes that digital freedoms are part of the copenhagen criteria. the role of new digital technologies is essential to the progress of so-called modern societies. the eu, as a community at the forefront of the digital revolution, must have a strategy in this field and do everything possible to ensure that citizens in non-democratic countries or in countries in transition to democracy have their rights respected in relation to digital freedoms, including uncensored internet access.
in writing. − this report covers the full range of priorities for eu external action in the field of internet, mobile phones and ict. these priorities reflect, in the main, the interest of the major economic groups in these sectors. the report considers that 'digital freedom' and cross-border trade should help create business opportunities for european businesses, and the eu should set an agenda to encourage 'free trade' and business opportunities. more: believes that the commission should 'present a strategy to challenge measures by third countries to limit eu companies' access to their online markets'. contrary to what the title of this report might suggest, it is not a question here of defining a strategy for extending access to these extraordinary achievements of science and technology to the millions of human beings around the world who are still deprived of them. it is about seeking to broaden the business opportunities of eu companies in a sector dominated by an increasingly small number of large monopolies. we voted against it.
in writing. - i agree with the so-called digital freedom strategy. our digital freedoms are essential rights and are indispensable to traditional human rights, including freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, and are also indispensable to ensuring transparency and accountability in public life. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − technological developments are enabling citizens around the world to use new information and communication technologies (icts) and access the internet, and are driving change in societies in the way democracy works, governance, the economy, business activities, the media, development and international trade. i am voting in favour of this report because i believe that digital freedom encourages new forms of crossborder trade, has an impact on human rights and fundamental freedoms and improves communications on a global scale. finally, it is essential to ensure that the open and participatory nature of the internet is respected, that it is freely accessible to all, and that digital freedom is promoted, especially in countries where it continues to be denied to citizens.
in writing. − this report focuses on the set of priorities for eu external action in the field of internet, mobile phones and ict. priorities which reflect the interests of the major economic groups in this sector. it believes that 'digital freedom' and cross-border trade should help create business opportunities for european businesses and that the eu should set an agenda to encourage 'free trade'. it also believes that the european commission should 'present a strategy to challenge measures by third countries to limit eu companies' access to their online markets'. the aim is to expand the business opportunities of eu firms in a sector dominated by an increasingly small number of large monopolies. on the other hand, it refers to the possibility of restricting fundamental rights relating to freedom of expression in the name of a supposed 'security', which is nothing more than limiting it in the interests of the eu. in referring to a supposed freedom, what you are defending is the most blatant interference.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, direct investment has ceased to be a competence of the member states and has become an exclusive competence of the european union and an integral part of the european union's external trade policy. i think this is a positive objective, because it will boost trade and increase the competitiveness of the european economy as a whole. at the same time, i am pleased that this regulation does not mean that member states will no longer be able to have bilateral trade agreements. this report thus makes an important contribution to the further development of the european union's role as a global actor. the new regulation stresses that this role should be developed in line with the objectives of external actions (development, human rights, etc.).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the proposals of the council and the commission.
in writing. − at the time of the entry into force of the lisbon treaty (tl), member states had concluded some 1 400 bilateral investment agreements with third countries. however, the tl did not define any transitional mechanism for existing agreements, which are now the exclusive competence of the union. this regulation was therefore necessary to ensure a transition as smooth as possible, in order to reduce legal uncertainty during the transitional period as to the status of the existing treaties. i therefore voted in favour of this important regulation on international trade, which will make it possible to implement and give effect to one of the great demands of the tl! i would remind you that with the entry into force of the tl, foreign direct investment has been integrated into the common commercial policy. since this is an exclusive competence of the eu, this means that only the eu can legislate and adopt legally binding acts in this area, including the negotiation of treaties to protect the union's external investment. the member states can now do this themselves only if and when they are authorized to do so by the union.
in writing. − with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, in accordance with articles 206 and 207 tfeu, foreign direct investment becomes an exclusive competence of the union. the commission should also be able to provide information on the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries, including the union's macro-financial assistance to third countries, in accordance with the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. the transitional measures now adopted do not constitute a precedent for the union to empower member states, in the framework of future regulations, to legislate and adopt legally binding acts in areas of the union's exclusive competence.
in writing. the recommendation under consideration, drawn up by mr vital moreira, concerns the recommendation for second reading on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down transitional provisions for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries. the aim of this regulation is to reduce the legal uncertainty that exists with regard to the protection of investments made outside the eu, since the lisbon treaty (tl) did not provide for any protection. there are currently around 1,400 bilateral agreements in force which will be replaced by eu agreements giving greater transparency to these instruments and a high level of protection to eu investors. the proposal for a regulation is the result of a satisfactory agreement between the ep and the council, which took account of the ep's objectives, sets out the conditions under which new agreements can be negotiated and provides for their review within 10 years.
in writing. − trade policy is another area where the member states have been stripped of their powers and the eu has become exclusively competent in this area, with the known consequences for portugal. this is the basis of this proposal for a regulation, namely the application of article 207 (1) tfeu, which provides for the exclusive competence of the eu in the field of foreign direct investment in the framework of the common commercial policy. it is clear that the specific interests and constraints of certain countries have been ignored or even dealt with by the eu in the exercise of this competence. the damage caused by trade and investment policies which take account not of the particularities of the portuguese economy and its complementarities but of the interests of the major economic groups (in particular industry and services) of the major eu powers is therefore evident in the case of portugal. this evidence is the basis for our vote on this report - which approves a regulation which seeks to give the commission the power to withdraw authorizations, to ask member states to negotiate or to denounce bilateral investment treaties and to approve new ones. we voted against it, of course.
in writing. - this report on transitional provisions for bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries was adopted by a large majority in the committee on international trade. i voted in favour of the agreement because i consider it to be a positive overall approach.
in writing. − articles 206 and 207 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union place foreign direct investment (fdi) under the exclusive competence of the eu, including the ability to conclude fdi agreements covering market access conditions and rules on investment treatment and protection in the pre- and post-establishment periods. the fact that fdi was previously the sole responsibility of the member states makes it necessary to create a regulation establishing a transitional period between the new and the old system. the regulation proposed by the european commission lays down the conditions for this transition, while ensuring the protection of investments already made in the eu and setting criteria for negotiations initiated by member states that are still ongoing. the regulation thus aims to ensure legislative coherence during the transition to the new system over which the eu has exclusive competence. although the eu now has exclusive competence in relation to fdi, member states remain responsible for the promotion activity for fdi. in view of the above, i voted in favour of the report which proposes the application of the regulation confirming the new powers of the european commission in relation to fdi.
in writing. − trade policy is another area where member states have been removed from competence and the eu has become exclusively competent in this area. this is the basis of this proposal for a regulation, namely the application of article 207 (1) tfeu, which provides for the exclusive competence of the eu in the field of foreign direct investment, within the framework of the common commercial policy. it is clear that the specific interests and constraints of certain countries have been ignored or even ignored in the exercise of this competence by the eu. the damage caused by trade and investment policies which take account not of the particularities of the portuguese economy and its complementarities but of the interests of the major economic groups (in particular industry and services) of the major eu powers is therefore evident in the case of portugal. this evidence is the basis for our vote on this report approving a regulation which seeks to give the commission the power to withdraw authorizations, to ask member states to negotiate or to denounce bilateral investment treaties and to approve new ones. it is an interference in the commercial policy of the member states with which we are deeply disagree ing.
in writing. - i approve this report because, in line with the european union's commitments at the 2008 donors' conference, we must financially assist the state of georgia so that this country can overcome the adverse effects of the global crisis. i think it is positive that this assistance is intended to support georgia's economic reform agenda and help reduce its financial vulnerability in the short term. more importantly, it has been stipulated that in order to provide financial assistance to georgia, the country and its authorities must postpone the structural reforms to be carried out.
in writing. − the impasse over the approval of macrofinancial assistance to georgia is similar to that for the kyrgyz republic and concerns the differences between the european parliament and the council over the comitology rules to be applied to the agreement. parliament advocates the use of the consultative procedure, while the council advocates the application of the examination procedure, which gives it greater scope for using comitology. in line with this, and for the same set of reasons as those i put forward in my explanation of vote on macro-financial assistance to the kyrgyz republic (see explanation of vote report a7-0208/2012), i voted in favour of this report and reaffirmed the importance of turning words into action with regard to the effective implementation of the lisbon treaty. it is difficult to understand why, three years after its entry into force, we are still faced with resistance to the new division of powers between the european parliament, the council and the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in favour of eu financial support to georgia of up to eur 500 million, given the worrying increase in the country's external financing needs. such support should, however, ensure effective protection of the financial interests of the union. to this end, georgia should also take appropriate measures to prevent and combat fraud, corruption and any other irregularities related to this assistance.
in writing. - georgia has not escaped the present financial crisis unscathed, with trade and budgetary weaknesses. the european union has not renounced its role as the world's largest donor and has sought to reach out to that country. however, there is no interinstitutional agreement on the way in which this aid should be adopted, and it has therefore become necessary to adopt an interim solution which, by not binding the institutions for the future, makes it possible to make the aid promised feasible. i hope that the aid will be made available soon, that georgia can regain the stability that has been affected in the meantime and that the european institutions can come to an understanding on a permanent basis so as to avoid situations like the one we are facing.
in writing. the council also adopted a recommendation on the establishment of a european union macro-financial assistance programme for georgia. within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy, the european union (eu) and georgia maintain bilateral relations in accordance with the european neighbourhood policy action plan agreed in 2006. following the armed conflict between georgia and the russian federation in august 2008, the eu showed a willingness to strengthen its relations with georgia and committed itself in october 2008 at the international donors' conference to help georgia's economic recovery. however, georgia's financial situation has worsened in the context of the global economic and financial crisis, which led it to request macro-financial assistance from the eu.
in writing. - this regulation approves, at second reading, the mobilisation of eur 46 million of macro-financial assistance for georgia, covering the second part of the assistance promised in 2008, following the armed conflict with russia and as a consequence of the global crisis. this eu macro-financial assistance is intended to contribute to meeting georgia's external financing needs identified in cooperation with the imf in the context of the imf stand-by arrangement of usd 1,17 billion in force since october 2008. this assistance will be provided half in the form of grants and half in the form of loans and should contribute to helping georgia cope with the economic consequences of the conflict with russia and the global crisis and support the economic reform programme of the government of georgia. the principle of cooperation and genuine development aid, which must be developed further, in respect for the sovereign will and choices of each state, is not in question. however, this type of assistance is typically accompanied by demands for 'structural and macroeconomic reforms', which we reject.
in writing. − relations between georgia and the european union are developing within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. the macro-financial assistance is considered an appropriate response to the request of georgia, given the current exceptional circumstances and with a view to supporting economic stabilisation in conjunction with the imf programme. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this legislative resolution of the european parliament on the council's position at first reading and with a view to adopting the decision of the european parliament and the council granting additional macrofinancial assistance to georgia.
in writing. − in january 2011, the european commission put forward a proposal to provide additional macro-financial assistance to georgia, thus helping the country to overcome its financial crisis. i believe that it is necessary to continue to support georgia in an amount similar to that of the first tranche of eur 46 million. i believe that additional support will be very important in helping georgia to cope with the economic consequences of the conflict with russia, the world crisis and the government's economic reform programme. finally, i would stress the financial vulnerability of the georgian economy and the need for reforms to help ensure a more sustainable balance of payments and budgetary situation in the medium term.
in writing. - this regulation approves, at second reading, the mobilisation of eur 46 million of macro-financial assistance for georgia, covering the second part of the assistance promised in 2008, following the armed conflict with russia and as a consequence of the global crisis. this eu macro-financial assistance is intended to contribute to meeting georgia's external financing needs identified in cooperation with the imf in the context of the imf stand-by arrangement of usd 1,17 billion in force since october 2008. the principle of cooperation and genuine development aid, which must be developed further, in respect for the sovereign will and choices of each state, is not in question. however, this type of assistance is typically accompanied by demands for 'structural and macroeconomic reforms', which we reject. in other words, we are not talking about genuine cooperation but about the guarantee of reciprocity and the imposition of political models.
in writing. - i welcome this report, considering that with this report the directive will extend the powers of the agency to prevent environmental disasters such as oil spills, combat piracy at sea and give it a stronger role in improving the training of professionals in the sectors associated with the sea. i also welcome the progress made by the agency, through the emaritime initiative, in bringing formalities into the maritime area without barriers and in giving it more powers for relations with neighbouring countries. i would also stress the importance of the contribution that this agency can make to other policy objectives, such as reducing emissions of polluting gases from shipping and improving the environmental status of european waters.
in writing. − the european maritime safety agency (emsa) was set up in response to the pollution caused by the sinking of the oil tanker erika and started its work in march 2003. the agency shall contribute to ensuring maritime safety and preventing marine pollution caused by ships, including by monitoring and evaluating the implementation of relevant eu legislation. an important part of its work involves advising the commission and/or the member states. it is generally recognised as an efficient and well-managed organisation which provides member states with considerable savings by operating at european level, with the economies of scale this generates. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the current fourth amendment to the basic regulation proposed by the council.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation for the adoption of a regulation aimed at extending for the fourth time the range of action and responsibilities of the european maritime safety agency (emsa). established in 2003 in response to pollution caused by the sinking of the oil tanker erika, the emsa is now helping to ensure maritime safety and prevent pollution of european waters by monitoring and assessing the implementation of relevant european legislation. without seeking to replace or duplicate the work of the member states, esma creates added value by ensuring coordination and exchange of good practice and by enhancing the effective organisation of tasks by taking them to a supranational level which in turn generates economies of scale and therefore considerable savings at european level. as portugal is a maritime nation and the eu country with the largest area of jurisdictional waters, apart from the maritime zones of the overseas territories of france and the united kingdom, i would highlight from the set of wider responsibilities of the emsa the capacity to prevent and combat natural disasters, the improvement of seafarers' training and the promotion of a european maritime area without barriers, with freedom of movement similar to that of road transport of people and goods.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european maritime safety agency because it gives the agency new powers, in particular the prevention of environmental disasters, and promotes synergies with other policy priorities, such as the reduction of greenhouse gases from ships and the maintenance of the good ecological status of marine waters.
in writing. − the emsa was set up in 2003 in response to the erika oil tanker disaster and the environmental contingencies it created. since then its mission has been focused on disaster prevention at sea and maritime safety. it now intends to extend its activities to 'the creation of a european maritime area without barriers', making it possible to transport goods and passengers by sea between member states without any more formalities than those applied to road transport. i believe that this task is essential at the present economic juncture in europe, since the sea can create important business and trade opportunities which can and must be encouraged.
in writing. − the european maritime safety agency (emsa), established in 2002 under regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 and based in lisbon, is a european union (eu) body with legal personality whose mission is to provide technical and scientific support to the member states (ms) and the commission in the correct application of community legislation on maritime safety. the emsa was established as a means of responding to the problems of marine pollution following the sinking of the oil tanker erika. this recommendation for second reading, drafted by knut fleckenstein, concerns the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation of the european parliament (ep) and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing the european securities and markets authority. the european environment agency has a major responsibility in preventing pollution caused by offshore oil and gas installations and the transport of these fuels, and can also help to combat piracy, which in recent years has caused panic in some regions, such as the horn of africa.'
in writing. the report approves the council's position at first reading. this position is aimed at increasing the capacity of the european maritime safety agency to prevent and combat environmental disasters such as oil spills. we recognize the validity of the environmental concerns mentioned in the report. a coordinated response to pollution by harmful and dangerous substances such as hydrocarbons is needed. but we cannot but reiterate here that we do not agree with solutions which disrespect the sovereignty of states over their exclusive economic zones (eezs), which supersede national authorities and jurisdictions, and which centralise the definition of maritime strategies in the eu. it should be remembered that portugal is one of the countries in the world with the largest eez. the report also mentions the role of the emsa in the fight against maritime piracy, making use of earth observation data from the galileo, egnos and gmes systems, information exchanges with the eu naval force's atalanta operation, and the realisation of the 'european maritime area without barriers'. these are areas where we have known reservations and disagreements.
in writing. − this report proposes to extend the powers of the european maritime safety agency. the agency is recognised as an efficient and well-managed organisation that provides member states with considerable savings by operating at european level, with the economies of scale this generates. the revised regulation of the european maritime safety agency will increase the agency's capacity to prevent and combat environmental disasters such as oil spills and will also contribute, at the request of the european parliament, to the fight against maritime piracy. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european maritime safety agency (emsa) contributes to ensuring safety and preventing marine pollution caused by ships, in particular by monitoring and assessing the implementation of relevant european union legislation. i am voting in favour of the recommendation to strengthen the agency's powers, in particular to prevent and combat environmental disasters, to combat maritime piracy and to improve training for maritime and inland waterway transport jobs. it is generally recognised as an efficient and well-managed organisation which provides member states with considerable savings by operating at european level, with the economies of scale this generates. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the agency in establishing relations between neighbouring countries with sea coasts and the synergies that can be found at european level, as well as in building a european maritime area without barriers.
in writing. the report endorses the council's first reading position to increase the capacity of the european maritime safety agency, with the express aim of preventing and combating environmental disasters such as oil spills. we recognize the validity of the environmental concerns mentioned in the report. a coordinated response to pollution by harmful and dangerous substances such as hydrocarbons is needed. but we cannot but reiterate here that we do not agree with solutions which disrespect the sovereignty of states over their exclusive economic zones (eezs), which supersede national authorities and jurisdictions, and which centralise the definition of maritime strategies in the eu. it should be remembered that portugal is one of the countries in the world with the largest eez.
in writing. - i support this report because the debate on the creation of a unitary patent is as old as the internal market. in times of economic and social crisis, i declare my support for the european resources initiative, which i consider to be the greatest opportunity to harness innovation in europe in intellectual property since the creation of the european union patent. i also believe that the creation of the unitary patent puts an end to a long decade of fruitless negotiations. in my view, patent unity should be ensured in the member states based on a single application which could reduce applicant costs by 70%. furthermore, i argue that patent holders should pay a renewable annual fee so that the patent unit is successful.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the commission proposal and the amendments tabled by the european parliament.
in writing. − patent granting in europe is governed by the european patent convention an intergovernmental agreement between the 38 european states, including all 27 member states but not the eu itself. today, a 'european patent' application is nothing more than a set of national patents to be validated in each state where the applicant wishes protection. once the patent has been obtained, it shall be translated into the official language of each member state. and in the event of a dispute, it has to be heard in the various national courts. the cost of validating a patent currently ranges from eur 22 000 to eur 26 000 for eu-wide coverage, with an estimated eur 205 to 230 million spent by eu companies on patent costs. we are faced with a system that is too complex, too costly and where costly litigation in various jurisdictions can even result in conflicting decisions. the creation of a european patent system is now more than a necessity, it is an evidence for creating more favourable conditions for investment in r & d, boosting innovation and creating jobs. i therefore vote in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the creation of a new system for patent protection which will make it easier for any company or individual to protect his inventions in other member states. the eu successfully concludes more than 30 years of negotiations by creating a modern patent system that will reduce costs by 80% and help boost innovation and competitiveness in the european area.
in writing. − 25 member states, including portugal, intend to establish enhanced cooperation between themselves, in accordance with article 20 of the treaty on european union and articles 326 et seq. of the tfeu, in the field of the creation of unitary patent protection. given all the interests at stake, and in particular the economic interests, i am voting in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing enhanced cooperation in the field of the creation of unitary patent protection, although i do not hide that i still have some doubts as to whether this proposal provides adequate protection for the linguistic diversity of the eu. however, i follow the portuguese government's position in expressing its willingness to participate in enhanced cooperation in this area.
in writing. the report under review, by bernhard rapkay, deals with the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament (ep) and of the council implementing enhanced cooperation in the field of the creation of unitary patent protection. because of the cost of patent recognition, many smes did not proceed with their recognition as their costs were about 20 times higher than those of the united states of america and 11 times those of japan. smes had to register in all the member states where they wanted to operate and spent €4,000 on translations alone. this is a regulation vital to the future competitiveness of the european union and which will catalyse economic growth and job creation. smes will be able to compete with their products throughout the eu without the need for recognition in each member state. i regret that it has been necessary to resort to enhanced cooperation, but the urgency of the matter requires it, and i hope that it will be implemented as soon as possible, as it will have a very positive impact on business and investment.
in writing. the aim of this regulation is to create a mechanism for the 'automatic' licensing of a patent throughout the european area, thus going beyond the current obligation to translate/register in each country. we recognize the need for the procedural requirements for registering a patent to be within the reach of a micro, small or medium-sized enterprise, a small university or even an individual inventor. but as we said during the debate in the plenary, we have a number of concerns about this specific proposal for the creation of a european unitary patent. firstly, a wider and necessarily longer public debate was required, which did not take place, leaving the impression that the whole process is being driven by the big industrial interests of a few more industrialized countries, leaving the public interest behind once again. the proposal to set up a unified patent court and the consequent loss of sovereignty and national capacity to intervene in this area are clearly dangerous. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the rapkay report on the european patent because it is an essential element of a genuine european internal market. an integrated economy with a patenting system fragmented at national level is not really understood. patents must be valid throughout the union and have a single registration. in addition, the unified register makes it easier for smes to register patents, rather than having to bear the costs of registering in all member states. it is a pity that italy and spain have chosen to stay out for linguistic reasons, but it seems clear that the stakes are so high that the linguistic commitment is well worth it.
in writing. − this report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing enhanced cooperation in the field of the creation of unitary patent protection aims to make it possible to grant a european patent with unitary effect in respect of all or part of the territories of the participating member states. i am in favour of this proposal and therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − there are currently two ways of registering a patent: through the national institute of industrial property (or the equivalent institute in another member state) or through the european patent office (epo), based in munich, federal republic of germany. however, the registration in the epo has to be validated separately in all the member states in which protection is sought, implying that the registration has to be translated into the respective official languages of the member states in which patent protection is sought. given the existence of translation requirements, the cost of registering patents in the eu is extremely high, complex and, in the event of a dispute, can lead to conflicting decisions, depending on the member state where the dispute is initiated. this prevents the existence of a 'true european patent', which may discourage potential investors. i therefore share the rapporteur's view that a patent should be created which would enjoy the same benefits in a unitary manner in all the member states which have decided to adopt the 'single patent', and the person who submits the patent will be able to choose whether or not it will be protected in all the member states. however, i voted against the report because of the linguistic solution adopted for the single patent.
in writing. the aim of this regulation is to create a mechanism for the 'automatic' licensing of a patent throughout the european area, thus going beyond the current obligation to translate/register in each country. we recognize the need for the procedural requirements for registering a patent to be within the reach of a micro, small or medium-sized enterprise, a small university or even an individual inventor. we believe, however, that there has been no extensive and prolonged public discussion, and that this process has been driven by the major industrial interests of some of the more industrialized countries. on the other hand, the proposal to create a unified patent court and the consequent loss of sovereignty and the ability of states to legislate in this area are clearly dangerous. finally, the issue of language and the need to safeguard equal treatment without discrimination or privileged status should be highlighted. with this proposal, it is clear that the preferred language for patenting will be english. we consider that this is not a good option. that is why we are voting against it.
in writing. − i approve this report, the main aim of which is to create an environmentally friendly reimbursement scheme for smes in the european union for the costs of translation and of translation 'machines' for the certification of patent applications. i think this is extremely beneficial, considering that translation requirements can be as high as eighty-five euros per page, which makes the patent process in the european union ten times more expensive than the patent system in the united states of america.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the proposed measures on the translation regime for the european patent and the specific measures for smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, the content of which must be understood in the light and in the context of the three reports on the establishment of unitary patent protection in the eu. harmonizing patent law has been a european goal since 1960. however, multiple and significant obstacles, in particular related to the issue of languages and patent litigation, have repeatedly hindered the establishment of unitary patent protection in the eu. currently, through a commitment under the eu's enhanced cooperation mechanisms, 25 member states (spain and italy did not accept, raising linguistic objections) have agreed to continue the effort to make the european patent system more dynamic, efficient and competitive. however, i would clarify that the decision to limit the translation of patents to the working languages of the eu and therefore of the european patent office, provided for in council decision 2011/167/eu as regards the applicable translation regime, arises from the need to harmonise the system by making it faster and enhancing the participation of smes by introducing competitiveness gains and cost reductions. it should not therefore be understood as setting a precedent for the implementation of a limited language regime in the framework of a future eu legal instrument.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it advocates a set of measures which will help to reduce the costs of translating patent information. thanks to the contribution of the european parliament, the costs of translation will be fully reimbursed to smes, which is an important contribution to their competitiveness.
in writing. - the present report, by raffaele baldassarre, deals with the proposal for a council regulation implementing enhanced cooperation in the field of the creation of unitary patent protection as regards the applicable translation regime. the system of mutual recognition of patents by the member states of the european union (eu) is a major step forward in the consolidation of the single market. in addition to being an instrument that facilitates innovation, it represents a significant reduction in operating costs for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). one of the most burdensome aspects of patent protection was the cost of translating it into the language of each member state. i welcome the fact that this translation is no longer necessary - although it is free to do so - and i hope that italy and spain will also adopt this regulation. europeans are in great need of this instrument to revitalise the economy and help the eu emerge from the crisis.
in writing. - this report is part of the legislative process aimed at creating a 'unitary european patent'. the aim is to overcome the current translation/registration requirement in each country, which places a significant burden on the patent process for inventions. the question is relevant, though complex. that in itself would require a much wider and necessarily longer public debate. the way in which the process has been conducted inevitably gives the impression that it is the major industrial interests of a few of the more industrialized countries which are predominant. the privileged status enjoyed by english, french and german has led to the subordination of other languages, such as portuguese, the third most widely spoken european language in the world, thus harming the interests of these other countries, and from the outset restricting the possibility of their languages also asserting themselves in the fields of science and technology. these concerns should be reconciled with the aims of simplification and cost reduction, so as to make the procedural requirements for registering a patent bearable by a micro, small or medium-sized enterprise, a small university or even an individual inventor.
in writing. − a well-functioning patent system that is able to respond to the real needs of users plays a vital role in the eu's economic growth and competitiveness. the objective of achieving unitary patent protection in the eu has been pursued by the member states for almost half a century. i am glad that the commission has taken this step, and i am glad that it has done so.
in writing. - there are two ways of registering a patent: through the national institute of industrial property (in portugal) or through the european patent office (epo). however, the registration in the epo has to be validated separately in all the member states in which protection is sought, implying that the registration has to be translated into the respective official languages of the member states in which patent protection is sought. given the translation requirements, the cost of registering patents at european level is extremely high, complex and can, in the event of a dispute, lead to contradictory decisions. this prevents the existence of a 'true european patent', which discourages potential investors. i do not agree, however, with the rapporteur when he says that the number of languages for patent registration should be the same as that already used by the epo. as english is the lingua franca of international trade and as a large proportion of patents at european level are filed in english, the need for a gallo-germanic solution in linguistic terms is incomprehensible. in addition, this rule cannot and should not serve as a precedent for future limitations on the use of all the official eu languages.
in writing. - i approve of this report, considering first of all that the existence of a specialised patent court ready to issue high-quality decisions quickly, in full compliance with european union law, is a key point for the success of a unitary patent. i therefore regard this proposal as positive, since it reduces costs for companies and research and development institutions and thus contributes to the economic growth of the european union. i therefore recommend that the member states of the european union amend the agreement as soon as possible by establishing the unified patent court, ensuring that the court of justice of the european union prevails in its role of harmonising with european law.
in writing. − the patent system currently in force in europe provides for national patents granted by the industrial property institutes of the member states or a european patent granted by the european patent office (epo). when granted, the european patent is divided into a set of national patents covered by national law. this system is very costly and subject to legal action in several countries, which, besides entailing high costs and risks, often results in contradictory judgments. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it of the utmost importance to put an end to the fragmented patent system currently in force and to create unitary patent protection by establishing a unified patent court.
in writing. - after decades of deadlock on such a sensitive subject, i am pleased to see that the conditions for the creation of a genuine single patent market, capable of providing legal certainty, introducing efficiency through the harmonisation of the various existing systems, and being internationally competitive, have been met. the high degree of fragmentation of the patent market in the eu today and the clear disparities in enforcement make it difficult to use the patent system, prevent effective protection of patent rights, generate costs and, above all, seriously hinder innovation and the progress of the internal market. this need for a dispute resolution system should therefore be met through a unified court system that is cost-effective and can be financed in such a way as to ensure equal access to justice for all patent holders, including smes, natural persons or ngos. i stress the importance of smes in the eu's business fabric and that in times of crisis like the present, access to cheaper patents can mean more innovation, gains in competitiveness and more jobs! and that is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the creation of a unified patent dispute settlement system. the current fragmentation of the patent market and disparities in enforcement hamper innovation and progress in the internal market. these measures are also essential for the effective completion of the internal market.
in writing. the european parliament (ep) has just approved the creation of a system for unitary patent protection in the european union (eu) after several decades of debate on this subject. europe must prepare for its future through an economy that creates its own jobs and is innovative. property rights should accompany this modern registration system to make life easier for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). at present, to protect a patent, we have to initiate proceedings in 27 member states which cost more than €32,000. to improve confidence in this system and increase legal certainty, we need a specialised court that can adjudicate on disputes relating to the unitary patent. the report by mr klaus-heiner lehne deals with a new system of courts for the settlement of patent disputes. the unified patent court is an important step, as it will reduce the costs of litigation, strengthen the functioning of the internal market and the competitiveness of smes.
in writing. - this own-initiative report completes the package on the creation of the 'european unitary patent' by focusing on one of the aspects of this process which we consider to be the most worrying: the proposal to create a unified patent court. this solution, which was not part of the commission's initial proposal, has been the cause of justified indignation among a number of citizens, organisations and social movements. the loss of sovereignty and national capacity to intervene is at stake, as the powers of the national courts are transferred to a european court. this will enable national limitations on the legal effects of patents to be removed where biological material is concerned (living beings or parts of living beings, gene sequences, etc.). it is unacceptable and dangerous. there are many ethical questions that arise regarding the possibility of "patenting life" and even more so the possible economic and social repercussions. on the other hand, in the case of legal litigation, the process will be much more complex, burdensome and therefore inaccessible to citizens and small organisations.
in writing. − an efficient patent system in europe can make a significant contribution to securing growth through innovation. european companies, especially smes, need these tools to cope with the current economic crisis and to remain competitive on the world stage. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report which favours the emergence of a knowledge-based economy.
in writing. - there are currently two ways of registering a patent: through the national institute of industrial property (in the case of portugal) or through the european patent office (epo). however, the registration in the pii has to be validated separately in all the member states where protection is sought, implying that for this purpose the registration has to be translated into the respective official languages. translation requirements increase the cost of registering patents in the eu considerably and may lead to conflicting decisions in the event of a dispute, depending on the member state in which the dispute is initiated. i share the rapporteur's view that the creation of a unified patent court, following the recommendations of the court of justice, will avoid contradictory decisions and different rules of procedure in litigation, as is currently the case, and would substantially reduce the costs associated with litigation. however, i voted against the report because of the linguistic solution adopted for the single patent.
in writing. - using the mask of an association agreement, it is in reality a 'free trade' agreement which provides for reductions in customs duties and 'freedom of investment' for large capital. the consequences will be serious, particularly for the sovereignty and the right to development of the peoples of the countries of central america, whose economies are 150 times smaller than those of the eu. these include the destruction of the productive capacity of these countries, the outflow of foreign currency, the reduction in revenue from customs duties and the consequent increase in budgetary difficulties in countries whose tax revenue, due to the high degree of informality of economic activity, is very low. the pressure to reduce wages and social rights will increase, unemployment and poverty will increase. there will be accelerated destruction of natural resources (particularly land and water) and the environment, the establishment of monocultures that will destroy the food production capacity of those countries, making them more dependent. the pressure to lower prices on production will increase, resulting in the disappearance of thousands of small farms and the concentration of land ownership. in addition to economic interest, the eu also has a geostrategic interest in trying to create divisions in the processes of sovereign and solidarity-based integration of latin america, in particular alba.
in writing. - 25 member states, including portugal, intend to establish enhanced cooperation between themselves in the field of the creation of unitary patent protection. we must not forget that the cost of a european patent is currently about ten times that of a us or japanese patent, which hinders scientific and technological innovation and puts european companies at a competitive disadvantage. the creation of unitary patent protection could end the complexity of validating european patents in each member state and improve the level of patent protection by making it possible to achieve uniform patent protection in the territories of the member states participating in enhanced cooperation, thus eliminating the costs and complexity of the patent validation and protection process, with all the benefits for companies.
in writing. − there is widespread recognition of the competitive disadvantage faced by european companies due to the absence of european patent protection with unitary effect, which the union has so far been unable to create. this proposal, which establishes the enhanced cooperation procedure, builds on the existing european patent system and provides for the conferral of unitary effect to european patents granted in the territories of the participating member states. unitary patent protection will be optional and should coexist with national and european patents. i have no doubt that the present system needs to be simplified and that administrative burdens and costs, especially with regard to translation requirements, need to be reduced. to do this, it would be advisable to adopt only one language, english. i am totally opposed to the solution which has been found, which establishes an unacceptable distinction between the european languages, with the choice of english, german and french over the others. i also express my concern about the model chosen, which raises doubts as to legal certainty by denying the possibility of appeal to the court of justice.
in writing. - i approve this agreement, considering that the fundamental objective should be to promote social cohesion and regional integration in central america. i only hope that the high expectations placed on this agreement will be confirmed. on the other hand, i only approve this agreement because of the existence of a safeguard clause, because it will on the one hand protect european industry and its economy from any damage caused by the agreement and on the other hand will require better respect for human rights and decent working conditions in central america.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the bilateral safeguard clause, which provides for the possibility of re-establishing the most-favoured-nation tariff rate, and with the stabilisation mechanism for bananas, under which the preferential tariff rate may be suspended if a certain annual volume of imports is reached.
in writing. - both the association agreement with central america and the trade agreement with colombia and peru provide for reductions in customs duties on imports of bananas, which has been a cause for concern for european producers, who are almost exclusively located in the outermost regions. costa rica and colombia are two of the world's leading exporters of bananas. i do not want to repeat what i said in this declaration of vote about the safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism in the trade agreement with colombia and peru, and i would like to congratulate rapporteur jörg leichtfried and my colleagues from the ppe, pablo zalba (shadow rapporteur) and josé ignácio salafranca sánchez-neyra (rapporteur on the association agreement) on their excellent work in bringing together positions on a complex matter involving the interests of 34 countries (28 +6).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the eu-central america association agreement, as it includes provisions to ensure that the liberalisation process is carried out in a transparent manner, in accordance with the most important international labour and environmental conventions, so as to avoid penalising the most vulnerable sectors and regions. to emphasise the specific provisions on monitoring and reporting, including the assessment of impacts on employment, working conditions, organic products, fair trade flows, the outermost regions and small structures and cooperatives.
in writing. − in october 2011, the european commission sent a proposal to the european parliament to incorporate the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas into eu law. the proposal constitutes the legal instrument necessary to implement such measures and to provide a legal framework for operators on the banana market. the central america agreement includes a bilateral safeguard clause providing for the possibility of reinstating the most-favoured-nation tariff rate in cases where imports are made in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause, or threaten to cause, serious injury to eu producers producing like or directly competing products. this agreement is therefore necessary to maintain the protection of the rights of eu banana producers.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament and the council adopt a common position on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and central america, of the other part. the document in question contains a safeguard clause designed to protect european producers against unfair competition. it must be an effective safeguard clause which requires respect for human rights, social rights such as compliance with ilo recommendations, environmental rights, etc. we must, however, pay particular attention to the eu's outermost banana-producing regions so that they do not see their jobs threatened, and i hope that the safeguard clauses will be a guarantee for european trade.
in writing. the compromise from the committee on international trade introduces amendments to try to offset the 'deeply negative' consequences that this free trade agreement will have for the six central american countries that signed it and for the eu countries. this agreement liberalises trade in certain agricultural products in whole or in part. the banana is the main agricultural product in all these countries' exports, with the us multinationals being the main producers, in vast areas of monoculture where the working conditions of local peasants approach slavery. for these reasons, numerous organizations have denounced the social, labour and environmental dumping resulting from this agreement, and more generally from free trade and the subjection of agriculture to the rules of the world trade organization. the safeguard clause and the stability mechanism proposed here will be of little use. the stabilisation mechanism will not be automatic, since the european commission will be free to apply it or not. parliament here acknowledges its inability (and we add: unwillingness) to oppose the commission, despite all the propaganda that has been made about its increased role in trade policy.
in writing. − being constantly aware of the negative effects that this type of trade agreement, in this particular case between the eu and the countries of central america, may have on european agriculture, i voted in favour of this report on the implementation of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas in the eu-central america trade agreement, as i consider them useful instruments to mitigate the potential disruptive effects on the eu market resulting from these types of agreements. the more general bilateral safeguard clause provides for the possibility of reimbursing the most-favoured-nation duty rate in cases where imports resulting from these agreements are so increased in quantities that they threaten to cause serious injury to eu producers; the stabilisation mechanism for bananas applies until 1 january 2020 and is activated when, in a given calendar year, the trigger volume (determined specific volume of imports) is reached, giving the eu the right to suspend preferential imports until the end of the year, albeit only for a period of 3 months.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a regulation today aimed at implementing the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas under the association agreement between the european union and central america. in this context, the production and economy of the outermost regions should not be adversely affected by increased imports of bananas from third countries. the document aims to establish appropriate safeguard instruments to prevent significant damage to the union's banana crops, a sector with a significant weight in the agricultural production of many outermost regions, in accordance with article 349 tfeu. those safeguard measures should be established as soon as the product concerned, imported into the union, causes or threatens to cause injury to producers in the outermost regions of the union producing like or directly competing products. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the agreement provides for partial or total liberalization of trade in certain agricultural products. the banana is the main agricultural product in all these countries' exports, and the american multinationals are the main producers, in vast areas of monoculture where the working conditions of local peasants are close to slavery. for these reasons, numerous organizations have denounced the social, labour and environmental dumping resulting from this agreement, and more generally from free trade and the subjection of agriculture to the rules of the world trade organization. the safeguard clause and the stability mechanism proposed here will be of little use. the stabilisation mechanism will not be automatic, since the european commission will be free to apply it or not. the majority of parliament is here, once again, a faithful sounding board for the european commission.
in writing. - i approve of this agreement because in my view it goes beyond a trade agreement, as it involves a political chapter which requires respect for the rule of law and human rights, with the possibility of suspending the agreement in the event of non-compliance. the objective should be to foster social cohesion and regional integration in central america. in this area it is important to monitor the sustainability of european sectors affected by agreements with central america.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the agreement establishing an association between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and central america, on the other, contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the european union's external action.
in writing. the association agreement (aa) between the european union and central america represents the first bi-regional aa concluded by the eu since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. the primary objectives of the eu-latin america bi-regional strategic partnership are the elaboration of bilateral and sub-regional association agreements aiming at regional, social, economic and cultural integration. for these partnerships to develop, respect for democratic values, the rule of law, political dialogue and the human rights of all citizens will be necessary. the eu is central america's largest investor and second largest trading partner, as well as its largest donor of development aid. the conclusion of a partnership agreement is in the mutual interest of all eu member states and is full of advantages. i hope that the conclusion and ratification of the association agreement, which provides for tariff reductions with the aim of creating a bi-regional free trade area, will be facilitated in order to encourage profitable investment with greater prominence for central america in world trade in the context of sustainable development, social cohesion and regional integration.
in writing. - on the same day as we approved my report on consent to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru, we also approved consent to an association agreement between the eu and six central american countries (costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama), with my party colleague josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra as rapporteur, whom i already congratulate on the excellent work he has done. as in colombia and peru, this agreement is estimated to have substantial positive effects on gdp (0.5% in nicaragua to 3.5% in costa rica). the commission estimates an annual saving for european exporters of eur 87 million in customs duties. as in the agreement with colombia and peru, this agreement also contains clauses on development cooperation and political dialogue with a view to promoting sustainable development, reducing poverty and consolidating stability in the region.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this agreement because i consider that, in addition to the economic benefits related to trade liberalisation, the text contains important clauses on development cooperation and political dialogue, with a view to helping to promote sustainable development, reduce poverty and consolidate stability in the central american region.
in writing. - as the first association agreement to be concluded between regions, the agreement with central america is a welcome pioneering step. europe's affinities with that region and the mutual interest in closer relations are evident. the european union will have a further privileged channel for promoting stability, peace and democracy in that region. it is also clear that the european union is the model for the regional integration projects currently under way in the world. it must therefore be demonstrated that this project is not closed in on itself but is prepared to establish solid and lasting partnerships with other parts of the world, in particular those with which it maintains a special relationship of historical, linguistic and cultural proximity. it is difficult to understand part of europe's history without acknowledging the presence of europeans on other continents and without seeking to understand the composite societies they helped to build. the nations of central america are products of this common history. in the future, they will be closer together again and hopefully we will be able to write a new page in this story for the benefit of all.
in writing. − trade relations between the european union (eu) and third countries, including emerging economies and young democracies, are key to consolidating a rule of law where eu values and principles are respected. indeed, it was this philosophy that guided the swedish academy when it awarded the 2012 nobel peace prize to the eu: 'for more than six decades contributing to the advancement of peace and reconciliation, democracy and human rights in europe'. mr josé ignacio salafranca sánchez-neyra presents the interim report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement establishing an association between the eu and its member states, on the one hand, and central america, on the other. the agreement is based on three pillars: political dialogue, the promotion of trade on favourable terms and aid to developing countries.
in writing. - contrary to what is stated in this report, this agreement will not benefit the workers and peoples of the eu and central american countries. the intention is to open the doors of these countries to european investment, to open the door to the major european economic groups, especially industry and services, to colonize promising markets, to gain access to cheap and unprotected labour and to abundant natural resources, promoting intensive production models, export-oriented, which exhaust natural resources and degrade the environment. the pressure to lower prices on production will increase, resulting in the disappearance of thousands of small farms and the concentration of land ownership. in addition to economic interest, the eu also has a geostrategic interest in the region, seeking to create divisions in the processes of sovereign and solidarity-based integration under way in latin america, notably alba, trying to create sources of possible confrontation and instability.
in writing. the association agreement voted on in this report contributes to the achievement of the objectives of the union's external action as set out in article 21 of the treaty on european union. the agreement sets social cohesion and the reduction of poverty, inequality, social exclusion and all forms of discrimination as the primary objectives of regional cooperation policies. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with these objectives, and i am particularly attentive to agreements of this kind because of the real risk of serious damage to certain portuguese productive sectors, particularly agriculture.
in writing. − the association agreement between the european union and central america is an important step as it is the first bi-regional association agreement concluded by the eu since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. as the first comprehensive partnership between regions, it should make a decisive contribution to the integration of central america and go far beyond free trade issues. for these reasons, i support the conclusion of the agreement, recalling that safeguard measures must be guaranteed for the production of the outermost regions which are affected by the increase in imports resulting from this agreement.
in writing. - using the mask of an association agreement, it is in reality a 'free trade' agreement which provides for reductions in customs duties and 'freedom of investment' for large capital. the consequences will be serious, particularly for the sovereignty and the right to development of the peoples of the countries of central america, whose economies are 150 times smaller than those of the eu. these include the destruction of the productive capacity of these countries, the outflow of foreign currency, the reduction in revenue from customs duties and the consequent increase in budgetary difficulties in countries whose tax revenue, due to the high degree of informality of economic activity, is very low. the pressure to reduce wages and social rights will increase, unemployment and poverty will increase. there will be accelerated destruction of natural resources (particularly land and water) and the environment. the pressure to lower prices on production will increase, resulting in the disappearance of thousands of small farms and the concentration of land ownership. in addition to economic interest, the eu also has a geostrategic interest in trying to create divisions in the processes of sovereign and solidarity-based integration of latin america, in particular in alba.
in writing. - the name 'association agreement' conceals a free trade agreement which provides for reductions in customs duties and 'freedom of investment' for large capital. the consequences will be serious, particularly for the sovereignty and the right to development of the peoples of the countries of central america, whose economies are 150 times smaller than those of the eu. these consequences include the weakening of the productive systems of these countries, their reduced specialization, the outflow of foreign currency, the reduction of revenue from customs duties and the consequent increase in budgetary difficulties. it is noted that in these countries, tax revenue is very low due to the high degree of informality in economic activity. the pressure to reduce wages and social rights, to attack the social functions of the state, to increase unemployment and poverty will thus increase. there will be an accelerated depletion and degradation of natural resources (particularly land and water) and the environment. the pressure to lower prices on production will increase, resulting in the disappearance of thousands of small farms and the concentration of land ownership. certain sectors and eu countries are also not immune from the negative consequences of this agreement.
in writing. − the association agreement between the european union (eu) and central america is an important step forward, as it is the first bi-regional association agreement concluded by the eu since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. as the first comprehensive partnership between regions, it should make a decisive contribution to the integration of central america and go far beyond free trade issues. political dialogue should therefore be the key element in the development of the bi-regional partnership. in addition, cooperation should also cover the areas of poverty reduction and social inclusion. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - using the mask of an association agreement, it is in reality a 'free trade' agreement which provides for reductions in customs duties and 'freedom of investment' for large capital. the consequences will be serious, particularly for the sovereignty and the right to development of the peoples of the countries of central america, whose economies are 150 times smaller than those of the eu. these include the destruction of the productive capacity of these countries, the outflow of foreign currency, the reduction in revenue from customs duties and the consequent increase in budgetary difficulties in countries whose tax revenue, due to the high degree of informality of economic activity, is very low. the pressure to reduce wages and social rights will increase, unemployment and poverty will increase. there will be accelerated destruction of natural resources (particularly land and water) and the environment, the establishment of monocultures that will destroy the food production capacity of those countries, making them more dependent. the pressure to lower prices on production will increase, resulting in the disappearance of thousands of small farms and the concentration of land ownership. in addition to economic interest, the eu also has a geostrategic interest in trying to create divisions in the processes of sovereign and solidarity-based integration of latin america, in particular alba.
in writing. - i approve this report which includes a safeguard clause and a stabilisation mechanism for bananas in the trade agreement with these countries, considering that for the first time it includes an obligation on the part of the commission to monitor the sustainability of the sector in the european market and to report regularly to the european parliament. i also welcome the fact that, for the first time too, a monitoring group has been set up by the european parliament to ensure that the reform guidelines are fully implemented in cooperation with the parliaments of colombia and peru, as i believe that despite progress in social and human rights in these countries, the situation is not yet perfect, which requires an active role for the european union in cooperation with the governments, trade unions and other representatives of civil society in both countries. in this respect, it is important to monitor the sustainability of the european banana sector affected by this agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the bilateral safeguard clause which provides for the possibility of re-establishing the most favoured nation tariff rate and with the stabilisation mechanism for bananas, under which the preferential tariff rate may be suspended if a certain annual volume of imports is reached.
in writing. - the proposal concerns the incorporation into european union law of the safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism provided for in the trade agreement with colombia and peru, for which i was rapporteur here in the european parliament. first of all, i would like to congratulate and thank rapporteur bernd lange and my party colleague and shadow rapporteur for this report, pablo zalba, for all the work they have done in seeking a consensual text which would at the same time protect the interests of european banana producers - almost exclusively located in the outermost regions of europe - which would not prevent the conclusion of the consent procedure for this agreement and which could be accepted by our latin american partners. this text was agreed in a trilogue, and it is the most clear compromise text, not only in terms of safeguards but also in terms of fulfilling socioeconomic and environmental criteria, as was the case in the text of the main agreement. it was this joint work here in the european parliament, with the commission and the council and with our partners in latin america that allowed the relatively quick conclusion of the consent process, which was predictably somewhat problematic at the outset.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas of the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement', as it includes provisions to ensure that the liberalisation process is carried out in a transparent manner, in accordance with the most important international labour and environmental conventions, so as to avoid penalising the most vulnerable sectors and regions. the provisions granting special treatment to the outermost regions should be emphasized, taking into account the likely negative impact that they may suffer at an early stage as a result of liberalisation.
in writing. - trade negotiations between the commission and the andean community countries have resulted in a trade agreement with colombia and peru. the agreement provides for the reduction and elimination of customs duties in bilateral trade between the partners. it also contains a safeguard clause under which tariff preferences may be suspended or removed if such trade liberalisation causes an unexpected increase in imports, thus harming the position of the european industry competing with those imports. i am particularly pleased that the safeguard for the outermost regions, i.e. the remote and vulnerable regions of the european union which are granted special treatment, has been included, taking into account the likely negative impact that they may suffer at an early stage as a result of liberalisation.
in writing. − trade relations between the european union (eu) and third countries, including emerging economies and young democracies, are key to consolidating a rule of law where eu values and principles are respected. the report by bernd lange focuses on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation implementing the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas in the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement. the agreement provides an excellent opportunity to deepen bilateral relations with a growth perspective for the region. it is a positive agreement which will lighten customs duties with a positive impact on european companies. i would like to highlight the inclusion of the stabilisation mechanism for bananas to be in force until 2019, which allows, annually, to suspend the preferences when a certain level of imports is reached, and the safeguard clause applied to producers in the outermost regions who are granted special treatment to mitigate the negative impact of liberalisation.
in writing. the compromise from the committee on international trade introduces amendments to try to offset the 'deeply negative' consequences that this agreement will bring for colombia and peru, but also for the eu countries. as we did in september, we reaffirm that in the banana sector the agreements anticipate the damage to european producers. losses affecting acp producers, in particular small and medium-sized producers. all for the benefit of the american multinationals that dominate world production. they therefore provide for a safeguard clause which, as experience has shown, will not prevent such damage. the opinion of parliament's committee on agriculture itself recognizes this. there are several weaknesses in this clause. with unacceptable hypocrisy and intolerable cynicism (for those who, after all, endorsed the agreement), it is proposed (as the commission has done) to extend the globalisation adjustment fund to these farmers, recognising the doom to ruin they have decreed. portugal and, in particular, the autonomous region of madeira, where banana production is of considerable importance, will also be affected.
in writing. − being constantly aware of this type of trade agreements, in this particular case between the eu and the andean community countries, for the negative effects they may have on european agriculture, i voted in favour of this report on the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas to the eu-colombia/peru trade agreement, as i consider them useful instruments to mitigate the potential disruptive effects on the eu market arising from these types of agreements. the bilateral safeguard clause provides a safety net in the context of trade liberalization involving several products and consists of the temporary repayment of normal customs duties or a suspension of further tariff liberalization (application for 2 years and exceptionally extended for a further 2 years); the stabilisation mechanism for bananas applies until 2019 and is activated when, in a given calendar year, the trigger volume (determined specific volume of imports) is reached, giving the eu the right to suspend preferential imports until the end of that year, albeit only for a period of 3 months.
in writing. the european parliament adopted a regulation today to implement the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas under the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru. in this context, the production and the economy of the outermost regions should not be affected by increased imports of bananas from third countries. the document aims to establish appropriate safeguard instruments to prevent significant damage to the union's banana crops, a sector with a significant weight in the agricultural production of many outermost regions, in accordance with article 349 tfeu. those safeguard measures should be established as soon as the product concerned, imported into the union, causes or threatens to cause injury to producers in the outermost regions of the union producing like or directly competing products. for the reasons i have given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. the compromise from the committee on international trade introduces amendments to try to offset the 'deeply negative' consequences that this agreement will bring for colombia and peru, but also for the eu countries. in the banana sector, the agreements anticipate the damage to european producers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the problem of the acp countries' small and mediumsized producers, and has also taken steps to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis. so they have a safeguard clause, which (experience shows) will not prevent these losses. the opinion of parliament's committee on agriculture itself recognizes this. there are several weaknesses in this clause. with unacceptable hypocrisy and intolerable cynicism (for those who, after all, endorsed the agreement), it is proposed (as the commission has done) to extend the globalisation adjustment fund to these farmers, recognising the doom to ruin they have decreed. portugal, and in particular the autonomous region of madeira, where banana production is of considerable importance, will also be affected.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that with this new agreement the european union will have gained a great deal of influence in both countries which have already brought hopes of improvements in society as a whole through economic growth and better human, labour and environmental standards. i think it is essential that guidelines be developed for countries to comply with with human rights, labour rights and environmental rights and i think that both governments should be expected to come forward with clear reforms to be introduced in a transparent manner before the entry into force of the agreement. in this area it is important to monitor the sustainability of the european sectors affected by these agreements.
in writing. the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, is part of a longstanding relationship between the union and the andean community (can). following the failed attempt to conclude an interregional association agreement in 2007, new negotiations were launched in january 2009, this time with colombia and peru only, and were successfully concluded in may 2010. although the agreement has an economic impact, resulting in significant economic benefits for both parties, it contains an implementing clause on human rights (article 1) and a title on sustainable development, which comprises the ilo's core labour standards, including freedom of association and the effective recognition of the right to collective bargaining and multilateral environmental agreements. the agreement itself can also be seen as a starting point for closer relations, particularly in the field of trade, with central and south america. i therefore support this recommendation.
in writing. − i consider it essential to eliminate high customs duties, tackle technical barriers to trade, liberalise services markets, protect valuable eu geographical indications (gis), open public procurement markets, include commitments to effectively enforce labour and environmental standards, and establish effective and rapid dispute resolution procedures, thus ensuring a level playing field with competitors in the region concerned, such as the united states. i voted in favour of this report for the reasons stated and also because i consider that the agreement is an opportunity for the eu to make a decisive contribution to the reforms in colombia and peru aimed at integrating them into the global economy and improving the well-being of their populations.
in writing. − this eu-colombia/peru trade agreement is part of a long-standing relationship between the union and the andean community, which started in 2007. however, negotiations with colombia and peru could only be concluded in an agreement signed on 26 june 2012, although there is an accession clause that allows other countries of the andean community to sign up. this agreement, which is not only economic, also covers human rights, a title on sustainable development covering basic labour standards and bilateral environmental agreements. it is a starting point for full customs liberalisation and closer trade relations between the eu and these countries. both peru and colombia have made significant efforts to ensure positive outcomes on human rights and democratic principles and, if the contrary is found, appropriate measures, including suspension of the agreement, may be possible. i therefore call for the conclusion of the agreement, which, in addition to the obvious commercial benefits, could be a crucial opportunity to carry out reforms in these countries, facilitating integration into the global economy, growth and welfare, in order to improve the living conditions of their populations.
in writing. − after several months of meetings, hearings, two official visits to peru and colombia, a previous resolution and an oral question to the commission, it was an immense satisfaction for me to see my report on the trade agreement between the european union and colombia and peru approved by a large majority of 72% of my colleagues! in this controversial dossier, it was the ‘non-trade aspects’ which were the main targets of all the parliamentary groups, of the ngos, the unions and even other institutions, like the european economic and social committee or the international labour organisation. due to this fact, i have presented, together with the rapporteur on the safeguards, bernd lange (s&d, de), a previous report to this consent recommendation, where we asked our partner countries for a road map on human and labour rights and environmental protection. in an unprecedented move, both governments from colombia and peru answered positively to our parliamentary requests, showing all of us who were still doubtful, how committed both governments and presidents santos and humala are to the fundamental values which are shared by our 29 countries! now it is the time for our peoples and economies to benefit from this agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this trade agreement for the gradual elimination of customs duties, without forgetting the binding obligations of colombia and peru for the implementation of labour and environmental clauses. contrary to what some have suggested, this agreement should increase the eu's responsibility and contribution to monitoring and monitoring human rights and social conditions in these two countries.
in writing. - i cannot but support the trade agreement with colombia and peru, countries whose language, history and culture are so close to those of the european union. these countries have made efforts towards democratization and respect for freedom and human rights, without renouncing the fight against those who seek to undermine democracy and the rule of law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. the recommendation under consideration, drawn up by mr david, concerns the draft council decision on the conclusion of the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part. although this agreement has been criticised for the absence of provisions to control financial flows which could allow money laundering from cocaine traffickers and for human rights violations, the truth is that these arguments have already been properly refuted. on friday, december 7, the inter-american commission on human rights removed colombia from its list of countries with human rights violations. the governments of colombia and peru have made a great effort to implement this agreement and are ready to continue to fight against human rights violations. the safeguard clauses in this report provide for its suspension in the event of non-compliance by third countries.
in writing. the rapporteur identifies in the explanatory statement the interests which will benefit from this agreement: the major european economic groups in industry and services. the export sectors of machinery, cars (and other transport equipment) and chemicals account for about 80% of eu trade with these two countries. the service groups - telecommunications, construction, distribution and financial services - are looking for the opportunity to colonize a market of millions. since the beginning of the negotiations, this agreement has been met with the strongest rejection. the initial aim was to reach an agreement with the andean community countries, but the negotiations were eventually restricted to colombia and peru, as ecuador and bolivia soon abandoned them, denouncing the eu's intentions to conclude a free trade agreement, which they contrasted with a trade vision for development. with this agreement, the eu's hypocrisy in human rights issues is once again demonstrated. a launching pad for countries that don't align with their interests, conveniently ignored when appropriate. this is now the case in colombia, where human rights violations are denounced by numerous social organizations, especially trade unions.
in writing. − while believing that the eu-peru/colombia trade agreement can have a positive impact on the eu/peru and eu/colombia relationship in a number of ways, i voted against for reasons of conscience, considering that the human rights situation in colombia - although some progress has been made since uribe left the presidency - still raises a lot of concern, with attacks and threats against activists, trade unionists and peasants, in part because of the continued impunity of the perpetrators of such violations. but since the european parliament has approved this agreement, i declare that i will work within the framework of the mechanism provided for in the agreement to monitor and encourage progress in the human rights and trade union situation in colombia in particular.
in writing. − the european commission has achieved the objectives of eliminating high customs duties, tackling technical barriers to trade, liberalising services markets, protecting valuable eu geographical indications (gis), opening public procurement markets, including commitments to effectively enforce labour and environmental standards, and providing effective and rapid dispute resolution procedures, thereby ensuring a level playing field with competitors in the region, such as the united states. for all these reasons, and in congratulating the rapporteur, my colleague mario david, i voted in favour of this report. i am particularly attentive to agreements of this kind because of the real risk of serious damage to certain portuguese productive sectors, in particular agriculture.
in writing. the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, is part of a longstanding relationship between the union and the andean community. the scope and ambition of the agreement are in line with eu policy on free trade agreements. the agreement eliminates virtually all customs duties after a transitional period and extends commitments on services far beyond the general agreement on trade and services (gats). it also includes provisions on non-customs barriers, such as technical barriers to trade and sanitary and phytosanitary measures. the agreement strengthens the protection of intellectual property rights while reflecting the needs of colombia and peru and includes institutional provisions such as dispute resolution, monitoring committees and a mechanism for the rapid examination of regulatory and non-customs barriers. it also contains an enforcement clause on human rights and a title on sustainable development, which comprises the core labour standards of the international labour organisation (ilo) and multilateral environmental agreements. for the reasons given, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - since the start of the negotiations, this agreement has been the subject of the most intense rejection. the initial aim was to reach an agreement with the andean community countries, but the negotiations were eventually restricted to colombia and peru, as ecuador and bolivia soon abandoned them, denouncing the eu's intentions to conclude a free trade agreement, which they contrasted with a trade vision for development. with this agreement, the eu's hypocrisy in human rights issues is once again demonstrated. a launching pad for countries that don't align with their interests, conveniently ignored when appropriate. this is now the case in colombia, one of the most dangerous countries in the world to be a trade unionist (in 2011 alone 35 trade unionists were murdered). it is the eu's policy of "two weights, two measures" in relation to human rights.
in writing. - i approve this report in view of the fact that the european population is getting older and that studies show that, because women live longer than men, they are more likely to have degenerative diseases than men of the same age: cardiovascular diseases, respiratory problems, cancer, muscular dystrophy and others. i therefore believe that this report is important in order to preserve the health of european women more and better. i agree that awareness campaigns, properly implemented diagnosis in cancer cases and more useful information on osteoporosis are some small steps that can easily be taken by all member states and the european union as a whole.
in writing. − the population of the european union is progressively ageing and the population over 65 years old is gender-disproportionate. there are 87 million european citizens in this age group, of whom 50.6 million are women. contrary to what one might think, and despite their longer life spans, older women have a significantly higher incidence of debilitating diseases. although women live longer than men, they do not live many more years of healthy life and are more subject to a deterioration in the quality of life. among the diseases that particularly affect older women are cardiovascular, respiratory, cancer, musculoskeletal disorders, degenerative diseases and depression. i therefore voted in favour of this report on the prevention of age-related diseases in women. prevention and information are the key words in this matter! it is important to promote healthy ageing for all through access to quality health care and preventive measures aimed at promoting good behaviours, which enable older people to remain independent for as long as possible.
in writing. − the population of the european union has been progressively ageing due to the decline in the birth rate and the increasing average life expectancy. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it of the utmost importance to promote healthy ageing for all through access to quality health care and preventive measures which enable older people to remain self-sufficient for as long as possible.
in writing. − given the increasingly pressing challenges to citizens' health and well-being, a new long-term strategic approach is needed that promotes health, protects citizens and contributes to sustainability. it is essential to promote solidarity and to combat health inequalities associated with socioeconomic and environmental factors. to enhance security by ensuring a rapid and coordinated response to global health threats and to strengthen the capacities of the union and its member states. promoting prosperity in order to ensure a competitive and sustainable future for europe, in particular with regard to the development of new ways of promoting health and predicting, preventing and treating disease. health is important for the well-being of people and society, but a healthy population is also a key condition for productivity and economic prosperity, so health expenditure should also be seen as an investment. the progressive ageing of the population (87 million europeans are over 65 years of age, of whom about 50.5 million are women) will lead to an increase in the demand for healthcare and, in parallel, to a decrease in the active population, so it is necessary to promote healthy and active ageing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that older women need specific support for access to health and home care and for the enjoyment of an independent and dignified life. i also believe it is essential to adapt medical treatment to take account of the biological specificities of gender.
in writing. - given that european society is ageing and that gender is a significant factor in ageing, with women's life expectancy being about six years longer than men's, the truth is that we will have more and more older women in our society with all the health implications that this entails. as the report tells us, diseases that particularly affect older women include cardiovascular, respiratory, cancer (which remains the leading cause of death among older women in the eu), diabetes, musculoskeletal disorders, degenerative diseases and depression. it is therefore important to promote health throughout life and to maintain prevention strategies for a range of pathologies that are associated with behavioural factors such as sedentary lifestyle, poor diet or smoking and to promote the right behaviours that should accompany healthy and active ageing.
in writing. - one of the great achievements of modern societies is the significant and growing increase in average life expectancy. the advances made by the medical scientific community in the discovery of new drugs and the improvement of the living conditions of the majority of the world's population are boosting longevity, an ageing that is intended to be healthy and autonomous for as long as possible. although women live a little longer than men, they have a significantly higher incidence of debilitating diseases such as fractures due to osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis, strokes, urinary incontinence, cancer, etc. i am not sure that the commissioner has been able to give us a clear answer to this question. we all recognise the role of women in world prosperity and their contribution to the increase in the gross domestic product of countries, but their domestic duties are not always properly valued. in old age, they are socially vulnerable and often suffer from psychological disturbances due to isolation.
in writing. the report addresses the need to prevent age-related diseases in women. in this as in other areas, the existence of a universal, quality and free public health service is imperative, guaranteeing all citizens (and therefore all women) access to health care and disease prevention. this is not properly addressed in the report. the fundamental importance of primary health care, prevention and early diagnosis is underlined as they lead to improved physical and mental health, which allows to increase the average healthy life expectancy and to reduce the costs of health care, ensuring its long-term sustainability. the path being followed is the opposite. the interventions of the troika - imf/ecb/ec - in different countries have led to a blind cut in public health services, with the deterioration of the health of citizens, which is reflected in the evolution of various statistical indicators. this is the case, reported this week, of the significant decrease in the number of consultations in portugal. we therefore denounce the tremendous contradiction: the commission's proposals are not only a good way of ensuring that the health of millions of people is protected, but also a way of encouraging economic and financial policies which are preventing this from happening.
in writing. − the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations during this year of 2012, to which i have paid particular attention by promoting several initiatives, aimed to promote healthy ageing for all through access to quality health care and preventive measures that allow older people to remain self-sufficient for as long as possible. in this context, because the elderly population is significantly more female than male and because there is a significantly higher incidence of debilitating diseases among elderly women, i voted in favour of this report which sets out measures to combat this reality.
in writing. − the report a7-0340/2012 has the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations as its background. the latest eurostat data show that there are some 87 million europeans over the age of 65, of whom 50.5 million are women. the rapid ageing of europe's population is partly due to the low birth rate. the rapporteur therefore points to the need for the eu institutions to cooperate with local and national partners in order to inform the public, especially women, about strategies for preventing age-related diseases and about what measures citizens should take to age actively. i believe that informing and promoting healthy lifestyles among europeans is one of the most important steps towards a better quality of life for them. in view of the foregoing, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − we agree with the rapporteur in her characterisation of the situation of women in the eu, particularly with regard to the subject of the report - the need to prevent age-related diseases in women. we stress the fundamental importance of primary health care, prevention and early diagnosis as we believe that they lead to improved physical and mental health of men and women, which allows to increase the average healthy life expectancy and reduce the costs of health care, ensuring its long-term sustainability. we believe that only a public health service can guarantee all citizens access to health care, including the prevention of age-related diseases in women. unfortunately, public health services are not mentioned once in this report. however, the implementation of the so-called austerity measures - which have the support of the majority of this parliament - has led to blind cuts in public services, particularly in the area of health. we denounce here this fundamental contradiction of the ep: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment as a whole.
in writing. − i approve this report, expressing my personal concern that microbial resistance is a vital challenge to public health in general, which is in turn aggravated by the decline in the development of new antimicrobials. with this in mind, i am in favour of concerted and assertive action, including legislative measures, to prevent the spread of microbial infections and to increase our resistance as humans to these elements. it is essential to stress that prudent use of antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine is extremely important to maintain the availability and efficacy of antimicrobials.
in writing. − since the discovery of penicillin, antimicrobials have been revolutionizing medical and veterinary practice, leading to significant reductions in mortality rates, while paving the way for the widespread use of innovative invasive surgeries. however, medical progress in the age of antibiotics is in danger of being jeopardized by the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance (amr). ram does not have a single, simple solution; a multifaceted approach is needed. the following are essential: - prudent use of antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine; - the need for effective measures to prevent the emergence and spread of drug resistance; - the development of new antimicrobials or alternative treatments; - the need for an exchange of best practice and better communication, education and training of therapists in the human and veterinary health sectors; - an international approach to this issue, as infectious diseases know no borders; - the need for accurate and timely data, which makes the existence of surveillance systems at european level necessary. for these reasons i have supported this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it imperative to: ensure the prudent use of antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine; take more effective measures to prevent the emergence and spread of drug resistance; encourage the development of new antimicrobial agents; create a european surveillance system; encourage the exchange of best practice and ensure better communication, education and training of therapists in human and veterinary health; address this issue at international level.
in writing. − over the past 80 years of widespread use, antimicrobial medicines have played an essential role in the treatment of many microbial infections in humans and animals. however, this situation is being seriously compromised by the emergence and spread at an astonishing rate of microbes resistant to these drugs, rendering them ineffective in the treatment of these infections. for example, in some countries, resistance rates for certain bacteria are already over 25 percent. although the development of drug resistance is a natural and unavoidable consequence of treatment, it is being seriously aggravated, not only because there is a considerable decline in the development of new antimicrobials, but also because of their excessive and indiscriminate use in human and veterinary medicine, coupled with poor hygiene and insufficient infection control. efforts are urgently needed to curb this growth by controlling the use of antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine and by seeking to maintain the efficacy of existing antimicrobials through their responsible use and at the correct therapeutic level, only when prescribed and strictly necessary, for a specified period of time. i therefore support this concerted and multifaceted approach which should ensure prudent use, promote prevention, focus on research and development and encourage cooperation and information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on 'the microbial challenge - the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance', because, given that infectious diseases know no borders, concerted and transversal measures are needed to ensure, in particular, the prudent use of antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine, the prevention of the emergence and spread of drug resistance, and the development of new antimicrobials or alternative treatments.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance refers to the inability of certain antimicrobial agents (antibiotics, for example) to act effectively on organisms (bacteria, viruses and other micro-organisms) that were previously sensitive to them, because they have developed resistance. antimicrobial resistance has become a public health threat in europe (and the rest of the world) as it results in longer and more complicated treatments and the risk of failure to respond with potentially fatal consequences (e.g. 25,000 people die in the eu every year from infections caused by resistant micro-organisms). this means that there is an urgent need for global action to prescribe and use antimicrobials more prudently, ensuring that these treatments are only followed when they are actually needed, and for the pharmaceutical industry to research and develop new antimicrobials as a way of treating patients infected with resistant micro-organisms.
in writing. − the report points to the ineffectiveness of the council's objectives on the prudent use of antimicrobial agents in human medicine. the aim is to commit member states to implementing recommendations that go beyond the commission's five-year strategic action plan. in particular, there is a need for better and more effective coordination between the human health sector and the veterinary sector. this is a pertinent question which needs to be studied and further developed, as the report also states. the consequences of the prophylactic use of antibiotics in livestock should be better understood by investigating their relationship to the emergence of resistance in humans. a comprehensive response from health systems to the problem of antimicrobial resistance is required, including a range of preventive practices, both at the primary healthcare and hospital levels. this will only be possible in the context of public health services. there is also a need to strengthen public r & d in this area. the report is generally positive in its many recommendations and warnings, but this is one of the weak points of the report, which prefers to focus on the development of public-private partnerships.
in writing. - unfortunately, an amendment has been introduced to article 28 which seeks to classify 'medicinal foods' for animal use as 'pharmaceuticals', with the express purpose of monitoring them, via pharmaceutical legislation and their official inspections, and ensuring that their use falls within the 'prescription only' category. these medicated feeds are based on medicated premixtures, which are subject to authorisation by the veterinary regulatory authorities and which are classified and approved as veterinary pharmaceutical products (article 2 of directive 2011/82/eu, as amended by directive 2004/28/ec). all veterinary pharmaceutical products, including medicated premixtures for medicated feedingstuffs, are included in the category 'presciption only' and require a veterinary prescription for their administration to animals. medicated feed is only a channel for the administration of veterinary medicinal products, like drinking water. thus, amendment 82 (to article 28) in seeking to classify the medicinal food as a pharmaceutical product has relevant implications which may be incompatible with various legal instruments, considering that all constituents of the medicinal food, namely cereals (corn, wheat, barley, soybeans, etc.) may be included in the parameters and requirements necessary for pharmaceutical products, which is obviously unenforceable. that is why i voted against this amendment.
in writing. - according to data provided by the european commission, 25,000 people die every year due to the growing resistance of microbes to antimicrobial treatments. in addition to the number of lives lost, there is an additional cost of 1.5 billion euros. the growing resistance to antimicrobial treatments is due to the use of antimicrobials in cases where the disease is not clearly identifiable and to the fact that treatment is stopped prematurely. these situations occur, according to the european commission, in medicine and veterinary medicine. there is therefore a need to prohibit the online sale of antimicrobials, to separate the right to prescribe from the right to sell in the case of veterinary medicine and to improve access to information on their correct use. the report by anna rosbach, mep, contains important measures that must be implemented as soon as possible to prevent and combat the threat of growing antimicrobial resistance to public health. in view of the foregoing, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. − the report points to the ineffectiveness of the council's objectives on the prudent use of antimicrobial agents in human medicine. the aim is to commit member states to implementing recommendations, calling in particular for better and more effective coordination between the human and veterinary health sectors. the consequences of the prophylactic use of antibiotics in livestock should be better understood by investigating their relationship to the emergence of resistance in humans. a comprehensive response from health systems to the problem of antimicrobial resistance is required, including a range of preventive practices, both at the primary healthcare and hospital levels. this will only be possible in the context of public management of health services and not in the development of public-private partnerships, as the report argues.
for the fourth year in a row, mr president, the european budget falls far short of the real needs in terms of job creation, research, education, social integration and territorial cohesion, and development aid to third countries. for the fourth year in a row, governments, the commission and this parliament are playing pretend. for them, there is no recession, no unemployment, no precariousness or poverty, but by 2013 the consequences will be dramatic. even with one more country, croatia, you get the extraordinary feat of having a payment level below 2012. there is talk of more europe, but to do that, more money was needed for support for job creation, cohesion funds and solidarity policies and less money for security policies. we are talking about solidarity, but this budget only increases the divergence. we are in the record of a minimal europe which rejects its distributive role. lash in the countries and lash in europe. the governments of this europe are pursuing the delusion of austerity and this budget reinforces it, so we will vote against it.
mr president, this budgetary debate makes clear the role of the european parliament in this process. first, he makes the usual living test, giving the council and its positions, almost never going to the essential, staying with the accessory. in a second, he is ready to accept, without blushing, what he once said was unacceptable. it is a sad role, but it is a role which the right wing and the social democrats have voluntarily chosen to play in this parliament. we reaffirm here what we have said before: this budget proposal for 2013 is shameful, unacceptable, and in flagrant contradiction to the discourse of solidarity, with all the propaganda around growth and cohesion. as for the amending budget for 2012, some eur 3 billion in payments due to the member states are missing, which they now decide to carry over to 2013, certainly creating an even bigger problem than the one we are facing this year. there's no point in them coming back and blaming the council. those who support this budget will also be responsible for what happens.
in writing. – budget negotiations remain trapped in the logic of national politics and parochial interests, which have thus far prevented the eu from asserting the progressive, pivotal role it ought to have. this has always produced sub-optimal outcomes, and has prevented a real convergence in welfare, living standards and the enjoyment of liberties for the entire eu population. to vote in favour is to effectively approve of the arid controversies between the governments of the most influential eu member states, and to provide a patina of legitimacy to a manifestly ineffective modus operandi. conversely to vote against is to obstinately refuse to accept the benign role the eu can and must have. hence my decision to abstain from voting the parliament's resolution signals my disproval of the self-restraining praxis of present budget negotiations. furthermore it states my profound belief that the budget can and must be far more ambitious, to allow the eu to operate in a systematic manner in elevating the living conditions of all of its people and in developing all these regions or countries that are in most need of genuine support, rather than providing them with mere handouts that get lost in the daedal canals of existing bureaucracy.
the impact of liberalization is exemplified by the handling services: redundancies, the admission of new workers with lower wages, wages that have developed below inflation, more insecure jobs, more temporary contracts, a decline in the level of skills and training, and a consequent deterioration in the quality of the services provided. that's the beauty of free competition. the commission is aware of all this, it is clear from its studies and reports. what are you going to do? correct you? crawling your way? no, deepen the liberalization of the market. the workers are warned: capital's thirst for profit knows no bounds, its servants will do anything to intensify exploitation more and more. the notice also states for the passengers: these workers depend on their safety. the answer to your proposal, commissioner, is out there, in the workers who are fighting on the doorstep of this parliament. (the president cut the speaker off)
for the gue/ngl group what we have here is an agreement that can finally put into practice and move forward with the taxation of the financial sector. i must say that i think the vote on this proposal is 30 years late, but better late than never. we voted here in may on the political proposal and i hope that tomorrow we can vote in favour of 11 countries starting to implement this measure. this tax is of the most elementary justice: finance capital has to pay. we are not talking about an overpayment, as has been demanded of european citizens, but about a residual payment. we are not even talking about a payment that is paid, for example, in everyday transactions. imagine: a family in portugal, who wants to do christmas shopping for their dinner, if they go to buy olive oil, cod, other things, will pay for every 100 euros invested, at least 6 euros in tax. a speculator in the financial markets, if he invests that same 100 euros, will pay, with this tax, about 10 cents or even 1 cent. so we are talking about at least 60 times less than what any ordinary citizen pays for basic necessities. that's why i think it's so important to ask the question: how is it that after we all know the impact of the crisis, there are still 16 countries that think that taxing the financial sector at 0.1 or 0.01% is an abuse? how can you ask so many sacrifices from people who have almost nothing and still think you can't touch the financial markets? we know very well that this rate does not solve the problem of speculation, we know that there are many securities which remain out of the transaction, but we also know that this rate can generate extra resources and that these resources should be used to reach the most disadvantaged sectors of the european population. that is the challenge which is also left to the countries which are going to put forward this proposal which we are seeking to adopt here tomorrow.
during this discussion it is clear that the formal requirements for moving forward with enhanced cooperation in the tax field are met for this case. however, more than the form, much of the substance remains to be discussed. an impact study on this measure is yet to be discussed in relation to the results. the proposal which may regulate this same matter remains to be seen. only then will it be possible to answer questions such as: what is the result of this measure in relation to growth, what is the result of this measure in disciplining the financial markets, what are the real costs for those who use financial instruments, what are the administrative costs of collecting this tax? all of these are matters about which, at this very moment, we know nothing. we also know nothing about the effects of this approval. will the approval of enhanced cooperation, involving some of the european union states, have any effect on the possibility of having this solution of a global financial transaction tax? these are the questions that are shaping much of this debate, and these are the questions that will shape this debate for the time to come.
the european union's own resources system is particularly relevant at a time when national public budgets are under severe pressure and at the same time the need to really strengthen the eu budget is being stressed in order to better respond to the crisis. a new system of own resources must achieve a stronger and more democratic link between citizens, economic operators and the eu budget. it should be tax neutral, in that citizens do not have to pay any more taxes because of the very existence of the european union itself. progress in enhanced cooperation for this type of taxation of financial transactions is an important first step, and it is extremely positive because it generates considerable revenue and is socially fair. in this area too, we must examine the possibility of further own resources solutions, such as a new resource based on vat or the application of a green tax, always applied in a socially fair way, taking into account in particular the most vulnerable citizens.
mr president, commissioner, i would first like to thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for the effort they have put into this document and in seeking a balanced position between the conflicting interests. on the one hand, the welfare of animals themselves and the duties of humans to provide conditions of life without suffering for animals. on the other hand, the interests of producers and traders in animals in the profitability of their economic activity. i think that a balanced position has been reached, except that due account has been taken of the constraints which the maximum eight-hour transport period places on peripheral countries such as portugal, which are further away from the destination of the animals, with the obligation to make more stops and therefore with higher costs. in this case, the productive activity is heavily penalized and discriminated against in relation to other member states. even more serious is the attempt by some colleagues to abolish the exception to the minimum eight-hour transport period for the outermost regions, which was approved in the com agri. such a measure would absolutely prevent the transport of live animals from these regions to the mainland, which is a further discrimination, since the interruption of transport by sea is obviously impractical. the outermost regions are already suffering from severe natural constraints which cannot be aggravated by unwarranted decisions or by a mere lack of knowledge of the geography of the european union.
mr president, commissioner, the protection and welfare of animals is a civilization issue in european society today. it is therefore our duty as politicians to turn the way our societies feel into guidelines. we must do this by ensuring that the conditions necessary for the transport of animals are guaranteed, that the transport equipment is certified, that the various levels involved, from producers to organisers, transporters and veterinary authorities, are held accountable and monitored in accordance with the guidelines we have set out. however, while safeguarding these conditions, we must not fail to take scientific advice into account and also take account of certain conditions, particularly geographical ones, which peripheral and outermost regions represent and which are incompatible with the introduction of the eight-hour time limit. parliament must use its common sense, mr president, in exempting these regions in this report from this time-barrier, which is impractical in their case.
in writing. we note that despite the progress made in animal welfare in the european union, serious problems persist which warrant changes to community legislation, in particular as regards the transport of animals. this is also the view of more than a million european citizens who, through a petition, are calling for the maximum journey time for animals for slaughter to be limited to eight hours. we think that the commission should come forward with a legislative proposal to ensure the highest standards of animal welfare and introduce a maximum period for transporting animals. however, account should be taken of the exceptional geographical conditions of the outermost regions, which are in some cases incompatible with the 8-hour time limit.
mr president, human rights and fundamental freedoms are a set of values and principles which distinguish us as human beings, they are universal, indivisible and interdependent. the promotion of these rights should be an overarching objective of all european union policies. we have the right to demand that others respect these rights and we have the duty to set an example. this parliament is therefore considering two reports. one that looks at the respect for human rights in the rest of the world, and this one, where we look at what's happening on the territory of the european union. as part of the strategy for the effective implementation of the charter of fundamental rights, as already mentioned by vice-president reding, two reports have already been submitted assessing the progress made in its implementation. significant progress has been made, but much remains to be done to close the gap between fundamental rights and their implementation, which not only undermines the promotion and impact of these rights but also undermines the credibility of the european union. it is also important to improve information so that citizens know when the charter is being applied and recognise the remedies available to them in the event of a breach. i support the commission's proposal to set up a permanent evaluation panel on justice, the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights. i welcome many of the recommendations contained in the beňová report. i would stress, however, that the enhancement of this common heritage must require all of us to focus on what is common and not to disregard the principle of subsidiarity. there are matters in the report which depend solely on the legitimate sovereign will of each member state. we must not use human rights for partisan political agendas or to overemphasize any differences. doing so only degrades the highest value we should all want to uphold.
mr president, it is important to have a medium-term and future vision for monetary union and for european union. but, regarding the blueprint, i will not repeat here what hannes swoboda has already said. i shall concentrate on one subject, on which there may be results at the next european council, namely the banking union. and i begin by regretting that the effort made in this parliament to reach a conclusion with record speed has not been followed up by the council, where national interests overlap with european interests in an increasingly shocking way. there are balances in this ongoing negotiating process that are worth safeguarding. firstly, it is clear that the supervision of all euro area banks by the european central bank is fundamental. the european central bank has the power and credibility to do so. but it is important that the division of functions between the central bank and the national supervisors does not in practice, in the eyes of the public, lead to a separation of banks, between first-class banks which, being the most dangerous, the most risky in the system, appear to be supervised at central level and implicitly guaranteed at european level, leaving those supervised at local level to be second-class, although in practice these are probably the most prudent. the creation of national delegations of the european central bank alongside and in protocol with the national supervisors could be an important aspect to explore. the second question concerns the deposits. depositors do not receive additional remuneration when banks are profitable, so they cannot also lose their savings when the bank is in trouble. a strong and single supervision of all banks at the level of the european union, or at least of monetary union, must be accompanied by a strong and joint guarantee of deposits. it is regrettable that the process has been stalled in the council for over a year. i would end by stressing only two or three points: one of them is that we must remember that credit is still not reaching businesses and that banks are the key factor in providing this credit, especially in countries where the recovery of the real economy is more important. i would just like to say, mr president, that fraud and tax evasion make all the sacrifices made by citizens structurally unfair, but we must quickly turn words into action.
madam president, could mr barroso explain why the troika overseeing the adjustment programme in portugal does not say a word as it sees the portuguese government legalise tax evasion, tax fraud and money laundering by individuals, corporations and banks, who are identified stacking more than eur 4 billion in switzerland alone, by allowing them to pay an indecently low tax of 7.5 % and not having to repatriate the assets, not having to disclose the possible criminal origin of such assets and, on top of all, outrageously guaranteeing them the protection of secrecy? where is the justice, the equality, the fairness, of which president barroso talked today but which european citizens, suffering with unemployment and poverty as a result of the crisis, do not at all see the eu put into action?
the european council's agenda includes the deepening of emu. the proposal put forward by the european commission to this end includes, among other things, the single banking supervisory mechanism and the creation of the new 'convergence and competitiveness instrument' to provide financial support for the implementation of the 'structural reforms' contracted between the eu and the member states. as far as banking supervision is concerned, it is accepted that a supranational body can terminate national banking institutions. in other words, we will have processes of merger/concentration of financial capital which are directly determined and organized by supranational institutions controlled, as we know, by this same financial capital. it is another giant step in the assault on the sovereignty of states and the intolerable subjugation of political power to economic and financial power. the new financial instrument (for convergence and competitiveness) will probably open the door for cohesion funds, which are now cutting into the budget, to be used to finance redundancies/measures to make labour market more flexible, liberalization of new sectors, so-called 'structural reforms' or perhaps to cover the costs of debt servicing. the commission's proposal is to be seen as a step in the right direction, and it is not a step in the right direction.
over the last few years, a number of measures have been taken to deepen european integration, such as the creation of the euro, the strengthening of the internal market and new solidarity mechanisms. however, i believe that the process of european integration must be deepened, and that it must be accompanied by an increasing economic, banking and financial union. i hope that the council meeting will finally move forward with the proposal for a banking union with the european central bank to supervise all banking institutions, regardless of their geographical location or relevance to the economy. europe must strengthen its internal project and promote greater integration at political and economic level, investing increasingly in the development of the regions and in improving the quality of life of the people.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering that draft amending budget no 6/2012 of the general budget for 2012 includes, in particular, an update of the revenue forecast following the latest revision of the own resources and other revenue forecasts and an increase of almost eur 9,0 billion in payment appropriations under heading 1a, 1b, 3a and 4 of the multiannual financial framework, with the aim of financing needs until the end of the year. i would remind you that in support of my position, the budgetary authority recognises that eur 2.9 billion of additional payment appropriations should have been authorised in 2012 to finance the payment requests received by the commission, which is an integral part of the agreement reached during the trilogue.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider that draft amending budget no 6/2012, as amended by the council, reflects the agreement reached at the budgetary trilogue on 29 november 2012.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on 'draft amending budget no 6/2012' because it will allow the release of eur 6 billion to cover part of payments for 2012. it is important to ensure that the remaining bills are paid as soon as possible, in line with the interinstitutional commitment that provides for additional funds to be added during 2013 to pay the outstanding 2012 accounts and to cover the difference between the agreed level of payments and the estimated needs, in particular in the areas of education, cohesion policies and rural development.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 6/2012 of the general budget for 2012 comprises, inter alia, an update of the revenue forecast following the latest revision of the own resources and other revenue forecasts and an increase of almost eur 9,0 billion in payment appropriations under heading nos 1a, 1b, 3a and 4 of the multiannual financial framework, with the aim of financing needs until the end of the year. i support the decision of the trilogues to approve the draft amending budget presented by the commission and as amended by the council.
in writing. - we all know that a budget always contains a forecast of revenue and expenditure which is subject to change during its implementation. however, it is essential to be vigilant as revenue develops so that commitments are not made on the expenditure side which cannot be covered by revenue. when we approved the 2012 budget, we already knew that the payment appropriations were not enough. without the adoption of this amending budget, commitments already entered into and expenditure already invoiced, amounting to eur 9 billion, would not be paid. this included some of the eu's most successful policies, such as the erasmus programmes, lifelong learning, and research programmes. i welcome the fact that it has been possible to reach an agreement between the institutions to avoid a large part of the financial responsibilities being left unaddressed, which would be a blow to the eu's credibility. but i regret that the payment of eur 2.9 billion under cohesion policy has been delayed.
in writing. − the european parliament's (ep) approval of amending budget no 6/2012 of the european union is part of the package agreed between the majority of the ep, the commission and the council for the 2013 budget. the ep's initial concerns about the lack of funds to cover the debts incurred in various programmes were justified, but they were not translated into coherent and consistent action. on the contrary, i did. by resolving some of the immediate problems relating to outstanding payments, it does not resolve all of them and deepens the confusion regarding the 2013 budget. postponing part of the payments (more precisely, €2.9 billion) is an unacceptable move that only serves the interests of the wealthier countries - and the ones that benefit most from the eu's internal market, the euro and the priorities financed by the eu budget - to reduce their contributions immediately, and is part of the old and recurrent attempt to press for a reduction in their future contribution. portugal is one of the creditor countries, and is due to pay tens of millions of euros in 2012 expenditure. the ep majority not only expresses the interest of the wealthier countries, but also feeds the proposal for a future eu budget partly financed (at first) by european taxes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amending budget no 6 for 2012 because it makes it possible to at least partially resolve the more than eur 9 billion in payments due to the member states in the european cohesion, social and regional development funds. it is regrettable that, in view of the dramatic social, economic and financial difficulties experienced in certain member states, the european council has refused to make the funds necessary for the commission to make payments to the member states, namely for programmes aimed at promoting growth and employment. it is regrettable that the governments of this europe are indulging in delaying manoeuvres and have insisted on the suspension and extension, for next year, of the payment of the almost 3 billion euros due for 2012. the agreement provides, however, that this eur 3 billion will have to be paid in the coming months, without being withdrawn from the 2013 budget, i.e. as additional resources.
in writing. - the adoption of this amending budget safeguards the payments already agreed and for which the appropriations were not yet available. despite the approval of these six billion euros, there may still be a lack of funds for scheduled payments. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
in writing. − the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012 was finally adopted on 1 december 2011. an updating of the revenue forecast following the latest revision of the own resources and other revenue forecasts and an increase of almost eur 9.0 billion in payment appropriations under heading 1a, 1b, 3a and 4 of the multiannual financial framework, with the aim of financing needs until the end of the year, require an amending budget which i voted in favour of.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amending budget no 6 for 2012 because it makes it possible to at least partially resolve the more than eur 9 billion in payments due to the member states in the european cohesion, social and regional development funds. it is regrettable that, in view of the dramatic social, economic and financial difficulties experienced in certain member states, the european council has refused to make the funds necessary for the commission to make payments to the member states, namely for programmes aimed at promoting growth and employment. it is regrettable that the governments of this europe are indulging in delaying manoeuvres and have insisted on the suspension and extension, for next year, of the payment of the almost 3 billion euros due for 2012. the agreement provides, however, that this eur 3 billion will have to be paid in the coming months, without being withdrawn from the 2013 budget, i.e. as additional resources.
in writing. − the european commission's proposal for the overall eu budget for 2012 was €132.7 billion. however, the final budget, agreed between the member states and the european parliament, was €129.1 billion. this was because during the negotiations on the european budget for 2012, the council decided to reduce payment commitments by eur 3 billion, and also committed to unlock the necessary funds if necessary. during the year, the council and the european commission approved numerous projects in different areas such as the projects of the qren, the common agricultural policy, the fisheries, research and innovation fund (fp7) or the erasmus programme. it happens that all these projects developed by the beneficiaries (regions, cities, ipss, smes, large companies or universities) during the current year are currently at risk of not being financed, even though they have already been approved and are being developed. although i believe that the european budget should be increased in its entirety (eur 9 billion) because of commitments already made and these should not be carried over to 2013, i voted in favour of the report authorising an increase of eur 6 billion.
in writing. − the european parliament's (ep) approval of amending budget no 6/2012 of the european union is part of the package agreed between the majority of the ep, the commission and the council for the 2013 budget. the ep's initial concerns about the lack of funds to cover the debts incurred in various programmes were justified, but they were not translated into coherent and consistent action. on the contrary, i did. by resolving some of the immediate problems relating to outstanding payments, it does not resolve all of them and deepens the confusion regarding the 2013 budget. the postponement of part of the payments (more precisely, eur 2.9 billion) is an unacceptable manoeuvre which serves only the interests of the richer countries to reduce their contributions immediately. portugal is one of the creditor countries, and is due to pay tens of millions of euros in 2012 expenditure. the majority in the ep not only expresses the interest of the wealthier countries, but also feeds the proposal for a future eu budget partly financed by european taxes, an option we oppose because it weakens the redistributive function that the budget should have.
in writing. - the situation in countries like portugal requires urgent and compensatory measures which are not covered by this eu budget. it calls for an increase in the eu budget to support economic and social cohesion - at least a doubling of the current level - and a major change in its distribution. it calls for an increase in contributions from countries with higher gni and higher per capita income, by changing the current distribution of contributions and by enhancing the redistributive function of the budget. it called for increased funding for the cohesion fund and the structural funds, with particular attention to employment with rights, equal rights and opportunities and the fight against poverty. it called for increased support for countries, particularly those already facing economic recession, to invest in domestic production and its diversification, in maintaining and creating jobs (with rights), in infrastructure (in particular in the productive sector), in social facilities, in research, in the environment, in innovation and in development. demand an end to military spending. it calls for radical changes in the cap and the cfp to increase and diversify production in countries like portugal, reducing its external dependence and guaranteeing its food sovereignty.
in writing. - the situation in countries such as portugal requires an increase in the eu budget to support economic and social cohesion - at least a doubling of the current level - and a major change in its distribution. it calls for an increase in contributions from countries with higher gni and higher per capita income, by changing the current distribution of contributions and by enhancing the redistributive function of the budget. it called for increased funding for the cohesion fund and the structural funds, with particular attention to employment with rights, equal rights and opportunities and the fight against poverty. it called for increased support for countries, particularly those already facing economic recession, to invest in domestic production and its diversification, in maintaining and creating jobs (with rights), in infrastructure (in particular in the productive sector), in social facilities, in research, in the environment, in innovation and in development.
in writing. - i approve this report. firstly, welcoming the agreed overall level of appropriations, which represents an increase of eur 1.1 billion over the original council proposal, and the fact that a large part of its political priorities are secured in the budget for the next financial year, with a particular emphasis on the proper implementation of the union's commitment to growth and jobs as set out in the europe 2020 strategy. however, i regret that the overall level of payment appropriations agreed for 2013 is cut by 2.15% compared to the 2012 budget, which i find regrettable at a time of severe financial and economic crisis and when a significant part of the european population is being targeted by strong economic austerity measures, which is why the commitment to growth and jobs is vital to tackle today's biggest challenges and for the european union as a whole to resume economic growth.
in writing. - i voted in favour of agreeing overall to the agreement reached in the negotiations on the budget of the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the 'general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013', as i considered that the compromise reached with the council, although it falls short of what is considered necessary, makes it possible to avoid a budgetary crisis overcoming the economic crisis europe is going through. the 2013 budget should further the policy objectives set and address the challenges of job creation and growth. to underline the interinstitutional commitment to actively monitor the use of the funds over the next year and, if necessary, to propose and adopt an amending budget to address the anticipated shortfall.
in writing. − taking due account of the union's current financial, economic and social situation, there is a growing need for the institutions to respond with responsibility and restraint to the demands of the very serious situation we are facing and to use rigorous budgetary management processes to achieve savings. the commission has also taken the view that the budgetary procedure should be extended to cover the expenditure of the european parliament and the council. but the eu cannot equally turn its back on the need to support and boost growth and employment policies, which are so necessary for the economic recovery of european countries and for their exit from the crisis. parliament should uphold the principle of legislative excellence, respect the principles of good governance and transparency and strive for a spirit of budgetary responsibility.
in writing. − i would like to start by congratulating myself on the fact that it was possible to approve the draft budget of the european union (eu) for 2013 during the course of 2012, in order to avoid the eu institutions starting a new year without a budget. this was the deal that was possible. however, it regrets that the council has once again failed to provide the necessary funds for the commitments it has made. this means that we will unfortunately need amending budgets in 2013. the mff is coming to an end and it is natural that european programmes and funds should be implemented at a faster pace. the council wanted the money not to be invested, the programmes not to be implemented, in other words, to bet on the failure of the programmes which the council itself defends and promotes. the same council that backed a €120 billion pact for growth and jobs in june this year and quickly put it in the drawer, is not willing to put enough money in the 2013 budget for payments. this is bad practice on the part of the council, it shows a lack of budgetary rigor, it leads to unnecessary institutional conflicts, and it undermines the credibility of all the eu institutions.
in writing. − the adoption of the european parliament's position on the eu budget for 2013 and the completion of the budgetary procedure that will follow was more than expected. the majority of the ep has been an active participant in the traditional institutional game in which the initial disagreements eventually fade and the three institutions (ep, commission and council) and the political forces that dominate them agree on the fundamental: to reduce the eu budget, consolidating a path that is flagrantly contradictory to the discourse of solidarity and all the propaganda around 'growth' and 'cohesion'. the figures and the rules applicable to many of the programmes, particularly at the level of co-financing, are clearly out of line with the emergency situation in which countries such as portugal find themselves in this period of profound economic and social crisis. the eu budget is reduced by 2.15% (in payments) compared with 2012, amounting to 0.99% of community gni, confirming the downward trend and the compromise of any prospect of economic and social cohesion. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
in writing. - i voted against the 2013 european budget because i consider it unacceptable that, for the fourth year in a row, the european parliament is following the dictates of the governments of europe and is allowing the european council to intensify its austerity and recessionary logic. it is unacceptable that on the same day as the adoption of an amending budget of eur 6 billion, the payment of more than eur 3 billion, which is still outstanding in 2012, is deferred to meet the financing needs of the cohesion programmes, the european social fund and the regional development fund; i would like to ask the commissioner whether he will approve a budget for 2013 which has a real cut of 1.65% compared with 2012, if we take into account the six amending budgets. it is putting at risk the existence of social programmes, those promoting investment and employment, and reducing investment in research programmes, lifelong learning, erasmus and development aid.
in writing. - we approve this budget, which represents 0.99% of eu gdp. despite several efforts to get a budget of higher value approved, in view of the crisis we are going through, it has not been possible to achieve this. this budget provides for more money for growth and jobs, with money under the competitiveness heading increasing by 4,8% compared to 2012 (in commitments). the money is mainly allocated to the seventh framework programme for research (6.4% increase), the trans-european networks (6.3% increase) and the competitiveness and innovation framework programme (9.6% increase). although not the ideal budget, an effort was made by all to adopt a document that could contribute to the achievement of the eu 2020 objectives.
in writing. − the european parliament made its vote in favour of the 2013 budget conditional on obtaining specific guarantees at the highest political level of the three institutions for the financing of the outstanding payments in 2012 in the amount of eur 2.9 billion, without in any event implying a reduction in payment appropriations in 2013. it is the duty of the european parliament to fight so that the union can continue to provide the much needed investment that the member states need for the desired economic recovery. i therefore voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − budget negotiations remain trapped in the logic of national politics and parochial interests, which have thus far prevented the eu from asserting the progressive, pivotal role it ought to have. this has always produced sub-optimal outcomes, and has prevented a real convergence in welfare, living standards and the enjoyment of liberties for the entire eu population. to vote in favour is to effectively approve of the arid controversies between the governments of the most influential eu member states, and to provide a patina of legitimacy to a manifestly ineffective modus operandi. conversely to vote against is to obstinately refuse to accept the benign role the eu can and must have. hence my decision to abstain from voting the parliament’s resolution signals my disproval of the self-restraining praxis of present budget negotiations. furthermore it states my profound belief that the budget can and must be far more ambitious, to allow the eu to operate in a systematic manner in elevating the living conditions of all of its people and in developing all these regions or countries that are in most need of genuine support, rather than providing them with mere handouts that get lost in the daedal canals of existing bureaucracy.
in writing. − following difficult budgetary negotiations between the european parliament and the council, it was possible to adopt a common draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013. i welcome the increase of 1.1 billion in commitment appropriations over the council's original reading, thus ensuring that the political priorities of this house are guaranteed in the budget for next year. however, the council has been inflexible on the amounts of payment appropriations. parliament felt that failure to agree on the amounts to be paid would jeopardise the union's programmes and was forced to adopt the council's position on the heading mentioned above. i join the rapporteur in urging the commission to report to parliament on the progress of payment requests, since the amounts proposed by the council for these appropriations are lower than the commission's estimate. in view of the above and given the importance of the eu having a budget for next year, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the adoption of the european parliament's position on the eu budget for 2013 and the completion of the budgetary procedure that will follow was more than expected. the majority of the ep has been an active participant in the traditional institutional game in which the initial disagreements eventually fade and the three institutions (ep, commission and council) and the political forces that dominate them agree on the fundamental: to reduce the eu budget, consolidating a path that is flagrantly contradictory to the discourse of solidarity and all the propaganda around 'growth' and 'cohesion'. the eu budget is reduced by 2.15% (in payments) compared with 2012, amounting to 0.99% of community gni, confirming the downward trend and the compromise of any prospect of economic and social cohesion. the ep is clearly complicit in the strategy which leads to the deepening of social and inter-country disparities, rampant unemployment and the huge increase in poverty in the eu.
in writing. - i approve this report, since it has been shown that there is a link between redundancies and the world economic and financial crisis, and since the two-wheeler industry in europe is facing an unfavourable environment also due to the growth in exports of bicycles and motorcycles by producers in asia, currently the world's largest producer. in view of all these factors, and also of the fact that we cannot forget that italy is going through a period of economic restructuring with severe economic austerity measures, all possible support to this country is therefore needed in this respect. in addition, the increasing lack of competitiveness of the european economy leads me to believe that the need for an effective policy initiative towards growth and jobs must be given even greater focus.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report concerning the mobilisation of eur 2 658 495 from the egf for italy to support the 502 potential beneficiaries of the 512 workers made redundant in ten enterprises (manufacture of other transport equipment) in the emilia-romagna region of italy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because italy's application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund meets the requirements for determining financial contributions laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in favour of the mobilisation of eur 2 658 495 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for italy. this amount will have to be applied effectively if it is to make a significant contribution to the reintegration into the labour market of the 512 workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation.
in writing. - italian motorcycle manufacturers - the largest in europe - have also been hit hard by globalisation and the economic and financial crisis and have had difficulty withstanding competition from manufacturers from other parts of the world, in particular the decline in the price of these vehicles and the lower demand for them at european level. the present application concerns manufacturers in the emilia-romagna region and workers made redundant as a result of the difficulties they are experiencing. i hope that this italian industry can recover and that the workers now laid off can soon find work that also benefits their communities. the image of italy that we have of it ideally and generally does not exempt the circulation of motorcycles of national manufacture in its cities. this may be an oversimplification, but it is intended to show how closely these vehicles are linked to the history and representation of the italian way of life.
in writing. - the present report by mr frédéric daerden on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application feg/2011/026 it/emilia-romagna motorcycles, italy). on 19 october 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis, following the abovementioned application submitted on 30 december 2011. this is the 15th application under the 2012 eu budget, and it is intended to mitigate the social impact of the dismissal of 512 workers from ten transport equipment manufacturing companies. as the egf, set up in 2006, aims to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns brought about by globalisation, i am voting in favour of this proposal for a decision.
in writing. - there will be seven calls for mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund to be voted on at this plenary session. seven libels against the eu and its policies, which continue to sow unemployment across europe. this application concerns 512 workers made redundant by ten companies in the transport equipment manufacturing sector in northern italy. the commission is proposing to mobilise eur 2 6508 495 to assist these workers, who have been made redundant in the wake of major structural changes in world trade patterns and the global economic and financial crisis. these redundancies occurred in the emilia-romagna region of italy, where the unemployment rate over the last five years has varied as follows: men goes from 1.48% to 5.68%, women goes from 3.45% to 7.37%. this fund is a necessary but insufficient palliative. we must attack the root of the problem: by breaking with the neoliberal policies that are leading us into the abyss and denying millions of workers the right to work and to a decent life.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to italy which has requested assistance for 512 redundancies, 502 of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance, in 10 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 30 (manufacture of other transport equipment) in the nuts ii region emilia-romagna (ith5) in italy.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 19 october 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of italy to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the 15th application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 658 495 from the egf to assist the 512 workers made redundant in ten enterprises in division 30 of nace revision 2 (manufacture of other transport equipment) during the reference period of nine months from 28 february 2011 to 28 november 2011. the commission has received confirmation that the persons counted under the third indent of the second paragraph of article 2 have been dismissed. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report concerning the mobilisation of eur 2 658 495 from the egf for italy to support the 502 potential beneficiaries of the 512 workers made redundant in 10 enterprises in nace revision 2 division 30 (manufacture of other transport equipment) in the nuts ii region emilia-romagna (ith5) in italy.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the request for the mobilisation of the egf made by italy in respect of the 512 redundancies, 502 of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance, in ten undertakings manufacturing other transport equipment in the italian region of emilia-romagna. i believe that the european commission should mobilise eur 2 658 495.00 to help the integration of workers in italian transport equipment companies. the financial package now approved should be channelled to support measures in the area of vocational guidance, individual training and general information provided through specific employment channels.
in writing. - in this plenary session alone, we voted on seven calls for mobilisation of the globalisation adjustment fund, which illustrates the path of economic and social disaster that continues to be followed in the eu. this application concerns 512 workers made redundant by ten companies in the transport equipment manufacturing sector in northern italy. the commission is proposing to mobilise eur 2 658 495 to assist workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns and the global economic and financial crisis. these redundancies occur in the italian region of emilia-romagna, where the unemployment rate for men and women has risen over the last five years from 1.48% to 5.68% and from 3.45% to 7.37%, respectively. we're approving palliative measures, but we have to attack the root of the problem: we must break with the neoliberal policies which are driving us into the abyss without shining a light of hope on the millions of workers who are being deprived of their right to work and to a decent life.
in writing. - i approve this report, given the link between redundancies and major structural changes in world trade patterns. the 2011 automobile industry pocket guide shows that in 2010 the eu-27 lost 26% of the world production of passenger cars. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the aid granted to saab was compatible with the internal market. i welcome the coordinated package of personalised services to be financed, including its compatibility with actions financed by the structural funds, which includes measures to reintegrate the 1,350 workers into the labour market, such as job search assistance, vocational guidance, validation of experience and labour market training, job placement and job search support, support for business creation and mobility grants. in a time of economic crisis, the spirit of european solidarity must be safeguarded.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to react, particularly with regard to the support to be given to people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported the present report concerning the mobilisation of eur 5 454 560 from the egf for sweden to support the 1 350 potential beneficiaries of the 3 748 redundancies in saab automobile sa, one of its subsidiaries saab automobile powertrain ab and 16 of its suppliers in sweden.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because sweden's application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund meets the requirements for determining financial contributions laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. i would like to highlight the additional measures taken by the swedish authorities to ensure that the training programmes, which are targeting over 3,000 workers, meet the future needs of the region in terms of skills and qualifications and by focusing on growing sectors such as the renewable energy sector.
in writing. - saab was, until recently, a solid brand in the european automotive scene, a company which employed many workers and was a factor of development and stability in the regions in which it operated. unfortunately, this situation was reversed and the company experienced serious difficulties which resulted in its declaration of insolvency. recent news reports suggest a potential recovery of the company and the brand, possibly through the production of electric cars, but even if this happens, the number of employees will remain very small compared to previous periods. the trollhattan region has been particularly hard hit by unemployment. i would like saab to be able to reinvent itself and contribute again to the progress of sweden and, above all, to support the workers who have lost their jobs in the short term and to ensure that the fund's aid contributes to a stable return to the labour market.
in writing. - this report, by mr frédéric daerden, is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2012/005 se/saab, sweden). i welcome the adoption of this proposal for a decision, which i voted in favour of, and i hope that this fund will help to rebuild the industrial fabric in which these companies have operated and thus help sweden to overcome the labour difficulties that some communities are experiencing.
in writing. - this proposal to mobilise the egf concerns redundancies in saab automobile sa, one of its subsidiaries and 16 of its suppliers. we are facing the dismissal of 3,748 workers and the mobilisation of the sum of 5,454,560 euros, a dismissal which has generated a 20% increase in unemployment in the trollhattan region. as usual, the justification for further attacks on labour rights lies in so-called 'significant structural changes in world trade patterns' - world trade patterns that the eu influences with its policies of deregulation and liberalisation of international trade. the number of units produced in the eu decreased significantly. when wages are lowered, when unemployment is promoted on a large scale, when precarious employment is promoted, when public services are destroyed, this is the result: the internal market shrinks as a result of a feeling of insecurity about the future. in the famous words of an american trade unionist, "machines don't buy cars yet". more than these funds, what workers need is the implementation of investment policies that create and maintain jobs with rights.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid is now to be given to sweden which has requested assistance for a total of 3,748 eligible redundancies, 1,350 of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance for workers in saab automobile sa, one of its subsidiaries, saab automobile powertrain ab, and 16 of its suppliers in sweden.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 19 october 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of sweden to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the 14th application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 454 560 from the egf in favour of the 3 748 workers made redundant, 1 350 of whom are potential beneficiaries of assistance, including 3 239 redundancies at saab automobile ab and its subsidiary saab automobile powertrain ab during the four-month reference period from 19 december 2011 to 19 april 2012, and a further 509 redundancies at 16 subcontractors before the reference period but related to the same collective redundancy process. the swedish authorities confirmed that all these redundancies had taken place. in view of the above, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. sweden has submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of 3 748 eligible redundancies, of which 1 350 are potential beneficiaries of workers' compensation benefits for saab automobile sa, one of its subsidiaries, namely saab automobile powertrain ab, and 16 of its suppliers. i agree to the mobilisation of eur 5.454.560,00 to support the reintegration of workers into the labour market, in particular vocational training measures aimed at creating high value-added jobs, thus avoiding the off-shoring of knowledge acquired in this industrial sector. it should also be noted that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of swedish companies, as it is complementary support provided by the european union to alleviate the social difficulties that workers will face.
in writing. - we are looking at the mobilisation of the egf for redundancies in saab automobile sa, one of its subsidiaries and 16 of its suppliers. we are faced with the dismissal of 3,748 workers, the mobilisation of the sum of 5,454,560 euros, a dismissal which has generated a 20% increase in unemployment in the trollhattan region. as usual, the justification for this further attack on the right to work lies, on the one hand, in the major structural changes in world trade patterns and, on the other, in the decline of the units produced in the european union, which passes to 26% of world production in 2011, compared to 34.1% in 2005. when wages are lowered, large-scale unemployment is promoted, precarious employment is promoted, public services are destroyed, this is the result: the internal market shrinks as a result of a feeling of insecurity about the future. these funds 'legitimize' the policy of redundancies and support employers in this decision. what workers need is investment policies that create and maintain jobs with rights. only a break with the policies currently being pursued by the eu will be able to stop this path of social and economic disaster.
in writing. − i approve this report, which gives the green light to this application concerning 1,106 redundancies, 500 of which are potential recipients of assistance, in 423 enterprises operating in the manufacture of processed metal products, except machinery and equipment in the basque country region in 2011. in my view, the metal products sector is a key supplier to a wide range of manufacturing industries, in particular shipbuilding, construction and the automotive sector. all these sectors have suffered a significant impact across the european union caused by the economic crisis, as previously acknowledged by the commission. to make matters worse, spain is among the member states most severely affected by the global economic and financial crisis. the manufacturing industry, on the other hand, is among the most affected sectors, with the situation deteriorating. the gloomy outlook for the industry as a result of the global economic and financial crisis has led to a reduced demand for and therefore lower production of metal and metal products, which has led to more redundancies since 2011, which leads us to consider the need for this support.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report concerning the mobilisation of eur 1 299 545 from the egf for spain to support the 500 potential beneficiaries of the 1 106 redundancies in 423 enterprises ('manufacture of metal products other than machinery and equipment') in the basque country in spain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the application of spain/basque country to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund meets the requirements for determining financial contributions laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in favour of the mobilisation of eur 1 299 545 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain. it is, however, regrettable that measures relating to the reintegration of dismissed workers do not provide for programmes focused on entrepreneurship, as there is no financial support for workers who decide to set up their own businesses.
in writing. - the production of metal products is intended for many manufacturing industries which, due to globalisation and the economic and financial crisis, have been particularly affected. this has meant less demand and less capacity to maintain production and labour levels, and reduced the number of workers in their service. in spain, the production of the sector fell by 24,6% and the production of metal products by 23,3% in 2009 when compared to the previous year. in the basque country, 1,106 redundancies in 423 companies gave rise to the application for the fund which we are now examining. the province of biscay was the most affected by redundancies in this sector, accounting for 57% of the total number of redundancies. i support their mobilization, as i have done in other cases, and i am concerned about the spread of these applications in the various countries which indicate the generalization of the crisis, and i hope that the european union and the member states will have the ingenuity and the art and the appropriate institutional architecture to reverse this worrying situation, which has no obvious end in sight for the time being.
in writing. - this report, by salvador garriga polledo, is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application 'egf/2012/018 es/basque country metal products', spain). on 19 october 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. this is the 17th application to be examined under the eu budget 2012, submitted to the commission on 28 december 2011, for the mobilisation of eur 1 299 545, and is intended to mitigate the social impact of the redundancies of 1 106 workers in 423 enterprises in division 25 (manufacture of processed metal products, except machinery and equipment) of nace rev. 2, in the basque country. i voted in favour of this proposal, as the application fulfils the conditions for the mobilisation of the egf and i hope for a rapid recovery of the economic fabric of the basque region.
in writing. - further mobilisation of the egf for the metal products sector, which supplies a wide range of manufacturing industries, in particular shipbuilding, construction and the automotive sector. this time we are faced with the dismissal of 1,106 workers, dismissals by 423 companies based in the basque country. spain is among the member states most severely affected by the economic and financial crisis. manufacturing is among the sectors most affected, along with the metalworking sector, which lost more than 180 000 jobs, representing approximately 15% of total employment in the sector. the effects of deindustrialization are visible, the result of policies designed to destroy the fabric of production, of relocations, of the free movement of capital and of the financialization of the economy. we're approving palliatives that, while necessary, are not the answer. we need a different direction for europe, one that puts social justice and the welfare of the people at the heart of its policies and that promotes the right to work with rights, to decent wages and pensions, among other rights won by workers over more than a century of hard struggle.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to spain, which has requested assistance for 1,106 redundancies, 500 of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance, in 423 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 25 (manufacture of metal products other than machinery and equipment) in the basque country (es21) at nuts ii level in spain.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 19 october 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of spain to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the 17th application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 299 545 from the egf in favour of the 1106 workers made redundant, 500 of whom are potential beneficiaries of assistance, in 423 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 25 (manufacture of metal products other than machinery and equipment) in the basque country (es21) during the reference period of nine months from 22 january 2011 to 22 october 2011. i have voted in favour of this report, given the facts and in accordance with the regulations.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the request for the mobilisation of the egf made by spain in respect of the 1,106 redundancies, 500 of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance, in 423 enterprises manufacturing metal products, except machinery and equipment, in the basque country. i believe that the european commission should mobilise eur 1 299 545 to help the integration of workers in spanish metalworking companies. the financial package now approved should be channelled to support measures in the area of vocational guidance, individual training and general information provided through specific employment channels.
in writing. - this is another egf mobilisation for the metal products sector, which supplies a wide range of manufacturing industries, in particular shipbuilding, construction and the automotive sector. this time we are faced with the dismissal of 1,106 workers, dismissals by 423 companies based in the basque country. spain is among the member states most severely affected by the economic and financial crisis. manufacturing is among the sectors most affected, along with the metal industry, which has lost more than 180,000 jobs, representing approximately 15% of total employment in the sector. the effects of deindustrialization are visible, the result of policies aimed at destroying the productive fabric and financializing capital, with the first and only objective of making the quickest and easiest profit. we're approving palliatives that, while necessary, are not the answer. we need a different direction for europe, one that puts social justice and the welfare of the people at the heart of its policies and that promotes the right to work with rights, to decent wages and pensions, among other rights that workers have won over more than a century.
in writing. - i approve this report giving the green light to this mobilisation of the egf, involving 12 000 workers worldwide, working in 10 production units on four continents. only 420 employees remain in europe and japan and the asia-pacific region together account for a significant share of the world market, as do india and china. one of the main reasons for the growing importance of these countries is the rapid expansion of electronics manufacturing in these regions, which is in turn mainly due to labour costs and cost-benefit advantages. in these circumstances, and with the recession in european markets in general, i stress once again that it is necessary not only to support but also to take serious measures to strengthen and rebuild the european union as one of the most competitive economic blocs in the world, and this situation reflects this new lack of economic growth in the global context. serious and effective action must be taken immediately!
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported the present report concerning the mobilisation of eur 1 370 910 from the egf for denmark to support the 153 potential beneficiaries of the 303 redundancies at flextronics international denmark a/s.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because denmark's application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund meets the requirements for determining financial contributions laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in favour of the mobilisation of eur 1 370 910 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for denmark. i would point out that the action plan submitted by the danish authorities includes innovative measures, compared to what is normally offered by employment agencies, to enable displaced workers to adapt to the difficult and competitive labour market in the region concerned.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support the financing of training for the future reintegration into employment of people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural adjustment. in the present case, the application is intended to benefit 303 citizens working for the company flextronics in denmark. i agree to the mobilisation of € 1 370 910 to support the 303 citizens in their vocational retraining.
in writing. − the european union (eu), recognising the very serious social consequences of the current economic and financial crisis, has set up the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to provide additional support to workers affected by structural changes in world trade. this report is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the egf, in accordance with point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application egf/2011/013 dk/flextronics, denmark). on 19 october 2012, the commission adopted a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark to support the reintegration of workers made redundant as a result of the global crisis, following the abovementioned application submitted on 21 december 2011. this is the 18th application under the 2012 eu budget, and it is intended to mitigate the social impact of the 216 workers made redundant by the electronics manufacturer flextronics international denmark a/s. i approve this aid in the hope that the danish electronics industry will recover quickly.
in writing. − we are examining the 18th application under the 2012 budget, which concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 370 910 from the egf for denmark. the application concerns the collective redundancies of 216 workers at flextronics internactional denmark a/s, located in the midtjylland region, skive county, which has already received support from the egf under two applications. a company that was ranked by circuits assembly.com as the second largest electronics manufacturing services company by revenue worldwide! as has been the case on several occasions, the justification for this further attack on workers' rights is the structural changes in world trade patterns in the area of services provided by this company: design and manufacturing services for electronic products and the relocation of production units to asia. the eu is pursuing policies of liberalization and deregulation of international trade. we must face this wave of mass redundancies head on and attribute to it the real reason: is the quickest and easiest profit that ever prevails. and it is the same people, the workers, who pay for the crises that capitalism creates and will never be able to solve.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to denmark which has requested assistance for 303 redundancies, 153 of which are potential recipients of assistance, in flextronics international denmark a/s during the four-month reference period from 1 july to 31 october 2011, including 87 redundancies outside this period but related to the same collective redundancy process.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 19 october 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of denmark to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis due to globalisation. this is the 18th application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 370 910 from the egf in favour of 216 workers made redundant in flextronics international denmark a/s during the reference period of four months from 1 july to 31 october 2011 and 87 workers made redundant outside that period but linked to the same collective redundancies. the situation described is well established and in accordance with community regulations, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report, which concerns the mobilisation of eur 1 370 910 from the egf for denmark, with the aim of supporting the 153 potential beneficiaries of the 303 redundancies at flextronics international denmark a/s.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. denmark submitted an application to mobilise the egf in favour of 153 of the 303 workers, as they had opted to participate in the measures in question. i agree to the mobilisation of eur 1 370 910,00 to support the reintegration of workers into the labour market, in particular vocational training measures aimed at creating high value-added jobs in denmark, thus avoiding the off-shoring of knowledge acquired in this industrial sector. it should also be noted that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of danish companies, as it is complementary support from the european union to alleviate the social difficulties that workers will face.
in writing. − we are examining the 18th application under the 2012 budget, which concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 370 910 from the egf for denmark. the application concerns the collective redundancies of 216 workers at flextronics international denmark a/s, located in the midtjylland region, skive county, which has already received support from the egf under two applications. a company that was ranked by circuits assembly.com as the second largest electronics manufacturing services company by revenue worldwide! as has been the case on several occasions, the justification for this further attack on workers' rights is structural changes in world trade patterns in the area of services provided by this company electronic product design and manufacturing services and the relocation of production units to asia. we must face this wave of mass redundancies head on and attribute to it the real reason: it's the quickest and easiest profit that's talking the loudest. and it is always the workers who pay for the crises that capitalism creates and will never be able to solve.
in writing. - i approve this report which allows the transfer of this egf application, given that there has been a general trend in europe in recent years to shift the information technology sector to asia. the main reason for the redundancies is the transfer of sector functions to non-european third countries. this is a clear sign of the changes in the global market and europe is resisting, as the council did in adopting the last general budget of the european union, to play a minimalist role in strengthening the european economy. we are not only seriously losing our position as the main producer market, but we are also no longer the main purchasing market for the same sectors. in this context, the european union is increasingly 'unfavourable' to large investments. if urgent measures are not taken, combining the fiscal austerity behaviour of the european union with a growth policy, in my view we are increasingly wasting time to continue to have the quality of life that all european citizens had, or thought possible in the european union, which could end the european dream.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report concerning the mobilisation of eur 2 942 680 from the egf for romania with the aim of supporting the 1 416 potential beneficiaries of the 1 904 redundancies at sc nokia romania srl and a supplier in that country.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because romania's application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund meets the requirements for determining financial contributions laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in favour of the mobilisation of eur 2 942 680 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for romania. however, it is regrettable that there is no more detailed information on the planned measures, related to training and skills, so that the dismissed workers can adapt to the reality of the local labour market or on any growth sectors in the region.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support the financing of training for the future reintegration into employment of people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural adjustment. in this case, the application should benefit 1904 citizens working for sc nokia in romania. i agree to the mobilisation of € 2 942 680 to support 1904 citizens in their vocational retraining.
in writing. − this report, by nadezhda neynsky, is based on a proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of eur 2 942 680 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support the reintegration of workers in romania made redundant as a result of the current economic and financial crisis (application egf/2011/014 ro/nokia romania). this application, the sixteenth to be approved under the eu budget for 2012, was submitted to the commission on 22 december 2011 and concerns 1,904 workers who were made redundant by sc nokia romania slr and 95 by one of its suppliers, and provides for the mobilisation of eur 2,942,680. since the application fulfils the conditions for mobilising the egf, the amount requested has a legal framework and complies with the provisions of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the european commission, in particular point 28, i am voting in favour of this proposal and hope that it will help to alleviate the economic difficulties of the inhabitants of that region and to revive the local economy.
in writing. - the application under examination concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 942 680 for romania. the application concerns the dismissal of 1,904 workers (1,809 at sc nokia romania srl and 95 at its supplier). this redundancy is the result of a business decision by nokia to move its production sites to asia and reduce the number of jobs globally by 17,000 workers by the end of 2013. here is a clear example of the unbridled pursuit of the easiest and quickest profit: in the face of statistics showing a 2% decline in mobile and appliance sales in europe and growth in china and latin america, the "house" is being moved, indifferent to the suffering of unemployed workers and their families and to the postponed dreams. the profit-hunger of capital knows no bounds. its servants provide it with the conditions to satisfy it, particularly in terms of the mobility of capital, goods and investments. to intensify more and more exploitation, whether in eastern europe or asia. the mere allocation of a few thousand euros to workers sent to unemployment - while necessary - does not legitimize this inhumanity.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be given to romania which has requested assistance for 1,904 redundancies, 1,416 of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance, at sc nokia romania srl and a supplier in that country.
in writing. − in the framework of the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 19 october 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf for romania to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis due to globalisation. this is the 16th application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 942 680 from the egf to support 1 904 workers made redundant, 1 416 are potential recipients of assistance, including 1 809 redundancies at sc nokia romania srl and 95 at a supplier, which occurred in the four-month reference period from 21 august to 21 december 2011. the situation described has been duly verified by the european commission services and in accordance with community regulations, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are faced with a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of its main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report, which concerns the mobilisation of eur 2 942 680 from the egf for romania, with the aim of supporting the 1 416 potential beneficiaries of the 1 904 redundancies at sc nokia romania srl and another company supplying it.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the request to mobilise the egf made by romania for the redundancies of 1 904 people, of whom 1 416 are potential beneficiaries of assistance, at sc nokia romania srl and a supplier in that country. i believe that the european commission should mobilise eur 2 942 680 to help the romanian company's employees to find employment. the financial package now approved should be channelled to support measures in the area of vocational guidance, individual training and general information provided through specific employment channels.
in writing. - the application under examination concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 942 680 for romania. the application concerns the dismissal of 1,904 workers (1,809 at sc nokia romania srl and 95 at its supplier). this redundancy is the result of a business decision by nokia to move its production sites to asia and reduce the number of jobs globally by 17,000 workers by the end of 2013. here is a clear, unvarnished example of the unbridled pursuit of the easiest and quickest profit: in the face of statistical data showing a 2% decline in sales of mobile services and appliances in europe and growth in china and latin america, the "home" is being moved, indifferent to the suffering of unemployed workers and their families and to the postponed dreams. as we have said, allocating a few thousand euros to workers sent to unemployment is not the solution. but in the face of the uncontrollable increase in unemployment, it is certainly a help to those who, from one moment to the next, find themselves deprived of the only means of supporting themselves and their families.
in writing. - i approve this report allowing for the allocation of this egf application, taking into account the redundancies in the mobile social services sector in styria resulting from cuts in the social budget implemented by styria. the budget cuts also covered the social sector concerned, including the contractually agreed disbursements paid by styria for social assistance to young people and support for disabled people. these services are provided in styria by care providers in the form of non-profit organisations, limited liability companies and (small) private companies. in my view, if governments are asked to take austerity measures to balance public accounts, i consider it legitimate and a duty of the european union to assist those member states which are faced with budget cuts. i think this case should be an example for states that are currently going through the most painful economic austerity measures and where civil society has been hit the hardest.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report concerning the mobilisation of eur 5200650 from the egf for austria to support the 350 potential beneficiaries of the 1 050 redundancies in 105 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 88 (social action without housing) in the region of styria (steiermark) in austria.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because austria's application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund meets the requirements for determining financial contributions laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report in favour of the mobilisation of eur 5 200 650 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) for austria. it is important to stress that, despite everything, this assistance should not replace actions which are the responsibility of the company by virtue of national legislation or collective agreements.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support the financing of training for the future reintegration into employment of people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural adjustment. in this case, the application should benefit 1050 citizens from 105 companies in the region of styria, austria. i agree to the mobilisation of €5 200 650 to support the 1050 citizens in their vocational retraining.
in writing. − this report is based on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) and falls within point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the ep, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management (application.egf/2011/011 at/soziale dienstleistungen, austria). the egf was set up in 2006 to support workers whose jobs have been lost as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns brought about by globalisation. on 19 october 2012, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of eur 5200650 for austria. this is the 19th application to be approved under the eu budget for 2012, which was submitted to the commission on 21 december 2011, and concerns 1,050 workers made redundant in 105 enterprises in nace division 88 ver.2 (social action without housing) in the region of styria at nuts ii level (at22). i am pleased to note that the commission has taken the initiative to present a proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos at work.
in writing. - another 1,050 workers were made redundant in 105 enterprises in the styria region. redundancies in the social services sector, with particular emphasis on assistance to disabled people and young people, vulnerable groups which should be the subject of increased (and not decommissioned) financial and human support, especially in this crisis situation. the justification put forward by the styrian authorities for this dismissal is - of course! - the need to consolidate their budget, as part of their contribution to austria's stability and consolidation commitments under the stability plan for 2010-2014, having decided to reduce public funding in those areas. this is a case of unemployment with two consequences: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the social partners are able to take part in the negotiations. to the banks, the pocketbooks and all the generosity. for the populations and the workers, austerity. another example of how this eu is less and less about inclusion, economic and social cohesion, solidarity, progress and social justice. we reaffirm that this aid now approved is only a palliative. it's not the answer.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has already been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be granted to austria, which has submitted requests for assistance in respect of 1,050 redundancies, 350 of which were potential beneficiaries of the intervention, in 105 enterprises in nace rev. 2, division 88 (social action without housing) in the region of styria (steiermark) (3) at nuts ii (at22) level in austria.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 19 october 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of austria to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis due to globalisation. this is the 19th application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5200650 to support 1,050 workers made redundant in 105 enterprises in nace rev. 2 division 88 (< social action without housing >) in the region of styria at nuts ii level (at22) during the reference period, namely between 1 april 2011 and 15 december 2011. the situation described has been duly verified by the european commission services and in accordance with community regulations, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i therefore supported this report, which concerns the mobilisation of eur 5200650 from the egf for austria, with the aim of supporting the 350 potential beneficiaries of the 1050 redundancies in 105 enterprises in nace rev. 2, division 88 (social action without housing) in the region of styria (steiermark) at nuts ii (at22) level in austria.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. austria submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of 1050 redundancies, of which 350 were potential beneficiaries, in 105 social enterprises in the region of styria (steiermark). i agree to the mobilisation of eur 5 200 650 to support the reintegration of workers into the labour market, in particular vocational training measures aimed at creating high value-added jobs in austria, thus avoiding the off-shoring of knowledge acquired in the field of social action. it should also be noted that the egf should not replace the legal and financial responsibilities of austrian companies, as it is a complementary support granted by the european union to alleviate the social difficulties that workers will face.
in writing. - the redundancies of 1 050 workers in 105 enterprises in the styria region. redundancies in the social services sector, with particular emphasis on assistance to disabled people and young people, vulnerable groups who should be the subject of systematic increase in financial and human support. the justification given by the estonian authorities for this redundancy is the need to consolidate their budget as part of their contribution to austria's stability and consolidation commitments under the stability plan 2010-2014, having decided to reduce public funding in those areas. this is a case of unemployment with two consequences: workers who were providing assistance to vulnerable groups are dismissed, leaving them without assistance, and it adds to the contingent of people who are unemployed and in need of help from the state. is this the europe of inclusion, of economic and social cohesion? i'm sure you didn't. this is the europe that serves the monopolies, protects the big companies, the banks and promotes inequality. we reaffirm that the guarantee of the rights of workers and peoples must be achieved by other means. we reaffirm that the aid we are voting on today is only a palliative. it's not the answer.
in writing. − i approve this authorisation for the allocation of this egf application, taking into account the current difficulties of nokia siemens networks, almost all subcontractors and the regions concerned. given the company's staff reduction of around 12% worldwide, which has already led to the closure of the plant in romania, another egf application and the fact that nokia is expecting more redundancies and another application from finland for the next round of redundancies. in my view, this is a clear example of the economic situation and of europe's own competitive, financial and economic viability, the effect of which is a clear consequence of the council's lack of commitment to the relaunch of the european economy. i would also like to raise the question here whether we should not ask ourselves whether the council should not look at these numerous requests from the egf as a sign that 'repair' measures are not practical but that what really works is a preventive and effective policy. unfortunately, the council's signals are reluctant to a joint effort to combat the current situation facing all european citizens and that could have far more serious consequences.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report on the mobilisation of eur 5 346 000 from the egf for finland to support the 1 000 redundancies, all of which are potential recipients of assistance, at nokia plc (salo) in finland.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because finland's application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund meets the requirements for determining financial contributions laid down in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund was set up to support the financing of training for the future reintegration into employment of people who have lost their jobs as a result of structural adjustment. in this case, the application should benefit 1000 citizens working for nokia (salo) in finland. i agree to the mobilisation of €5 346 000 to support the 1000 citizens in their vocational retraining.
in writing. - the low wage policy in some regions, notably in asia and china, has led to the relocation of many businesses in the eu and the closure of others. this was the case in finland with the multinational nokia, which saw the assembly of mobile phones from its factories in salo (finland) and cluj (romania) transferred to the asian continent (china, south korea, india and vietnam). this report, by alda sousa, is based on a proposal for a decision of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the mobilisation of eur 5 346 000 from the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support the reintegration of around 1 000 workers made redundant as a result of the relocation of the nokia plant in salo. this application, the 15th to be examined under the eu budget for 2012, was submitted by finland on 4 july 2012 and a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf was adopted by the commission to this effect on 19 october 2012. since the application meets the eligibility criteria for the egf, i am voting in favour and hope that it will help to alleviate the economic difficulties of the people of the salo region.
in writing. - another 9,536 workers, women and men, who lost their jobs, who saw their lives suspended from one moment to the next. the eu is mobilising €24 272 840 in an attempt to minimise the damage caused by policies that destroy the productive apparatus and social services provided to the most deprived citizens. as we have said, this is not the solution that the workers are demanding. it's just the palliative. it is also a way for the eu to say that it 'regrets the uncontrolled escalation of unemployment'. in this plenary session we are looking at two cases of mobilisation of the egf as a result of the collective redundancies at nokia. the redundancies are the result of a business decision by nokia to relocate its production sites to asia and reduce the number of jobs globally by 17000 workers by the end of 2013. despite our fundamental disagreement with the vision behind the creation of this fund, which aims to legitimize the inhuman consequences of capitalist globalisation, we understand that these workers cannot be left without any support. the point is that this does not legitimately deny them the right to work and to a decent life.
in writing. − the eu is an area of solidarity and the european globalisation adjustment fund is part of it. these supports are essential to help the unemployed and the victims of displacement in a globalised context. the increasing number of companies relocating to take advantage of the low labour costs in several countries, notably china and india, has had a detrimental effect on countries which respect workers' rights. the egf is intended to help workers who are victims of the relocation of companies and is essential to facilitate access to a new job. the egf has been used in the past by other eu countries and this aid should now be given to finland, which has requested assistance for 1,000 redundancies, all of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance, at nokia plc (salo) in finland.
in writing. − under the european globalisation adjustment fund, the european commission adopted on 19 october 2012 a new proposal for a decision on the mobilisation of the egf in favour of finland to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. this is the 15th application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 346 000 from the egf to support 1,000 redundant workers, all of whom are potential recipients of assistance, identified at nokia plc (salo) during the four-month reference period from 1 march 2012 to 1 july 2012. the situation described has been duly verified by the european commission services and in accordance with community regulations, i have voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up in 2006 to provide additional assistance to workers affected by the consequences of major changes in the structure of international trade and to help them reintegrate into the labour market. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the economic, financial and social crisis. at a time when we are facing a serious financial, economic and social crisis, with rising unemployment as one of the main consequences, the eu should use all the means at its disposal to respond, particularly in terms of support for people who have lost their jobs. i have therefore supported this report, which concerns the mobilisation of eur 5 346 000 from the egf for finland to support the 1 000 workers made redundant, all of them potential beneficiaries of assistance, at nokia plc (salo) in finland.
in writing. - i voted in favour of my report because it guarantees assistance to 1 000 finnish workers who have been made redundant. reiterates that egf assistance cannot be used to relieve undertakings of obligations under the law and collective agreements, or to finance restructuring measures in undertakings or sectors; reiterates that the egf cannot be used to encourage the substitution of precarious work for permanent employment contracts, that egf assistance can only co-finance active labour market measures leading to sustainable and long-term employment. it claims that these redundancies in salo, finland, and cluj, romania, are the result of a business decision by nokia to move its production sites to asia. however, i cannot but strongly deplore the insertion of two amendments by the employment committee of the european parliament, which, on the one hand, describe the amount allocated per worker as excessive and, on the other hand, call for commercial reciprocity to ensure the expansion of european companies into non-european markets.
in writing. − regulation no 1927/2006 of the european parliament and of the council of 20 december 2006 established the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers who have lost their jobs as a result of structural changes in the global economy. i agree with the request for the mobilisation of the egf made by finland for the 1000 redundancies, all of which are potential beneficiaries of assistance, at nokia plc. union financial assistance to workers made redundant should be made available promptly and efficiently, in accordance with the joint declaration of the european parliament, the council and the commission adopted at the conciliation meeting of 17 july 2008.
in writing. - we are talking about 9,536 workers who have lost their jobs, whose lives have been suspended from one moment to the next. the eu is mobilising €24 272 840 in an attempt to minimise the damage caused by policies that destroy the productive apparatus and social services provided to the most deprived citizens. as we have said, this is not the solution that the workers are demanding. it's just the palliative. it is also a way for the eu to say that it 'regrets the uncontrolled escalation of unemployment'. we are looking at two cases of mobilisation of the egf as a result of the collective redundancies at nokia. the company's decision to relocate its production sites to asia and reduce its global workforce by 17,000 employees by the end of 2013 is the result of a business decision by nokia. here is a clear example of the unbridled pursuit of the easiest and quickest profit: in the face of statistical data showing a 2% decline in sales of mobile services and appliances in europe and growth in china and latin america, the "house" is being moved, indifferent to the suffering of unemployed workers and their families and to the postponed dreams.
in writing. - i approve of this report because i question the methodology used, particularly as regards the type of questions asked, some of which are sensitive, which raises doubts about the added value created and the sincerity of the answers. for example, questions about the interviewee's possible drug problems, possible gun possession, and fear of terrorism could give rise to misinterpretations. without wishing to start a debate on statistical methods in general, it is up to the commission to propose a fully coherent and clear instrument which does not reveal methodological problems and inconsistencies. victimization surveys are a 'subjective' type of survey that assess a person's level of victimization and their feelings about crime. as such, questions should be formulated in a clear and precise manner, with the aim of ensuring that the answers are as informative as possible and that their analysis can be used to develop policy in the future. the answers should leave as little room for divergent interpretations as possible, since the 'statistical fear of crime' can be quickly misinterpreted.
in writing. − the existence of common statistics at eu level is an important basis for the development of eu policies. the appropriate and necessary eu instruments should therefore be developed and adopted exclusively on the basis of a common system of reliable and coherent statistical data and background information. i voted in favour of this report because the instrument proposed by the commission does not yet have sufficient methodological robustness and consistency and is fragile in the face of a cost-benefit analysis of the funds used and the results expected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of rejecting the commission's proposal for a regulation on european statistics on crime safety because i consider that the issues related to their financing are not sufficiently clear and because i argue that such statistics can only be of added value if they are carried out in all eu member states without exception, contrary to what is proposed.
in writing. - i accept the rapporteur's decision to refer this proposal back to the european commission. european statistics on crime safety are a matter for the member states, but they are very weak and incomplete, which led the european commission to present a proposal for a regulation on a common statistical data system. however, the proposal was flawed by a lack of information and an inadequate cost-benefit analysis, in particular a clear and adequate explanation for the expenditure of eur 12 million.
in writing. statistics is an essential technique for the substantiation of most scientific work. if we have the best information on a given subject, we can make a more correct and informed decision. to do this, we need a reliable and up-to-date statistical base. the report under review, by timothy kirkhope, concerns the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european statistics on crime safety. in order to inform and develop european union (eu) policies, we need common statistics at eu level. the methodology to be followed shall be scientifically tested and shall not conflict with or duplicate techniques already used by member states.
in writing. - we believe that the usefulness of statistical information depends on its comparability in time and space, which implies the adoption of a set of common definitions and nomenclatures. in this case, the commission proposes a regulation with the aim of conducting an eu-wide survey on crime safety, in particular on specific types of crime and aspects relating to citizens' sense of security. despite the importance of this study, we share the rapporteur's concerns about the lack of information provided by the commission on the various doubts raised. doubts about the subjectivity of some survey questions that may call into question the reliability of the study, the non-participation of certain countries, among others. so we tracked his position.
in writing. - the matter at hand is relevant to our knowledge of the state of play of crime in the eu. however, the need for this type of data leads us to weigh the instrument very carefully. any proposed instrument shall be methodologically sound and consistent and shall be based on an appropriate cost-benefit analysis in relation to the funds used and the expected results. it therefore seemed to me that the proposal raised a number of fundamental questions to which the commission was unable to provide an answer, despite all the efforts of the rapporteur. hence my vote.
in writing. − the existence of common statistics at eu level is an important basis for the development of eu policies. these surveys can only add value if they are carried out in all eu member states without exception, as opposed to the current situation. since this measure is not provided for in the commission's proposal, i support the rapporteur who, on the basis of extensive consultations with the shadow rapporteurs and the decision of the majority of the political groups, proposes that the legislative proposal in question be rejected, for which i voted in favour.
in writing. − the importance of statistical information is an important basis for decision-making and the creation of measures, even in shared competences, as is the case in criminal law. the proposal put forward by the european commission is too inconsistent and subjective to meet the objectives of an effective database, particularly one which will serve to develop future policies. in parallel, the financing of eur 12 million was still to be explained. for these reasons, the survey presented did not convince members of the european parliament, and that is why i voted against this legislative proposal.
in writing. - we believe that the usefulness of statistical information at european level depends on its comparability in time and space, which implies the adoption of a set of common definitions and nomenclatures. in this case, the commission proposes a regulation with the aim of conducting an eu-wide survey on security from crime, in particular on specific types of crime and aspects relating to citizens' perceptions of security. despite the importance of this study, we share the rapporteur's concerns about the lack of information provided by the commission on the various doubts she raised during the procedure. these doubts and questions concerned the subjectivity of some survey indicators which could call into question the reliability of the study, the non-participation of certain countries in the study, and even the relevance of carrying it out at this specific social moment. we therefore supported the rapporteur's view.
in writing. − ground handling services cover all ground activities (at airports) related to aviation. the revenue generated amounts to some eur 50 billion and employs more than 60,000 people in europe. the efficient provision of these services is essential for airports, air carriers, passengers and also for the optimal use of air transport infrastructure and for the performance of the aviation system in general. in view of the successive crises affecting air transport, the rapid growth of air traffic, the increase in the number of air carriers and the increasing capacity constraints at airports, it became necessary to replace the 1996 directive, which at the time constituted a first step towards the progressive opening and harmonisation of access to the groundhandling market. i believe it is essential that ambitious measures can be taken which can bring about real improvements in the current system, which is why i support the motion to refer the report back to the commission, allowing negotiations to resume which can help to reach more acceptable commitments during the first half of 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on groundhandling services at airports in the union, as i considered that the rules proposed by the european commission for the liberalisation of handling services would have very negative social costs and are therefore unacceptable.
in writing. − the ground handling services are crucial for the smooth operation of airports. there are eleven categories of ground handling services: (1) ground administration and supervision, (2) passenger handling, (3) baggage handling, (4) cargo and mail handling, (5) runway operations, (6) aircraft cleaning and servicing, (7) fuel and oil handling, (8) in-line maintenance, (9) air operations and crew management, (10) ground transportation and (11) catering. the provision of these services represents a revenue of eur 50 billion and employs 60,000 people in europe. i am not a strong advocate of protectionist policies and tend to support the liberalisation of markets, since i believe that competition is generally synonymous with a higher quality of service and a higher level of satisfaction for the end-customer, in this case the passenger. in this sense, i am in favour of the commission's proposal to liberalize this market.
in writing. the report which has reached the plenary, following the vote in the committee on transport and tourism, rejects the european commission's position. this position points to an increase in the number of providers of assistance services at eu airports, changing the existing reference threshold in directive 96/67/ec, i.e. deepening the liberalisation that this directive has established. although the european commission has numerous studies and evaluation reports showing the damage caused by liberalisation for workers and passengers, taking into account the reduction in wages and benefits, the increase in job insecurity, the degradation of the quality of services and the training and specialisation of workers, with consequent increased risks in terms of safety and although only airlines have benefited from the reduction in costs, the commission shows once again that interests are served. we welcome the rejection of the commission's proposal, but we cannot help but point out the hypocrisy of the social democrats. the commission's proposal is not a new one, but it is a new one, and it is not a new one. they also show, after all, what interests they serve.
in writing. - in recent decades, with the rise in the average standard of living of citizens, the reduction in air travel costs and the emergence of low-cost airlines, we have seen an exponential increase in the number of passengers in transit through airports and the recovery of many runways, some abandoned since the second world war, for the secondary market. artur zasada reports on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on groundhandling services at airports in the european union (eu) and repealing council directive 96/67/ec. in a globalised world where life is a constant rush - so many requests we don't want to miss - delays at airports, whether in check-in, in the departure of the plane or in the disruption that the loss of a piece of luggage always causes, call into question the quality of services that are required.
in writing. the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote in the council of ministers. the 200 amendments tabled to the report in plenary identify the lack of consensus and the need for more time to assess the implications of the rules proposed by the european commission.
in writing. - after the rejection of this report by the committee responsible, tran, by only two votes, i think that the motion to refer the matter back to the committee is the best way of finding the necessary consensus for the correct application of this directive. i also think that the complete rejection of a proposal from the european commission which substantially updates existing legislation is unjustifiable, since most member states have already incorporated this same liberalisation. the 1996 directive already allowed the liberalisation of groundhandling services at airports. the difference in this report is that the minimum number of service providers is increased from 2 to 3. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams in 2004 was signed on the same day as the agreement between ryanair and ams in 2005. the controversy surrounding this report requires that it be referred back to the committee responsible in order to reach a broad consensus on this important aspect of the airport sector.
in writing. the report which has reached the plenary, following the vote in the committee on transport and tourism, rejects the european commission's position. this position points to an increase in the number of providers of assistance services at eu airports, amending the existing reference threshold in directive 96/67/ec, with the aim that member states may 'limit the number of providers to no less than two per category', further opening the sector to the market and leading to further liberalisation. the arguments behind this move refer to an alleged inefficient assessment of the provision of groundhandling services. what is not said is that these measures will further aggravate a scenario of constant social dumping used to blackmail and pressure workers through dismissals, the admission of new workers with lower wages, wages below inflation, more insecure jobs, more temporary work, degradation of the level of skills and training of staff, and with the consequent degradation of the quality of the services provided. the workers in this sector have been fighting against these measures with great vigour.
in writing. - i approve of this report which maintains that the series of slots to be retained by airlines would be 80% of the currently used slots, and i am in favour of a position against the commission proposal which redefines the length of the series of slots to 85%, although i support the commission proposal which allows for the secondary exchange of slots with or without monetary compensation, which i believe is beneficial because it will allow member states to allocate part of the revenues generated from the slots to finance the optimisation of airport infrastructure and services. i also support the intention to introduce the principle of applying sanctions to airlines which do not respect the schedules allocated to them. in my view, these measures will increase the rates of use of the time slots, one of the main objectives of this regulation, without harming the industry associated with the procedures for establishing the allocation of time slots.
in writing. − under the legislation in force, slots are allocated to carriers on the basis of an administrative system established by council regulation (eec) no 95/93 of 18 january 1993 on common rules for the allocation of slots at community airports, as amended by regulation (ec) no 793/2004. this allocation system has proved to be inefficient and does not ensure full use of airport capacity. one of the great challenges facing europe is the overcrowding of airports. according to eurocontrol's long-term forecasts published in december 2010, at least 10% of air transport demand in 2030 will not be met due to lack of capacity, even taking into account the infrastructure reinforcement currently planned. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it imperative to increase efficiency in the use of existing airport capacity by revising the timetable regulation and improving it so as to reconcile capacity with air transport demand in all segments (long haul, regional links, cargo transport, etc.).
in writing. - the demand for slots by airlines currently exceeds the capacity available at airports. depending on the characteristics of the airport, slot allocation may be necessary at certain times or during periods of heavy traffic. it should also be done in such a way as to ensure that access to congested airports is organised according to fair, non-discriminatory and transparent rules, allowing for the optimum use of airport capacity and the existence of fair conditions of competition. the current regulation is based on the iata global guidelines and has contributed to a considerable improvement in the allocation of slots at congested european airports and to the creation of the internal aviation market. however, the enormous growth in air traffic, with the number of intra-eu connections doubling and the number of long-haul flights from europe increasing by 150% over the last decade, has made it essential to amend this regulation, which is proving to be inefficient at the moment. i therefore support the proposed amendments which i hope will help to make this regulation an effective instrument for managing limited capacity, safeguarding the necessary guarantees for its effective application, ensuring the necessary transparency and allowing greater band mobility, in particular through secondary band trading.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the allocation of slots at airports in the european union, as it includes measures to ensure that airport capacity is used as efficiently as possible, while ensuring that the connection of european regions, including the outermost regions and islands, to the major central airports in europe and to the world air traffic network is not affected.
in writing. − the current system of slot allocation at eu airports has proved inefficient and does not ensure full use of airport capacity. according to eurocontrol and aci europe, one of the major challenges facing europe is the saturation of airports, pointing to long-term forecasts. at least 10% of air transport demand in 2030 will be unmet due to lack of capacity. it is therefore necessary to review the time-series regulation to determine to what extent it can be improved to match capacity with air transport demand, thus increasing airport capacity without ever compromising air transport and passenger safety.
in writing. - we all agree on the role transport plays in our lives by enabling fast and efficient connections. with the advent of low-cost air travel, many airports became congested and in many cases flights had to be moved to secondary airports. the commission has also proposed that the aid be granted to the airport operator in the form of a reduction in the number of passengers and a reduction in the number of aircraft. the way to solve this problem and increase airport capacity is to use so-called secondary lanes along with greater use of alternative transport such as high-speed rail. however, when allocating new slots, the exchanges need to be transparent and properly regulated so that companies do not use those slots for long-haul flights to the detriment of domestic flights.
in writing. − the overall objective of the report is to ensure optimum allocation and use of slots at congested eu airports by proposing to strengthen slot allocation and use mechanisms and ensuring their effective application. the amendments proposed in the report will allow airlines to sell slots they do not use and member states to introduce fines for carriers who return unused slots late, preventing new allocation. the report advocates the promotion of competition between operators, advocating access to secondary timetable trading and the integration of the timetable allocation system into the reform of the european air traffic management system the single european sky. the exhaustive rambling of the rosary of arguments in favour of sacrosanct free competition thus comes, as one might expect, into line with the design of the 'one sky'. i am not saying that the commission should not be involved in this. it is also suggested that a 'single european coordinator' associated with the time slot allocation process should be set up after the completion of the so-called 'single european sky'. we voted against it.
in writing. − improving airport efficiency is essential for further optimisation of eu airports where the time band regulation applies. in view of the various interests involved in this process, the amendments proposed are therefore intended to ensure greater independence and impartiality in the role of the coordinators, also thanks to a more balanced presence of the interested parties within the coordination committee. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, the overall objective of which is to ensure the optimal allocation and use of slots at congested airports in the european union. the majority of the amendments tabled by the european parliament to the proposal submitted by the european commission seek to strengthen the content of certain provisions in terms of effectiveness and clarity of presentation. the new elements presented relate specifically to the independence of coordinators, which will bring greater transparency, and to the secondary trading of time slots, which can be decisive in presenting better conditions to consumers.
in writing. - this report aims to ensure fair and non-discriminatory access to the allocation of take-off and landing slots, at a time when congestion at european airports is becoming a real problem. the aim is therefore to optimise the allocation and use of slots by means of the 80-20 rule and the minimum size of a 5-week series as set out in the current legislation. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions, including the european parliament, the council and the commission. the amounts from secondary time-span trade may be used to improve infrastructure and passenger services. for these reasons, i am voting in favour of this report, which is intended above all not to create any more obstacles for companies in areas facing a period of crisis.
in writing. − the objective expressed in this report is to ensure optimum allocation and use of slots at congested eu airports by proposing to strengthen slot allocation and use mechanisms and ensure their effective application, while promoting 'fair competition and stimulating competition between operators', aspects of which we are concerned about. the aim is to open up access to secondary time-span trade and to strengthen competition by integrating the allocation system into the reform of the european air traffic management system (the single european sky). the real aims of the single european sky are being obscured: national subordination, the reduction of the price of labour and the increase in profits for the large companies, a process with which we disagree. it is also suggested that a 'single european coordinator' associated with the time slot allocation process should be set up after the completion of the so-called 'single european sky'. the proposed amendments would allow airlines to sell slots they do not use and member states to introduce fines for carriers who return unused slots late, preventing new allocation.
in writing. - i approve this report, agreeing with the principle of trying to strike a balance between the economic and human aspects of managing noise caused by airports in the union. in my view, restrictive measures should be imposed and they should be imposed by the regional authorities and not by the european commission, and i strongly believe that the decision will be best taken at the level closest to the citizen. at the same time, i believe that the european parliament should ask the european commission to assess the balance between the competitive and the human aspects of noise at airports in the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that existing noise measures at airports in the union should be updated so that local authorities can improve the noise environment around airports, within the international framework of the icao's balanced approach to noise management.
in writing. − the proposal aims to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around union airports, within the framework of the icao's international balanced approach to noise management. the proposal covers both the operating restrictions on noise emissions and the requirements inherent in the process (mapping, cost-effectiveness assessment and consultation) and transposes international commitments into european law.
in writing. - we have all had bad experiences with excessive noise. although humans have an enormous capacity for adaptation, particularly to noise, the truth is that their continued exposure to high decibel sounds causes serious and often irreparable injuries. the report by jörg leichtfried analyses the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the establishment of rules and procedures for the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at european union (eu) airports within a balanced approach and repealing directive 2002/30/ec of the european parliament and of the council. the aim of this regulation is to update the existing measures in order to improve the noise environment of those living near an airport. there are people complaining about chemical and noise pollution, especially from night flights. noise at airports is a serious problem that must be addressed urgently. according to the civil aviation organisation, within a few years, some five million people will be affected by airport noise in the eu.
in writing. the commission has put forward a proposal to establish rules and procedures for the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at airports. the stated objective is to respond to the protests of the populations living near airport areas. the fear of undermining the sacrosanct 'free competition' by introducing distortions in the market led the commission to call upon itself to 'control the decision on the restriction of operation before its application'. if the commission considers that the decision does not comply with the requirements of the regulation, it may even suspend the decision. we reject this solution, which is an intrusion into the competence of the member states, whose decisions must be made on the basis of assessments of the different impacts on the areas concerned. the report also mentions cost-effectiveness as an aspect to be taken into account in the assessment of noise pollution at airports, weighing the economic benefits and the impact on people's health and quality of life, including a new concept of the overall efficiency of operating restrictions. it is an approach which we also reject. for these reasons we voted against.
in writing. − the purpose of this proposal is to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around union airports, within the framework of the icao's international balanced approach to noise management. the balanced approach must be applied consistently. the balanced approach covers the full range of noise mitigation measures: 1) reduction at the source of aircraft noise; 2) land-use planning and management measures; 3) operational noise reduction procedures (using runways, routes or specific procedures) and 4) operating restrictions. the economic benefits and the impact on the health and quality of life of people living in the vicinity of airports should also be considered when assessing noise pollution at eu airports.
in writing. the commission proposal aims to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve the noise environment around eu airports, within the framework of the icao international civil aviation organisation's international balanced approach to noise management. i voted in favour of this report, which covers both the operating restrictions on noise emissions and the requirements inherent in the process (map making, cost-effectiveness assessment and consultation) and transposes international commitments into european law.
in writing. − an active strategy for noise management in and around airports is the central objective of this report. the european union supports the balanced approach taken by icao, through the commitment to new technologies and aircraft improvement, through the clean sky project programme. the management of land use planning and the associated noise isolation and compensation programmes remain the responsibility of the member state. the approach proposed by the commission should be applied consistently, through stages of the noise assessment process, not setting sound quality objectives, and identifying the most cost-effective solutions. moreover, this same approach should be applied according to the specificities of each european airport. finally, i would like to stress the importance of regional and local authorities in taking measures which involve a cost-effectiveness analysis for noise mitigation.
in writing. the commission has put forward a proposal to establish rules and procedures for the introduction of noise-related operating restrictions at airports. the stated objective is to respond to the protests of the populations living near airport areas. the fear of undermining the sacrosanct 'free competition' by introducing distortions in the market led the commission to call upon itself to 'control the decision on the restriction of operation before its application'. if the commission considers that the decision does not comply with the requirements of the regulation, it may even suspend the decision. we reject this solution, which is an intrusion into the competence of the member states, whose decisions must be made on the basis of assessments of the different impacts on the areas concerned.
in writing. - i approve this report because i consider it very important to develop more appropriate methods and methodologies to ensure the most accurate statistics possible, so that better impact assessments of policies implemented at eu level can be carried out. my position is based on the idea that the most reliable statistics possible are needed to provide a better basis for european authorities to take a position. this regulation, by creating a rigorous framework to ensure the integrity and security of statistics at the level of the european union, is therefore vital for future decision-making. in my view, it is in the interest of all european policy-makers and citizens in general that statistics be as accurate and as close to reality as possible, given that in today's world most decisions are based on statistics.
in writing. − the existence of quality, regulated and reliable statistics is essential to support the implementation of coherent and effective economic policies. on the other hand, they are also essential to strengthen confidence among citizens and markets in the efficiency and seriousness of the economic measures implemented and in the continuation of the adjustments necessary to resolve economic problems. it is intended to create a rigorous governance structure to ensure the integrity of eu statistics relating to the european statistical framework for the next five years. the commission is proposing to strengthen the data protection framework by introducing a new data protection framework, which will be based on the european data protection supervisor's (edps) role in the european union. therefore, member states should adopt the european statistics code of practice in order to maintain trust and commitment to reliable statistics across the eu. eurostat should have the power to express an opinion on the production and management of statistics in the member states and the commission should assist countries which have difficulties in producing statistics in accordance with the standards laid down. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the measures proposed.
in writing. − high-quality, regulated and reliable statistics are the cornerstones of economic policy-making and generate confidence among citizens and markets. a rigorous governance structure is essential to ensure the integrity and quality of statistics in the eu. i voted in favour of this report because i consider it crucial that all member states ensure the existence of independent and transparent statistical bodies and because i agree that eurostat should take steps to ensure that all citizens have free access to statistical data.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report for presenting a more efficient european statistical programme for the period 2013-17. in the aftermath of the crisis, statistics are particularly important for making relevant policy decisions. this programme is expected to be as reliable and responsible as possible. to do this, we need efficient funding mechanisms, a more relevant role for eurostat and strengthened management structures.
in writing. − the quality of european statistics has been a central theme since the beginning of the sovereignty crisis which has shaken the european union. it is urgent to develop the best methods for returning to the criteria of quality, independence and credibility of the statistics presented by the member states, thus allowing the relationship of trust that has been broken between citizens, businesses and financial markets with the states to be re-established. it is therefore essential to strengthen cooperation between the national statistical institutes and the european commission (eurostat), to guarantee the independence of the national statistical institutes, to ensure transparency and access to data and, finally, to ensure that maximum harmonisation is achieved in the implementation of this programme as regards the processing and production of data by all actors.
in writing. statistics is an essential technique for the substantiation of most scientific work. if we have the best information on a given subject, we can make a more correct and informed decision. to do this, we need a reliable and up-to-date statistical base. the report under review, by edward scicluna, is on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament (ep) and of the council on the european statistical programme (esp) for the period 2013 to 2017. the european union needs a governance structure that ensures the integrity and quality of its statistics. in order to inform and develop european union (eu) policies, we need common statistics at eu level. the methodology to be followed, in addition to being scientifically tested, should not conflict with or duplicate techniques already used by the member states (ms). in addition, in times of budgetary constraints, it is essential that we keep their costs to a minimum by using, wherever possible, data already collected and/or processed by member states.
in writing. − the rapporteur argues that the main objective of european statistics is to support the development, monitoring and evaluation of european policies with reliable, objective, comparable and coherent factual information. it adds that high-quality, regulated and reliable statistics are the cornerstones of economic and other policy design. we agree that there is a need for credible statistics, which show through figures the evolution of the situation in the different areas of our common life - health, education, housing, culture, employment and unemployment, among others. these statistics are also important for monitoring and evaluating national policies, contributing to the assessment of the relative position and development of different countries. this statistical information enables us today to see, by the coldness of the figures, the scale of the economic and social crisis we are experiencing - rampant poverty, uncontrollably rising unemployment, hunger. let the figures help us to assess the results of the policies that have brought us here and to make the way clear. unfortunately, that doesn't seem to be the case.
in writing. − high quality, regulated and reliable statistics are the cornerstones of economic policy design. another important aspect is that they generate confidence among citizens and markets. as we have seen during the current economic crisis, incorrect or fraudulent statistics have led to a complete breakdown of confidence in institutions and international financial markets, thus intensifying the crisis. the creation of a strong governance structure to ensure the integrity and quality of statistics in the eu, including stronger governance frameworks including independent agencies, standardised public audit systems, easy-to-use statistical information, and support to member states to ensure compliance are the key themes of this report.
in writing. − the new eu economic management framework currently being implemented requires high quality statistics. statistics are particularly important in this context. as legislators we have the opportunity with this report, which i voted for, to create systems that are as reliable and as responsible as possible through efficient funding mechanisms, a more relevant role for eurostat or strengthened management structures.
in writing. − the existence of quality, regulated and reliable statistics is essential to support the implementation of coherent and effective economic policies. on the other hand, they are also essential to strengthen confidence among citizens and markets in the efficiency and seriousness of the economic measures implemented and in the continuation of the adjustments necessary to resolve economic problems. the proposal under this report aims to create a rigorous governance structure to ensure the integrity of eu statistics relating to the european statistical framework for the next five years. the commission is proposing to strengthen the data protection framework by introducing a new data protection framework, which will be based on the european data protection supervisor's (edps) role in the european union. in this regard, member states should adopt the european statistics code of practice in order to ensure the production of reliable statistics throughout the eu. eurostat should have the power to express an opinion on the production and management of statistics in the member states and the commission should assist countries which are having difficulties in producing statistics in accordance with the standards laid down. in view of the above, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the creation of a european statistical programme aims to frame the development, production and dissemination of european statistics, the main fields of study and objectives for the programming period. the european statistical system in force today needs to meet the highest quality standards in order to support the decision-making of european governance bodies in an efficient and timely manner. i therefore voted in favour of the report presented, since the future european statistical programme will enable european governments, member states and citizens in general to have access to high-quality data in a timely manner. this will have a positive impact not only on the socioeconomic level but also on the accountability and transparency of decision-makers towards european citizens.
in writing. - while we agree on the need to produce credible statistics which show through figures the evolution of demographic, economic and social data - relating, for example, to health, education, housing, culture, employment, unemployment, among others - we also know that these statistics have not worked to diagnose social realities in such a way as to put policy at the service of workers but rather of the large economic groups. we do not agree with the production of these statistics for the purpose of better implementing eu policies, because we do not agree with those policies. however, the standardisation of indicators and means of data collection has allowed for comparability between various countries from the point of view of data analysis, and eurostat's role is key in this regard. but we are very firm in our defence of the view that 'european' statistics should be in addition to 'national' statistics and never replace them and that the national statistical institutes - and the definition of their priorities for statistical collection and analysis - should be the sole and exclusive responsibility of the member states.
in writing. - i approve this report, which aims to strengthen cooperation in the field of financial transaction tax enforcement. this cooperation is necessary in my view, because given the obstacles that lie in the different opinions of the member states on the application of this tax and the long negotiation process between the european parliament and the commission that has been going on for a year, i think it is necessary and vital to draw up this recommendation for the need for an urgent and necessary decision so that these taxes can be applied, based on the idea that the revenues generated are reinjected into the economies of the different member states of the european union, especially those that are undergoing structural reform processes and the application of severe austerity measures, whose markets and the european union itself do not give 'more room' for flexibility in the public policies of the member states.
in writing. − in may 2012, meps expressed support for the creation of a financial transaction tax, considering that the financial sector should also do its part to solve the financial and economic crisis the european union is currently experiencing. however, the lack of unanimity in the council of the european union has not allowed the new rules to apply to all countries. eleven countries have agreed to introduce this tax under the 'enhanced cooperation' mechanism. the european commission is also called upon to examine the consequences of the application of this tax in both participating and non-participating countries and to revise its initial proposal in accordance with this assessment. given the need to avoid distortions of competition, tax evasion and transfers to other jurisdictions, and the advantages of introducing this tax in the functioning of the internal market and in financing the crisis effort, i voted in favour of this draft resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the proposal for a council decision, regardless of which member states are participating.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this recommendation in favour of the enhanced cooperation method in the field of financial transaction tax. the european parliament has long advocated the introduction of a financial transaction tax so that the financial sector, which has a great deal of responsibility and has also benefited from the current situation, can also bear the costs of the crisis. it is now hoped that political courage will be shown and that this measure will be approved by a qualified majority of member states in the council so that these plans can become a reality.
in writing. - mrs podimata gives us a recommendation on the proposal for a council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction tax (ftt). the launch of an itf has been discussed in this parliament on several occasions as a way of strengthening the european union (eu) budget and thus relieving national budgets. the commission consulted the council last year and several meetings of the ecofin council were held on this subject. in the absence of an agreement, enhanced cooperation should be stepped up, as the financial sector - which is responsible for the current crisis - should contribute to the consolidation of public finances and to the strengthening of economic growth. the itf is an extremely low tax on all financial transactions which will certainly have a deterrent effect on illegal transactions. i hope, however, that it will not have any repercussions on the pockets of the citizens of the member states who adopt it. i cannot, however, but regret that the council did not decide unanimously and that it was necessary to resort to enhanced cooperation, thus creating an image of a lack of unity and solidarity between all the member states.
in writing. - we have long advocated the existence of a financial transaction tax, with two fundamental objectives: to introduce some fiscal justice and (help) to combat financial speculation. this tax was promised by the european institutions in 2008, at the beginning of the crisis, as a way of holding the financial sector responsible for the crisis it created. pure propaganda of the moment, quickly forgotten as austerity programmes were put in place to force the people to pay the bill. we would like to reiterate, however, that we have reservations about the technical characteristics of the tax, its political implications and the destination to be given to the revenue to be collected from its application. the european commission forecasts that it could be as high as €57 billion. the channelling of tax revenue into the community budget by a corresponding cut in the direct contributions of the member states deserves our disagreement, since it will mainly benefit the countries with the highest gni, which will thus reduce their contributions, weakening the redistributive function of the budget. the urgent need to put an end to tax havens remains outside any concrete proposals.
in writing. − the adoption of this report will enable the nine countries concerned to establish enhanced cooperation with each other in the field of the establishment of a common itf system by making a request to the commission in accordance with article 329 (1) tfeu. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − in may 2012, meps expressed support for the creation of a financial transaction tax, considering that the financial sector should also do its part to solve the financial and economic crisis the european union is currently experiencing. however, the lack of unanimity in the council of the european union did not allow the unanimity needed to apply the new rules to all countries to be reached, leading to 11 countries agreeing among themselves to introduce this tax under the 'enhanced cooperation' mechanism. this resolution also calls on the european commission to examine the consequences of the application of this tax in both participating and non-participating countries and to revise its initial proposal in accordance with this assessment. given the need to avoid distortions of competition, tax evasion and transfers to other jurisdictions, and the advantages of introducing this tax in the functioning of the internal market and in financing the crisis effort, i voted in favour of this draft resolution.
in writing. − in may 2012, meps expressed support for the creation of a financial transaction tax, considering that the financial sector should also do its part to solve the financial and economic crisis the european union is currently experiencing. however, the lack of unanimity in the council of the european union did not allow an agreement to apply the new rules to all countries, which led to eleven countries agreeing among themselves to introduce this tax under the 'enhanced cooperation' mechanism. this resolution also calls on the european commission to examine the consequences of the application of this tax in both participating and non-participating countries and to revise its initial proposal in accordance with this assessment. given, on the one hand, the need to avoid distortions of competition, tax evasion and transfers to other jurisdictions, and, on the other hand, the advantages of introducing this tax from the point of view of the functioning of the internal market and the financing of the crisis effort, i voted in favour of this draft resolution.
in writing. − in recent years, member states have spent €4.6 billion to support the financial sector, which benefits from tax advantages of €18 billion per year due to vat exemptions. during his state of the union address to the european parliament, the president of the european commission said that 'it is time for the financial sector to give its contribution to society'. i agree with this report that allows for enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction tax, since portugal, france, germany, spain, greece, italy, belgium, austria, slovakia and slovenia have sent a formal request to the european commission to be part of this same enhanced cooperation project. i think it is time to set a small tax on financial transactions, but i also think that this tax should be extended to the other member states and implemented within the g20 in order to avoid creating different competitive situations.
in writing. - as we pointed out when the directive on the introduction of the financial transaction tax was adopted, its technical characteristics and political implications, as well as the destination of the revenue to be raised from it (according to the european commission's forecasts, it could amount to eur 57 billion), give rise to our reservations. we have long advocated this tax to introduce some fiscal justice and to combat financial speculation. the european council's discussions show that the implementation of enhanced cooperation - which is needed to overcome the veto of some countries which do not even accept this fragile proposal - is not likely to deviate from the commission's proposal, which was later revised by the majority of the ep. and as regards the management of tax revenue, there is every reason to believe that the commission's and the majority of the ep's proposal to channel the revenue thus obtained to the community budget will be met with a corresponding cut in the direct contributions of the member states. such a measure would benefit the major powers and the countries with the highest gni, and would undermine the redistributive function of the budget. the urgent need to put an end to tax havens remains outside any concrete proposals.
in writing. - i approve this report, considering that the protection and welfare of animals is today, in european society, a civilization issue. it is therefore our duty as politicians to turn the way our societies feel into guidelines. however, we must not disregard the safeguards of these conditions, disregard scientific advice and also take account of certain constraints, particularly geographical ones, which peripheral and outermost regions have and which are incompatible with the introduction of the eight-hour time limit. parliament should use its common sense in exempting these regions in this report from this time-barrier which is impractical in their case.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that harmonised implementation and enforcement of animal welfare provisions are indispensable to maintain high animal welfare standards and prevent distortions in the eu market.
in writing. − the welfare of animals, the conditions under which they are fed and transported, deserves the fullest attention of european union policies. there is a direct link between animal health and human health and it is therefore imperative that the former be well treated so that this is reflected in the health of the food of every european. i believe that we must move towards the harmonization of european rules on the transport of animals.
in writing. the modern citizen is someone who is aware of his rights and who demands a higher standard of living for his quality of life. he is a careful and demanding citizen in relation to those who represent him and who have the task of looking after his interests. our quality of life is often affected by things that we don't always value, either because of lack of interest or ignorance. we have put our trust in the institutions, and rightly so, but they do not always meet the high standards of quality. the report by janusz wojciechowski on the protection of animals during transport draws our attention to aspects which sometimes escape our notice and which can make all the difference, such as tasting a good healthy beef steak or being served chicken with toxins because the bird died of asphyxiation. i believe that more important than the number of hours of transport - we must not forget the economy of the peripheral and outermost areas - are the conditions under which the animals are transported. i welcome the strengthening of the monitoring of transport conditions in order to safeguard animal welfare.
in writing. - the protection of animals during transport has been a subject of debate in the european parliament since the 1970s. we agree on the importance of ensuring the protection and welfare of animals during transport. as the report acknowledges, the transport of meat and other products derived from it is preferable to the transport of live animals for the sole purpose of being slaughtered, whether for ethical reasons or for technical reasons. it is also recognised that animals should, in principle, be slaughtered as close as possible to their place of rearing, reducing as far as possible long-distance transport. these principles are called into question by the systematic closure of farms and slaughterhouses, most of which are small, especially in the more isolated regions (the interior of portugal is a good example), concentrating them in large population centres, progressively more distant from the place of production. the existence of these essential infrastructures ensures not only better product quality but also that a greater proportion of the added value generated in the chain remains in the regions of origin, generating jobs and enhancing local production. in addition, of course, to better observance of animal welfare principles.
in writing. − between 2005 and 2009, the number of animals transported in the eu increased by 8% for cattle, 70% for pigs and 3% for sheep. one third of these trips were over 8 hours. this report approves a number of measures to improve the conditions of animals during transport. these include increased on-the-spot inspections, stronger penalties for infringers and better controls to ensure that member states comply with the rules in force. in the eu, serious problems with regard to animal welfare during transport persist, mainly due to non-compliance and poor enforcement in the member states.
in writing. − report a7-0331/2012 is a response to the european commission's report on the impact of the implementation of council regulation (ec) no 1/2005, which states that the protection of animals during transport has not affected the volume of trade within the single market. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union. the report also calls for the commission to take a more active role in the fight against fraud and for the commission to be able to take a more active role in the fight against fraud. the intention to limit the transport of animals to slaughter to a maximum of eight hours of continuous transport is economically harmful to undertakings in the sector located in the outermost regions, given the structural conditions of these regions. it is therefore necessary to apply certain derogations from the eight-hour limit to the outermost regions. in view of the foregoing, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - we agree on the importance of ensuring the protection and welfare of animals during transport. as the report acknowledges, the transport of meat and other products derived from it is preferable to the transport of live animals for the sole purpose of being slaughtered, whether for ethical reasons or for technical reasons. it is also recognised that animals should, in principle, be slaughtered as close as possible to their place of rearing, reducing as far as possible long-distance transport. these principles are being called into question by the systematic closure of farms and slaughterhouses, most of which are small. so when we talk about these matters we must have a global approach which understands how the destruction of smes can seriously undermine the objective of animal welfare which is being advocated here.
in writing. - i approve this report, which includes important references to the need for coherence in the european union's human rights policy and its own monitoring mechanism, not to mention article 7 of the lisbon treaty which gives the european institutions the power to assess whether there is a set of common values such as respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law in the member states. i think this report is positive because it supports the recent commission proposal to set up a permanent scoreboard on justice, the rule of law, democracy and fundamental rights to be included in the european semester, which i think puts more responsibility on the member states in their human rights commitments. however, i regret the delay in adopting this recommendation given the weak response of the commission to specific human rights violations and police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters as well as in respect of social and economic rights.
in writing. - human rights and fundamental freedoms are the set of values and principles that distinguish us as human beings. they are universal, indivisible and interdependent. the promotion of these rights should be an overarching objective of all eu policies. although this report contains important recommendations in the areas of combating discrimination on grounds of race, gender, disability, ethnic origin, language, religion or sexual orientation, persons belonging to minorities, migrants and refugees, the rights of the child, the rights of victims and access to justice and in the context of european citizenship, unfortunately it has been grafted onto issues relating to abortion, religious freedom and family law, which have undermined it. we must not use human rights for partisan political agendas or to overemphasize any differences. the value of this common heritage must require all of us to focus on what is common and not to disregard the principle of subsidiarity, especially since there are matters in this report which depend exclusively on the legitimate sovereign will of each member state, and that is why i voted in favour of the alternative resolution tabled by the european people's party.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with all the recommendations and comments contained in it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it urges the commission and the member states to take into account the specific needs and concerns of women when drawing up legislation and analysing the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. there is still much to be done on fundamental rights in the eu, but some important progress in this area should be highlighted, such as the introduction of gender parity and quota systems legislation in some member states.
in writing. - it is not new that a certain left is seeking to take advantage of the instruments at its disposal to promote its radical agenda by seeking to impose it through legislation. unfortunately, the european parliament has often played this role. the so-called fracturing issues are fracturing precisely because they profoundly divide the feeling of the citizens that they deserve respect. the attempt to impose a single thought on it is contrary to what the union should be. what should have been an assessment of the situation of fundamental rights in the european union has thus turned into another sterile exercise of recommendations to the member states, aimed at conditioning them and restricting the freedom of expression of their peoples. voting against is a vote in favour of democracy and human rights, pluralism of opinion, religious freedom, legal certainty and the principles of proportionality and appropriateness.
in writing. − in 2000, the european parliament, the council and the commission solemnly proclaimed the charter of fundamental rights of the european union (cdfeu), which, with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon (teu), became an integral part of the treaty. the report by monika flašíková beňová looks at the situation of fundamental rights in the eu in 2010 and 2011. in reality, it is not enough to have a euclt if citizens do not know about it or feel that these same rights are not respected. with the economic and financial crisis affecting many member states, this issue is becoming more pressing and requires continuous attention from civil society and more effective action from the institutions. the question of pay, working conditions, gender equality, the exclusion of older women, respect for minorities - especially women victims - the right to citizenship, the rights of victims, etc. are values that deserve increased attention. the enjoyment of these rights implies responsibilities and duties, both towards other persons and towards the community. i regret that the council has not agreed on the multiannual plan for the agency, which will have to be put into day-to-day management as from 1 january 2013.
in writing. − the situation of fundamental rights in the eu (2010 and 2011) is examined in this report, with reference to the charter of fundamental rights formally adopted in nice in december 2000. as we have always said, this charter falls far short of the rights guaranteed by the european convention for the protection of human rights and the european social charter, particularly as regards economic, social and cultural rights. the european union has also adopted a number of international conventions, including the universal declaration of human rights and, in the case of portugal, the constitution of the portuguese republic (which adopts the former). in view of the current structural crisis of capitalism and its impact on the people, their rights and freedoms, it is contradictory that the report calls for 'an urgent strengthening of the european mechanisms guaranteeing respect for democracy and the rule of law' when there are multiple attacks on democracy and the rule of law by the developments in the process of european capitalist integration. the position of the most reactionary sectors of parliament on issues such as abortion or freedom of sexual orientation, among others, is noted, fortunately rejected in the final version of the report.
in writing. - i voted against this report, although i consider the defence of fundamental rights to be very important, because i consider that it deals with divisive issues which have nothing to do with the defence of fundamental rights. some members of the european parliament insist on introducing these kinds of issues when they have their own forum to be dealt with, thus contributing nothing to their solution.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because it covers marriage between persons of the same sex and the possibility for them to have children under the same conditions as heterosexual couples. i believe that same-sex couples should be able to register as living together in a common-law relationship, but that marriage should remain reserved for heterosexual couples who are potentially capable of producing biological children. i also believe that assisted reproductive technologies must comply with the principle of subsidiarity, which therefore excludes same-sex couples from de facto unions.
in writing. − the union is founded on a community of values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, solidarity, the rule of law and respect for human rights, for all persons living in the territory of the european union, including those belonging to minorities, stateless persons and persons temporarily or illegally on its territory. the protection of fundamental rights should be an overarching objective of all eu policies, including in its external dimension. the obligation to protect, promote and fulfil fundamental rights requires an institutional commitment through the development and strengthening of a genuine culture around them. it is therefore necessary for the institutions to assume fully their responsibilities for the full and proper implementation of the mandate and competences of the european union in this area, in particular on the basis of the charter of fundamental rights. while it considers the report to be generally positive, it contains some controversial points which are relevant to the principle of subsidiarity. for the reasons i have given, i abstained from voting on this document.
in writing. − the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2010 and 2011) is examined in this report through the exhaustive analysis of the proper application of the charter of fundamental rights by the commission, the council and the member states. it is important to note that this charter was formally adopted in nice in december 2000 and fell far short of the rights guaranteed in the european convention for the protection of human rights and the european social charter, in particular as regards economic, social and cultural rights. in view of the current structural crisis of capitalism and its impact on the people, their rights and freedoms, it is contradictory that the report calls for 'an urgent strengthening of the european mechanisms guaranteeing respect for democracy and the rule of law' while at the same time gradually removing one of the fundamental pillars of a democratic state, its sovereignty. but if the aim of the report is to appeal for the defence of rights, it would be better if the meps of the majority in the ep did not constantly approve political lines of 'budgetary consolidation' which, in the portuguese case, call into question the rights enshrined in the constitution of the portuguese republic.
rapporteur. − mr president, i will first say a few words in english before i pass on to my mother tongue, portuguese, because i want to offer my condolences in my name, but i believe also in the name of parliament, to the family of a man who was very important for us in an unexpected way. this man died yesterday aged 97 years old. his name was albert otto hirschman, an economist – known mainly to economists but also to students of political science. he was a theoretician of development; the first economist to show that development was not growth – and i think that is interesting for our colleagues in the committee on development – but even before he wrote his main books he was an anti-fascist freedom fighter in the spanish civil war and during world war two. one of the founders, with varian fry, of the international rescue committee who together saved people like hannah arendt, max ernst, andré breton and heinrich mann and many people from intellectual and artistic circles in europe. after that, by coincidence – since he was the brother-in-law of our predecessor altiero spinelli – he was one of the first federalists and one of altiero’s great supporters in the united states when, back in the fifties, altiero was trying to convince the americans to support the idea of a transnational democratic parliament for europe, which is this chamber where we are now, so i think it is fitting that we recognise this hero of mankind and of the european project. the coherence of his life and work will, i think, give us a clue to what we are discussing here today. so i will now pass to the remainder of my speech in portuguese. senhor presidente, a coerência e a consistência, meus caros colegas, é de facto o ponto de toque dos dois relatórios que aqui discutimos, o relatório do nosso colega donskis e o meu próprio relatório, sobre a revisão estratégica das políticas de direitos humanos da união europeia. é importante que a união europeia não olhe para as suas políticas de direitos humanos como sendo um apêndice das outras políticas, mas como estando no centro de tudo o que nós queremos fazer no mundo e na própria união europeia. trazendo as políticas de direitos humanos para o centro, nós beneficiaremos não só os países terceiros onde muitas vezes os direitos humanos precisam ainda de ser respeitados, mas também os nossos próprios concidadãos europeus, não só em matérias de trabalho e ambientais, mas também de direitos fundamentais. essa é a segunda questão. a união europeia não pode continuar a não ser crítica em relação a si própria quando a crise económica, e não só a crise económica, mas más políticas e má governança dentro da união europeia também violam no nosso território os direitos fundamentais dos cidadãos europeus. portanto, creio que nesta casa todos estaremos de acordo. votámos hoje o relatório da nossa colega flašíková sobre direitos fundamentais. a união europeia só pode ser credível para o exterior se for crítica em relação àquilo que se passa dentro das suas portas, se for crítica, fidedigna e verdadeira. para isso, também teremos de arrumar melhor a nossa casa. esse é um terceiro aspeto deste relatório. nós votamos por ano dezenas de resoluções que condenam governos de países terceiros pela violação de direitos humanos, às vezes não condenando veementemente o que se passa no nosso próprio território, outras vezes não fazendo o necessário acompanhamento das resoluções que aqui votamos. é muito importante que a comissão, o serviço de ação externa, o representante especial stavros lambrinidis, que está aqui hoje, e o conselho, façam o acompanhamento das resoluções que são aqui votadas. nós instamos a comissão a propor legislação que obrigue, por exemplo, as empresas da união europeia a garantir que as suas aquisições não apoiam causadores de conflitos nem apoiam violações graves dos direitos humanos. precisamos de garantir que nem mais um cêntimo dos impostos do contribuinte europeu vai para estas empresas. pedimos que seja estabelecida uma parceria efetiva entre a união europeia e as sociedades civis dos países terceiros, em particular criando uma convenção euro-árabe da juventude para unir as duas margens do mediterrâneo. segundo uma ideia que vem do nosso próprio representante especial, adicionarei uma emenda amanha para uma convenção interparlamentar de mulheres dos parlamentos europeus e do outro lado do mediterrâneo, dos parlamentos árabes. nós precisamos de aprender, evidentemente, com os erros da primavera árabe, mas precisamos também de aprender com os nossos próprios erros de ligação interinstitucional aqui e, esse é outro dos aspetos do relatório, precisamos de arrumar a nossa própria casa do parlamento em relação à discussão de resoluções de urgência, que têm muitas vezes pouca assiduidade por parte dos deputados e que têm mais uma vez pouco acompanhamento, o que é um aspeto muito importante. agradeço a todos os colegas que colaboraram neste relatório e estou pronto para as vossas perguntas.
mr president, i congratulate mr donskis and mr rui tavares on their comprehensive reports, each of which, in its own way, seeks to respond to the need to create synergies between all the instruments and policies of the european union in order to make action in defence of human rights more coherent and effective, in support of all those who are silenced, arrested, tortured, repressed or exploited elsewhere in the world. we have a responsibility to force the light into the holes of physical and other prisons, as costa gavras stressed today when awarding the sakharov prize to jafar panahi and nasrin sotoudeh. but six months after the european union adopted its new human rights strategy, it is clear that much more needs to be done. in no other region is the credibility of european action tested more than in the arab neighbourhood, where people and women in particular are standing up for dignity, fundamental rights and freedoms. it is therefore not understandable that the union is slow to promote referral of the murderous regime in syria to the international criminal court. i also hope that the appointment of my colleague, stavros lambrinidis, will lead to a more coherent policy of the european union towards strategic partners such as china and russia. strategic partnerships have a global impact. otherwise, we won't even get respect. but also in relation to other countries, including those which are recipients of development aid from the european union and which are linked to it, for example by the cotonou agreement, with human rights obligations, it is scandalous that the european union continues to weigh in on two scales, silent and unconcerned about systematic human rights violations. ethiopia is one such example. in the european union's development policies, as in trade, energy or global security policies, it is imperative that the european union's action be intelligently shaped by the fine lens of human rights and the promotion of democracy. it is therefore unacceptable that human rights should be made invisible in lady ashton's visits, as has recently happened in kazakhstan, as has already been noted here. the european union cannot rely on the most superficial human rights standards. i therefore end by stressing, as other colleagues have done, the message of albert ishman, that interests and values should not be pitted against each other. human rights define the european union and define european interests and therefore absolutely have to guide all its internal and external policies.
the rapporteur. - mrs kozakou-marcoullis, i will be very direct. i do not like the expression silver thread, the silver thread that is now so much talked about. human rights are not a silver lining in the union's policy, they are article 2 of the union treaties. the first article says that a european union is established, the second says that the european union is based on human rights. they're our foundation, they're our foundation, they're not a purely decorative silver thread like in that conversation of people who have had a near-death experience and see a silver thread. i hope it's not like that. i hope not, because in that case you should, because you quoted directly from mrs ashton's speech in kazakhstan, i must say, i did not want to quote that speech here because that speech was shameful in terms of human rights. in that speech, i have it here, you talked about enhanced cooperation with kazakhstan, support for kazakhstan's entry into the world trade organization, neighborly relations, and then, at the end, i will quote in english: of course, the nobel prize gives us special responsibilities. i was very pleased to hear you speak on the syrian issue, because i believe that the cypriot presidency plays a very important role. the presidency of the council is almost over, but cyprus is the only country in the european union which has a maritime border with syria. cyprus is an hour's drive from syria. cyprus must, as from january, when the cypriot presidency ends and it returns to the council table as an equal member, propose to the european union the establishment of a humanitarian corridor between syria and cyprus, provided that the other countries of the european union turn around the migratory and refugee flows that will come there with solidarity, as your country has asked, and with responsibility-sharing, as we have asked here in the european parliament many times. we cannot continue with european companies doing profitable business with authoritarian regimes with impunity, without incurring any sanctions, we cannot continue with trade deals being made without impact assessments and we cannot continue with european banks like hsbc yesterday, deutsche bank today, being caught laundering money from dictatorships. as long as the european union is not coherent, it has no credibility. i would like to thank my colleagues from the various political groups who have been rapporteurs in the shadow of this report, and i would also like to thank in particular mychelle rieu and levente csaszi, as advisers on behalf of the green group and the secretariat, and the rapporteur, mrs cresson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection. i also want to say that it is important that the country moves forward with economic liberalisation and in support of civil society and human rights. we will continue to work closely with kazakhstan as we move forward into the future. that was all on human rights. we cannot continue with european banks like hsbc yesterday, deutsche bank today, being caught laundering money from dictatorships. as long as the european union is not coherent, it has no credibility. finally, i would like to thank my colleagues from the various political groups who have been rapporteurs in the shadow of this report, and in particular mychelle rieu and levente csaszi, as advisers on behalf of the green group and the secretariat of the subcommittee on human rights, and to thank the special representative, mr stravos lambrinidis, for the good ideas he has already given for this report. but i hope that the council and the commission and the foreign office do not think that they are going to outsource human rights to our former colleague stravos lambrinidis, who we know is active and creative, and then continue to give us such weak speeches in terms of human rights as mrs ashton gave us in kazakhstan and please do not cite him as a good example. it was a bad example and we noticed it, we saw it.
on behalf of the gue/ngl group, president morsi and the muslim brotherhood are appropriating the popular process of the arab spring to re-establish autocratic power mechanisms. the recent attempts to control the judiciary, followed by a recourse to the armed forces, whose powers should be contained within a system of political democracy, are signs of a worrying presidential tendency to control power. the way the president and the muslim brotherhood have responded to the recent popular protest has reinforced fears of the establishment of an autocratic system with military backing. this possibility became even more evident in the way the armed forces were involved in the repression of protesters. by authorizing the armed forces to detain civilians who stand out in opposition to the constitutional referendum, the morsi government has set a dangerous precedent. there seems to be a backsliding in the control of the judiciary, but not in the intention to have a constitution quickly adopted by referendum, which was drawn up in 19 days in a way that does not reflect the social and political diversity of the country. it is worth remembering that morsi did not reach 25% in the first round of the presidential elections, with two more candidates with votes above 20% and two others with votes above 10%. this dispersion of votes by several candidates would justify a constitutional work that reflected it. that's not what's happening, and from a hopeful spring, let's hope egypt doesn't plunge into another dark winter. the people of egypt and the opposition deserve our support.
egypt faces a dangerous setback in the timid steps taken in the democratic transition. president morsi, the judicial establishment that served the dictatorship, and the armed forces are taking on roles incompatible with a democratic path. the president made a mistake. in order to get out of the crisis, it must listen to the egyptian people and dialogue with all the democratic forces that are emerging from it, in particular those protesting in tahrir square against a draft constitution which does not offer democratic guarantees consistent with the rule of law, which does not ensure the protection of the fundamental rights and freedoms claimed by the majority of the population, especially women, and by religious and other minorities. the referendum process hastily launched is questionable and questioned, it does nothing to assert the legitimacy of the presidency and the constitution. we must prevent the return of autocracy in egypt, we must prevent a plunge into religious intolerance that will condemn egypt to economic collapse, to political obscurantism. we must prevent the generals from seizing power again under the pretext of maintaining order and protecting civilians. in europe, we know from our own experience that democratic transitions take time and are never free from dangers and setbacks. we want a democratic egypt, which is an actor for peace and security in the region, and this implies that the egyptian leadership fulfills the promises of democracy and freedom because so many brave egyptians have already died. and that is why the european union's neighbourhood policy, under the slogan more for more, must clearly support those who are fighting for democracy in egypt and demand that president morsi and his supporters respect egypt's international obligations, including the human rights of all egyptians.
on behalf of the s&d group. the israeli occupation and settlement expansion in the west bank violates international law, but the recent announcement of plans to build 3,000 more housing units in an area that cuts across the west bank is a grossly retaliatory provocation to palestine and a real defeat for israel itself because it aims to prevent the resumption of peace talks, the only way to achieve the security that israel aspires to. that means living side by side and cooperating with a palestinian state, a state which can only be responsible and functional if it is viable. europe must act alongside israel at the un wherever necessary. the illegal occupation and colonization of palestine must have consequences for the cooperation relations between the european union and israel, as must the announced tax withholdings aimed at jeopardizing the survival of the palestinian authority. the european union must also send a clear message to hamas: the state of israel is a fact, there is no turning back. the statements made by khaled meshaal in gaza in recent days are unacceptable, inflammatory and do not contribute to peace or to safeguarding the interests of the palestinian people, who are concerned with the construction of a palestinian state alongside israel.
the european union must continue to take in syrian exiles, and the countries must do so in the best possible conditions, by providing humanitarian solidarity. however, we would also like to say that it would be a real help to the syrian people to make it possible for them not to have to leave their country, to live in peace, a peace which only political dialogue can build. and we ask, what help can the european union give to foster political dialogue in syria? a lot. if many of their countries, like france and england, their allies, like the united states of america, turkey, israel and the feudal monarchies of the gulf, did not intervene in the country, extinguished and engineered the conflict, did not arm and fund and train armed groups, it would make a great contribution to the construction of peace in syria, to the construction of a future that only the syrians can decide. it would be very important not to support al qaeda, to stop immediately the barbaric drone attacks being carried out in the territory of yemen and pakistan, it would be important not to promote religious extremism and exploit ethnic sectarian divisions for fratricidal purposes. finally, it would be important to take your hands off syria and let the syrian people build their future sovereignly.
mr president, vice-president reding, ladies and gentlemen, since 2007 the fundamental rights agency has been making a significant contribution to strengthening the protection of fundamental rights and to increasing the coherence and cohesion of the european union's human rights policy. unlike other voices which have spoken out in defaming the agency's intervention, i want to stress its very positive role. the first multiannual framework of the agency is due to expire at the end of 2012 and sets out the thematic areas that should guide the work of the agency. by way of exception, the agency may develop activities outside these thematic areas provided that its financial and human resources allow it to do so. the european parliament has been calling for a strengthening of the powers and budget of the agency for the last few years, and we therefore welcome the proposal put forward by the commission for the new multiannual framework for 2013-17. the commission has rightly proposed that the thematic areas be extended to police and judicial cooperation, which, as we know, is a highly sensitive area with regard to human rights. like commissioner reding, i regret that the council has placed so many obstacles in the way of this strengthening of the protection of the fundamental rights of the european union, in particular the inclusion of police and judicial protection. i agree with our colleague tatjana ždanoka, whom i congratulate on her excellent work, that we cannot wait to try to reach the best compromise, because that would jeopardise the continuity of the agency's work. i also regret that we are once again witnessing the nonsense of the unanimity rule. in this case it was the united kingdom which refused to vote and in doing so blocked the adoption of the new multiannual framework, endangering the continuity of the agency's work. the same united kingdom which, in budgetary matters and in the area of justice and home affairs, has shown a disastrous anti-european protagonism.
a writer. - mr president, looking ahead to the economic situation of the economic and monetary union in 2013 is an exercise that must be done with truth and objectivity. self-justification and ideology cannot overcome the toughness of numbers. since 2008 we have been trying to combat the crisis and since 2010 strong policies of so-called consolidation and discipline are being applied, particularly violently, in the weakest economies. we've got results today. the forecast a year earlier was for greece to grow by 0,7% in 2011. it ended with a recession of -6.9%. portugal has scrupulously complied with the troika's recommendations, with growth expected to be 0.7% in 2011. it ended with a recession of -1.7%. as we predicted two years ago, synchronised austerity policies, covering countries with surpluses by choice and deficit countries by obligation, do not generate fiscal consolidation. they set off a general recessive spiral. little by little, even the strongest economies are slowing down and the eurozone, which this year was expecting growth of 0.5%, will end the year in full recession, with a loss of wealth of -0.4%. unemployment affects 25 million citizens, young people are desperate and, in the face of constant errors in forecasts, citizens do not believe that the sacrifices are worthwhile. enough experimentation, first of all, we must change the speech of sin in some and virtue in others. we all now recognise that there are missing pieces in the architecture of economic and monetary union. we are on the way to fulfilling them, but we must draw the appropriate conclusions from this fact and this observation. one of them is that the budgetary consolidation formula, while this architecture is not fundamentally revised, must itself be revised, the consolidation deadlines must be extended, budgetary consolidation must be done. but it must be realistic, made with interest rates reduced to the bare minimum and which do not include remuneration for those who finance the countries. when an economy goes into recession, the dose of austerity has to be adjusted, it has to be reduced, and european legislation allows that to be done. today we recognize that credit is not reaching the real economy, that the european union lacks an industrial policy, that it lacks a review of an external trade policy appropriate to the globalised world in which we live, and that all this must be done with balance, account and measure. my last words are an appeal, an appeal not to be fooled by speeches or policies which seek to justify what has been done. the situation is too serious and this seriousness, the unemployment, the loss of prospects, requires us to seriously review the recipes we have been following.
he asks under the blue card procedure. mr. schwab, i just wanted to ask you: does it not recognise that germany's surpluses are also the result of the fact that its currency does not appreciate because it is linked to that of the weaker countries when their surpluses increase? do you agree that german domestic demand was largely fuelled by debt which germany provided to the peripheral countries? or do you consider the surpluses you accumulate to be the result of german virtue?
mr president, madam vice-president of the commission, first of all i would like to welcome the continuing effort, both in terms of the speech and in terms of the measures, which the commission has put into the growth strategy. the commission has certainly always stressed the need to give priority to growth and has, in fact, sought to have a strategy in this direction through some of the measures proposed. but i would like to emphasize one point here: the growth strategy that is being drawn up, and which is well drawn up up until 2020, is a strategy for the whole of the european union, but at the moment the countries that are under adjustment and other countries at risk are in an extremely difficult situation from the point of view of their economies. i think the effort they are making in public finances is welcome and a good effort, but they need additional help for growth, that is to say, our growth strategy must be a comprehensive strategy for the european union. but there must be some special measures here focused on growth in countries that are trying to get their public accounts in order. so that is the warning i would leave here: the need to consider the reality of greece, portugal, ireland, countries like cyprus, slovenia, spain and italy, which need at this moment to look more closely at their situation in terms of growth, not to abandon the strategy of correcting public finances, but in terms of growth. and by the way, i'd like to ask two fundamental questions: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the european investment bank is able to meet its financial commitments.
mr president, as much as we try to convince ourselves that by magic budgetary consolidation policies will turn into economic growth, the truth is that this does not happen because we are talking about two contradictory concepts. reputable economists are tired of saying that public investment and the consumer capacity of citizens are necessary to promote growth. but above all, reality demonstrates it day by day and demonstrates it dramatically through the suffering of european families. the example of portugal is exemplary: cuts in pensions, subsidies, wages, social support, social suffocation. it not only creates more social injustice, it just sinks the economy. portugal recorded the largest fall in retail sales in the european union, a year-on-year decline of almost 10%. the consequence: the daily destruction of small and mediumsized enterprises and of some 600 jobs a day, which means that everything must be reversed, that we must industrialize, put the strategic productive sectors at the service of the economy, raise wages and pensions and stop transferring the wealth of workers to the financial sector. the question is: will the commission, the council and the majority of parliament agree to this course and vote in accordance with it or not?
mr president, i would like to dedicate this vote on a report that strives for coherence and consistency in our human rights policy to the life and memory of albert otto hirschman, who died this week at the age of 97. he was a development economist and worked on the marshall plan in europe and in latin america. his work was highly relevant for this parliament. he was born in berlin and he escaped nazism. he helped many people escape nazism, working with varian fry in marseille. they saved people like hannah arendt, max ernst, andré breton and heinrich mann. coincidentally, he was the brother-in-law of our illustrious predecessor altiero spinelli. hirschman was spinelli’s main supporter in the united states when in the 1950s spinelli was striving for a transnational chamber of elected meps. (mixed reactions)i think that our colleagues on the far right who actually owe their salaries to the work of altiero spinelli and are being elected should listen! (applause)i also think that we should strive … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, this amendment was the object of a consensus by the political groups after a proposal by stavros lambrinidis, our special representative on human rights. it reads: ‘calls on the establishment of a women’s interparliamentary euro-arab convention’.
mr president, this is the last oral amendment: ‘asks the commission to produce and make public a list of eu companies which have been directly complicit in human rights violations in their dealings with authoritarian regimes’. this is not a list of all companies, but only those which have directly violated human rights.
mr president, our colleague kinga gál is absolutely right. there was a mix-up in the list that i had, so i would suggest – to make it very clear – that we have this vote first on the list of companies which violate human rights, paragraph 43. then, if we could repeat the vote on the women’s interparliamentary eu-arab convention, paragraph 70. so, first a list of companies, then the women’s interparliamentary meeting. i apologise for my confusion.
in writing. − i approve this report, considering it necessary to adopt swiftly in 2012 the multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights for 2013-2017. i regret that the council has not reached a consensus to incorporate cooperation in judicial and criminal matters, which since the treaty of lisbon has been part of european union law. i think this indecision is worrying, because if it is not adopted now, the multiannual framework will not be decided until mid-april. to complement my position, i think it is essential to extend the scope of the agency's activities so that we can follow the path we have set for the future of the european union. although there is no commitment from the council on these matters, i think it is essential, nevertheless, to adopt this financial framework in 2012 so that this agency can continue its activity on a regular basis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the multiannual framework of the european union agency for fundamental rights for the period 2013-2017 can and should be improved and that the areas of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters should be included in the list of thematic areas.
in writing. - the production of metal products is intended for many manufacturing industries which, due to globalisation and the economic and financial crisis, have been particularly affected. this has meant less demand and less capacity to maintain production and labour levels, and reduced the number of workers in their service. in spain, the production of the sector fell by 24,6% and the production of metal products fell by 23,3% in 2009 when compared to the previous year. in the basque country, 1,106 redundancies in 423 companies gave rise to the application for the fund which we are now examining. the province of biscay was the most affected by redundancies in this sector, accounting for 57% of the total number of redundancies. i support their mobilization, as i have done in other cases, and i am concerned about the spread of these applications in the various countries which indicate the generalization of the crisis, and i hope that the european union and the member states will have the ingenuity and the art and the appropriate institutional architecture to reverse this worrying situation, which has no obvious end in sight for the time being.
in writing. − tatjana ždanoka presents us with a recommendation on the draft council decision establishing a multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra) for the period 2013 to 2017. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union states in article 1 that 'the dignity of the human being is inviolable'. it must be respected and protected. as this is the flag of the european union (eu), it is essential that the institution responsible for monitoring compliance with this principle in the member states be equipped with the means to operate. adfue has done commendable work, particularly in the integration of the roma community and against discrimination against gays, lesbians, bisexuals, transsexuals and transgender people (lgbt). the proposed multiannual framework for the five-year period 2013-2017 is proving difficult to negotiate because the council, instead of accepting the inclusion of new areas such as the monitoring of the rights of persons with disabilities, intends to reduce competences.
in writing. − a coherent and consistent policy in the defence, promotion and enhancement of fundamental rights is developed in a transversal way and should preside over all policy actions and proposals. but the eu's actions and policies are the opposite of this logic, and run counter to the interests and aspirations of workers and people, as the situation in portugal today shows. these are policies that infringe on the fundamental rights of citizens, in particular the rights contained in the universal declaration of human rights and, in the case of portugal, the rights enshrined in the constitution of the republic (which adopts the former). the eu charter of fundamental rights, when compared with these two documents, has a restrictive and impoverished view of these rights. the definition of the thematic areas for the agency's work programmes expresses a very minimalistic view of what fundamental rights are. it expresses a hierarchical and separating view of civil liberties and social rights, in order to weaken and manipulate the indivisible and universal character of fundamental rights. it advocates a minimalist "democracy" based on formal processes and stripped of effective informed and enlightened participation, disregarding national sovereignty and the right of peoples to self-determination.
in writing. − this report aims to approve the new multiannual framework for the eu fundamental rights agency for the period 2013-2017. multiple stakeholders were involved in the consultation process during the preparation of the new multiannual framework. from july to september 2011, all the bodies participating in the platform for fundamental rights were consulted, namely 108 bodies. most bodies support the work of the agency in the current thematic areas and the continuation of its activities, in particular in the areas of discrimination, asylum and migration, racism and xenophobia and access to justice. there was strong support for the agency's future work in the field of social rights and social security. several bodies have highlighted, amongst the additional areas to be prioritised, the rights of persons with disabilities and the importance of intensifying work in the policy areas of the former 'third pillar'. that is why i am voting in favour.
in writing. − the european union agency for fundamental rights started its work on 1 march 2007. the multiannual framework presented is not very ambitious. i voted in favour of this report which asks the commission to assess and propose the revision of the agency's tasks, areas of activity and working methods for 2013 in order to ensure effective monitoring and implementation of the eu charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. − the multiannual framework of the eu fundamental rights agency expires at the end of 2012, and it is therefore necessary to determine the thematic areas of the agency's activity by defining a framework for this purpose, which provides for the work programme. i agree with the proposal for the future multiannual framework, where the rapporteur not only proposes to continue current efforts in the areas of discrimination, asylum and migration, racism and xenophobia, but also considers the introduction of access to justice and, in this respect, the inclusion of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the list of thematic areas of the multiannual framework of fundamental rights. the council should therefore be urged to explicitly declare the inclusion of these areas in the agency's framework of intervention in order to ensure the full protection of fundamental rights in the eu as provided for in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − on 15 february 2007, the council adopted regulation (ec) no 168/2007 which established the european union agency for fundamental rights. the agency started its operations on 1 march 2007. the current multiannual framework expires at the end of 2012. this proposal aims to establish the multiannual framework of the agency for the period 2013 to 2017 as provided for in article 5 of the regulation. in the coming period, the agency needs to focus on new thematic areas to ensure the continuity of its activities. the european parliament therefore expects the commission to assess and propose a revision of the agency's tasks, areas of activity and working methods for 2013 in order to ensure effective monitoring and implementation of the charter of fundamental rights. in addition, the council will need to give its consent to the inclusion of the areas of police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the list of thematic areas. for these reasons, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - we do not share the concept of fundamental rights which is associated with eu policy in this area, namely the eu charter of fundamental rights, and which enshrines a loss of rights compared to that laid down in the constitution of the portuguese republic. we do not share the need or the political assumptions for the creation of an eu fundamental rights agency. in our view, a coherent and consistent policy for the defence, promotion and enhancement of fundamental rights is developed in a transversal way and should preside over all political actions and proposals. the action and proposal of the majority of the ep, as well as of the eu in general, are at the opposite end of this logic, deepening more and more policies which are contrary to the interests and aspirations of the workers and the people as evidenced in the situation in portugal. the definition of the thematic areas for the agency's work programmes expresses a very minimalistic view of what fundamental rights are. it expresses a hierarchical and separating view of civil liberties and social rights, in order to weaken and manipulate the indivisible and universal character of fundamental rights. it advocates a minimalist "democracy" based on formal processes and stripped of national sovereignty and the right of peoples to self-determination.
in writing. - i support this report because i support the distinction between written statements which are not legislative in nature and written statements which have a major impact or concern an interesting or important solution. i think it should be clear to parliament that the primary focus must be on its legislative role, and obviously, as is already the case under european law, statements on non-legislative proposals can be used to initiate a legislative proposal, as under the right of initiative that the european parliament has, with at least 10 members from three political groups.
in writing. i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the amendments to rules 123 and 42 of parliament's rules of procedure.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur's proposal to restrict the possibility of members making written statements. i do not deny the usefulness of statements, but i think their use should be rationalised and the terms in which they can be effectively promoted better defined. if this figure made sense in a house devoid of significant legislative powers, i believe it will do much less today, given the current wide and diverse framework of european parliamentary powers, which must be fully exercised by its members. i therefore welcome this initiative to define better the contours of a regimental figure which, for the most part, had no practical consequences and i hope that this definition will strengthen its future effectiveness and importance.
in writing. - the european union (eu) is an area of peace, freedom, justice and democracy. among the european institutions, the european parliament, given its pluralism, is the one in which citizens place their greatest trust. it is not surprising, then, that the committee on petitions has been successful. the report under discussion, drawn up by rafał trzaskowski on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, concerns the amendment of rule 123 (written declarations) and rule 42 (initiative pursuant to article 225 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament. the european parliament (ep) whose members are elected by direct universal suffrage has seen its powers extended, particularly since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon (teu), thanks to the new co-decision methodology, which allows it to influence the decision-making process within the eu. meps can use written statements to defend the interests of their constituents, the best way for a member to ask the european institutions and their bodies for explanations.
in writing. - the possibility of a written statement 'being delivered by a maximum of five members' being replaced by the possibility of it being delivered 'by a minimum of 10 members from at least three political groups' is a loss of a right of members and groups like ours. the loss of democratic rights is something we must strongly criticise and vote against. to withdraw the members' powers of intervention is to withdraw the power of intervention and political action of the people who elected them. and to force at least 10 members of parliament from at least three political groups to submit a written declaration is a blatant attempt to reconcile the irreconcilable (class) interests of the different political groups. these amendments seek above all to condition the action of political groups which, like ours, are the bearers of proposals which are truly alternative to this eu of big capital and the big powers. step by step, the majority of the ep is creating rules that limit or prevent the action of our group, limit or prevent the democratic right of the representatives of the interests of the workers, to eliminate contradictions and impose the agenda of interests of the eu monopolies.
in writing. − the adoption of this report is intended to propose amendments to the presentation of written declarations and legislative initiatives. we hope that these amendments will give greater impact and visibility to such initiatives, which are mostly concerned with matters of public interest.
in writing. - written declarations have a very limited impact on both the agendas and the decisions taken by the institutions and can give a misleading impression of their effectiveness. in addition, some of the issues addressed in the written declarations do not have parliamentary dignity, and sometimes they seem to be more aimed at self-promotion to the detriment of the european construction project than they should be a separate instrument. however, when used properly, they continue to be valuable as a tool of popular campaigning. proposals calling for legislative action give each member an opportunity to influence union legislation and to incorporate a particular proposal into the work of parliamentary committees. i voted in favour of this report, which amends the rules of procedure of the european parliament to make written declarations and proposals for legislation more effective.
in writing. − while it is true that written declarations retain some usefulness, the truth is that, in the face of the increase in the strengthening of the european parliament's powers and the recent introduction of the european union citizens' initiative, their importance is considerably diminished. in this respect, the introduction of these amendments to the rules of procedure, which are essentially aimed at restricting their use and ensuring that they are properly handled and followed up by the institutions to which they are addressed, is to be welcomed. in particular, the amendments to rule 123 (1) of the rules of procedure are noteworthy, which set more stringent requirements for the submission of written statements (minimum of 10 members from at least three political groups) and specify that such statements must concern matters of exclusive competence of the eu and cannot call for legislative action, contain decisions on matters for which the rules of procedure provide specific procedures and competence and/or address matters relating to procedures already in progress.
in writing. - the possibility of a written statement 'being delivered by a maximum of five members' being replaced by the possibility of it being delivered 'by a minimum of 10 members from at least three political groups' is a loss of a right of members and groups like ours. the loss of democratic rights is something we must strongly criticise and vote against. to withdraw the members' powers of intervention is to withdraw the power of intervention and political action of the people who elected them. and to force at least 10 members of parliament from at least three political groups to submit a written declaration is a blatant attempt to reconcile the irreconcilable (class) interests of the different political groups. these amendments seek above all to condition the action of political groups which, like ours, are the bearers of proposals which are truly alternative to this eu of big capital and the big powers. this is how democracy within the rules of the ep has various conditions and limitations which the majority of this parliament corroborates and elaborates.
in writing. − i approve this report, welcoming the contributions made to the need to strengthen the european union's human rights policy and to speak with one voice, the promotion of key parameters in the framework of industrial relations under free trade agreements, greater control over exports, transfers, stock exchanges and transit of dual-use items. i also agree with the direction to call on member states to put an end to discrimination and intolerance in all areas, including gender, race, age or sexual orientation, religion or belief. finally, the protection of the rights of women and children must be given priority in european policies. despite these advances, i think that more can be done, notably in the areas of trade unions, the role of the european union after a high status at the united nations, the need for the european union to speak with one voice, the establishment of regional human rights offices and the prevention of maternal morbidity and mortality.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the report as a whole and with its particular recommendations and observations.
in writing. - it is very important that the european parliament does not give up its assessment of democracy and human rights in the world and of the european union's action, and that it is as objective as possible. the european union has played a decisive role in promoting these values, demonstrating that it does not only want to ensure that they are respected internally, but rather that it believes in their non-blocking character and the need to ensure that they are also adopted and pursued externally in order to ensure freedom, security and the right to expression and political participation for other populations and to abandon the death penalty and torture. the calls for coherence in the policies developed, for efficiency in action and for the good use of human and material resources in their service are not new. i believe that much remains to be done, but that significant steps are being taken to ensure improved results. the union delegations in third countries are of fundamental importance in this respect. i regret that the rapporteur has used his position to advocate policies which are not even consensual in european terms.
in writing. - respect for human rights has been the issue most addressed by this parliament, which does not hesitate to condemn, whether in europe or in any other part of the world, all those who violate these rights. the european parliament (ep) has been publishing reports on this subject for more than ten years. the european parliament has adopted several resolutions condemning the agreement, and in all cooperation agreements with third countries where these rights are not respected or where there is suspicion of a breach, a safeguard clause is always included providing for the denunciation of the agreement for disregard of human rights and the primacy of democracy. i would like to commend the work done by the commission in this area, in particular the work of the high representative of the european union for foreign affairs and security policy and vice-president of the european commission, catherine ashton, who has been involved in contacts in the defence of human rights and the implementation of democracy in the world. despite this effort by the eu, much remains to be done. as an example, i refer to the cases of the civil war in syria, the conflict between palestine and israel, the lack of respect for minorities, the existence of the death penalty, etc.
in writing. - in our parliamentary intervention, we have frequently denounced the apparent contradiction between the recurrent discourse of the eu and its institutions, which seem to be concerned with human rights, and the instrumental character they attribute to it, with a view to the implementation of a policy of neo-colonial contours. a policy of exploitation of labour and domination of markets and natural resources. let the people of libya, syria, iraq and afghanistan say so, who are seeing their countries destroyed and their living conditions increasingly degraded by military aggression that hypocritically invokes democracy, the 'responsibility to protect' and the 'defence of human rights'. let the workers and the portuguese people say so, who feel the brutal violence of the policy being imposed on them, being denied their right to work, education, health and housing. the instruments referred to in the report are not new. the intention is to give them greater articulation and effectiveness in denying the right of peoples to progress, social justice, peace and self-determination. if necessary, by imposing collaborative schemes with eu interests.
in writing. − the annual report on human rights and democracy should be an important tool for communicating the eu's work in this area and help to improve the visibility of eu action in this area. it would be important in the future that the hr/vp, when preparing future annual reports, actively and systematically consult parliament and report back to parliament on how parliament's resolutions have been taken into account. the adoption of the eu strategic framework on human rights on 25 june 2012 was important. it is now time for the eu institutions to work together to ensure its proper implementation and thus credibly deliver on the commitment enshrined in the eu treaty to pursue external policies based on human rights, democratic values and the rule of law, with respect for the principles, without any doubt of the eu's important role in the world.
in writing. − the development of a strong and vibrant civil society is a crucial factor in enabling democratic development and better protection of human rights. the eu has supported its policy in this challenge. i voted in favour of this report, which i note as a recognition of the eu's efforts to improve support for civil society organisations and the european union's capacity to directly engage civil society through the european instrument for democracy and human rights (eidhr).
in writing. − the european parliament welcomed the adoption of the eu annual report on human rights and democracy in the world in 2011, which it sees as an important tool for communicating and making the eu's work in this area visible. the support for eu action in the united nations and eu policy on international criminal justice and the fight against impunity is noteworthy. in addition, the union's action in the field of humanitarian law, the european neighbourhood policy and support for democratization and elections are mentioned. human rights dialogues with third countries, as well as human rights and democracy clauses in eu agreements, freedom of expression and thought, religion, conscience or belief, and eu support for civil society and human rights defenders are also addressed in the document. the eu action against the death penalty, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment, against discrimination against women and children in situations of armed conflict, and for the rights of women and children are also mentioned. i therefore voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - the difference between this report and the one that was made a year ago is the dose of hypocrisy and interference which, as the crisis in the eu worsened, became even greater, more evident and with new contours and aggressiveness. the contradictions between the discourse of the majority of the ep and the eu, which is apparently concerned with human rights, and its instrumental role in the implementation of an increasingly neo-colonial policy aimed at the exploitation of labour and the domination of markets and natural resources, are glaring. let the people of libya, syria, iraq and afghanistan say so, who see their countries destroyed and their living conditions increasingly degraded by military aggression hypocritically invoking democracy, the 'responsibility to protect' and the 'defence of human rights'. let the workers and the portuguese people say so, who feel the brutal violence of the policy being imposed on them, being denied their right to work, education, health and housing. the instruments referred to in the report are not new, but are intended to make them more articulated and effective in denying the right of peoples to self-determination.
in writing. − i approve this report and welcome the strategic framework and action plan, which aims to improve the effectiveness and consistency of the european union's human rights policy. i would also like to stress the role of the european parliament in its implementation, with its new role in the context of the reformulation of this policy and its strategic framework. i believe that the strategic framework should insist on the universality of human rights, the promotion of human rights in the european union's external policies and their implementation, and the union's future work with bilateral partners, in multinational institutions and in its own institutions to promote human rights. i also think that we should learn from past lessons, such as the arab spring, which demonstrated the ineffectiveness of the european union's foreign policy and the clear need to involve more actors and players in its dialogues and negotiations, in addition to the official authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that: the universal human rights and freedoms as set out in the universal declaration of human rights apply to all human beings, irrespective of any circumstance or situation, religion or belief, sex, racial or ethnic origin, age, disability, sexual orientation and gender identity; the strategic framework and the action plan form the basis of the eu's human rights policy; eu member states must take a firm and coherent approach to human rights violations worldwide.
in writing. − the member states of the european union have a long experience of implementing and defending human rights. the european union must take advantage of this experience and ensure that its positions do not conflict with the concrete legal systems of the member states, let alone that certain interpretations of human rights are used to subvert or condition them. that said, i believe that the greatest possible consistency is needed in the way european policies and actions on this subject are perceived externally and that it is advantageous to have closer coordination with the member states when designing and implementing them. the creation of the post of european union special representative for human rights could play an important role in this. the european union must put human rights at the heart of its external action. it will benefit from being developed in close contact with those on the ground who promote its agenda without such contact implying confusion of roles or reciprocal instrumentalisation.
in writing. - "the dignity of the human being is inviolable. it must be respected and protected.' human rights are at the heart of the creation of the european union (eu). the recognition we have achieved in the world, embodied in the award of the nobel peace prize 2012, makes us even more responsible. not only within the eu, but also beyond our borders. we cannot remain indifferent to reports of certain human rights violations, such as the use of the death penalty, female genital mutilation, women who are divorced and stoned for committing adultery, honour killings and the persecution of ethnic and religious minorities. i therefore welcome the appointment of a human rights representative, and i wish him the best possible performance.
in writing. − this report on the review of the eu's human rights strategy does not, unfortunately, avoid the eu's traditional instrumental and restrictive approach to human rights issues. it is instrumental because it often invokes human rights to justify the pursuit of economic, political and geostrategic objectives and because it is based on a hypocritical policy of double standards, as was made clear this week with the approval of the agreement with colombia or as is clear in the face of complacency and complicity in the systematic violations of human rights committed by the state of israel. just to give two examples. restrictive because it gives rise to a hierarchical view of human rights, with the division between civil liberties and social rights, which results in a regression in the universal and indivisible character of the human rights it claims to defend. despite the mild and even mystifying references to the internal situation of the eu countries, the lack of criticism of the imposition of the ongoing civilizational regression in the eu prevails.
in writing. − the eu is founded on the principle of respect for human rights and has a legal obligation, laid down in its treaties, to ensure that all eu and member state policies, without exception, as well as all international agreements, focus on human rights. dialogues between the eu, its member states and third countries must be preceded by concrete measures designed to ensure that human rights remain at the heart of eu policies. despite the crisis we are going through, we cannot forget that the defence of human rights is part of the eu's dna.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the eu action plan on human rights and democracy, as a concrete manifestation of the eu's commitment and responsibility, and the appointment of an eu special representative for human rights, demonstrate concrete progress in the policies pursued by the union.
in writing. − eu intervention must be guided by the legal obligation, laid down in its treaties, to ensure that all policies of the union and the member states, as well as all international agreements it concludes, focus on human rights. this reverence for the quality of human dignity that is at the very genesis of the eu has led to a series of instruments aimed at establishing a policy framework that supports the obligation described. unfortunately, the multiplicity of such instruments has resulted in a fragmented approach which today jeopardises the implementation of a coherent framework for all eu actions. the report therefore considers the need for a strategic framework and the related action plan, which should be given sufficient visibility in order to increase its legitimacy, credibility and accountability to citizens, and be able to define the agreed guidelines, instruments and positions and the various financial instruments, in particular the european instrument for democracy and human rights, of the eu human rights strategy.
in writing. − the report highlights the importance of coherence and cooperation between the european union and the member states in the field of human rights policy. in this respect, the key role played by national strategies and the importance of their being communicated to members of the european parliament should be emphasised. parliament also called for human rights clauses to be an integral part of agreements concluded by the union with third countries, insisting on the need to assess their potential impact on human rights in those countries before the negotiations. the european parliament also advocates a new european neighbourhood policy which puts the spotlight on young people and civil society. for these reasons, and because effective institutional cooperation on this matter is recommended, i voted in favour of the document.
in writing. - this report advocates the deepening of a hypocritical and instrumental policy of interference, pressure, aggression and war developed by the major powers of the eu and nato. although we find some contradictions in the report, a hierarchical view of human rights prevails, with the division between civil liberties and social rights, which translates into a regression in the universal and indivisible character of the human rights it claims to defend. despite the mild and even mystifying references to the internal situation of the eu countries, there is a lack of criticism of the imposition of policies aimed at a civilizational setback in the human rights of workers and peoples in countries such as portugal. the myth of introducing clauses for the 'defence of human rights' in free trade agreements prevails, when it is known and acknowledged that the implementation of these agreements has led to the greatest pressures and the destruction of human rights. the eu's interests are being undermined by interference - and the possibility of military aggression - in internal processes, which deny the peoples' right to self-determination. the prevailing interest is to impose collaborative regimes with the eu's neo-colonial interests in domination of the labour force, natural resources and markets on which the eu's monopolies depend.
in writing. - i welcome this report, stressing the european union's ambition to enjoy a strategic partnership with russia, but in my view this should only happen if russia comes closer to the values of the european union: democracy, human rights and the rule of law. at the same time, i think there is no doubt about the need for partnership with russia so that the european union can act as a global player on a number of issues such as iran, syria or counter-terrorism efforts. i also believe that russia's accession to the world trade organisation should also help to increase the efforts of the russian federal authorities to promote economic modernisation and to consider for the first time the possibility of russia's accession to the oecd. i think it is important to remember the problematic situation in russia, particularly in the case of judicial practices against the freedom of the press and the legitimacy of political activity.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with all the recommendations made by the rapporteur.
in writing. − the inclusion of russia as a strategic partner in the eu's common foreign and security policy is in the union's interests, provided that the fundamental values by which the union is governed are respected. russia is a country whose cultural roots lie in europe and, as a member of the united nations security council, the g8, the g20, the council of europe and the osce, it must be responsible for fulfilling its obligations. eu-russia relations are facing difficulties due to russia's reluctance to pursue a fully democratic path and to strengthen the rule of law; it is clear that russia, under the presidency of vladimir putin, is not really willing to enter into a strategic partnership which seeks to apply international law and prevent conflicts. it is essential to ensure that the new agreement strengthens collaboration on all matters where russia's and the eu's interests coincide. i therefore call for consensus between the eu and russia with a view to reaching a mutually beneficial agreement, where cooperation and trust are increasing, which focuses on positive outcomes, particularly as regards political understanding.
in writing. - the interdependence between russia and the european union is becoming increasingly evident. a new eu-russia agreement will not fail to recognise this reality and, hopefully, should seek to extract the maximum benefit from it for both sides. as i have said, russia is facing a major strategic challenge. some russian progress towards democracy is also known. in the context of the negotiations for the new agreement, the council, the commission and the european external action service should take account of these complex realities and seek to strengthen the necessary dialogue.
in writing. - russia is a strategic partner for the eu with which it has several trade agreements. its accession to the world trade organisation (wto) after almost two decades of negotiations, which was formalised on 22 august, has strengthened multilateral trade and, at the same time, committed it to a number of wto principles and laws. although early steps indicated that russia was on the right track toward a truly democratic state, the truth is that it has not. and like the rapporteur, i too am disappointed by the lack of democracy in russia. the last elections were marred by many irregularities, they cannot be considered free and fair, non-governmental organisations are prevented from carrying out their work and accused of being agents of foreign interests, the ministers of the interior and justice refuse to engage in dialogue and there are several allegations of human rights violations. the good eu-russia relationship is not at stake, but a new agreement must require a shared set of principles in terms of defence, strategic vision and human rights.
in writing. - the report insists on pointing to the eu as an example of 'democracy', 'the rule of law', respect for the 'universality of human rights and fundamental freedoms', 'respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law', when the practice of the eu and its powers in relations with third countries is witnessing flagrant violations of these principles. it is worth recalling the eu's connivance and silence in relation to the shouting outrages of the 1990s in russia, particularly when the yeltsin regime proceeded to shock therapies at the economic and social level. or during the events of the coup and armed robbery of the parliament in 1993. the pharisaic concept of human rights overlooks the factors at the heart of economic exploitation and worsening poverty in russia. the background to such positions is the ongoing disputes between the eu and big russian capital. the eu monopolies covet wealth and the status of energy supplier of russia, which is also a strategic opponent of the eu in the (re) division of spheres of influence. this is how we should understand further eastward enlargements and the consolidation of the eu as the european pillar of nato - an organisation which continues its expansion in the space of the former ussr. we voted against it.
in writing. − the new eu-russia agreement must have a comprehensive, forward-looking and legally binding framework to further develop relations with russia in the coming years, taking into account the need for efforts to strengthen cooperation in all areas where eu and russian interests are likely to coincide, alongside the promotion of european interests and values in areas where interests are not common, as well as the need to support the democratization and modernisation of the country. the necessary steps must be taken to ensure that the negotiations with russia continue at a good pace, addressing the concerns in the eu that there is no progress in the negotiations, which have not yet had the desired effect. the strategic partnership can only exist if both parties agree to follow universal democratic principles: it is important to stress that the eu-russia relationship must be based on reciprocity. hence my vote.
in writing. − considering that the eu is committed to deepening and developing its relations with russia and to the principles enshrined in the partnership for modernization, based on common interests and a deep commitment to universal values, democratic principles, respect for fundamental human rights and the rule of law, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep's recommendations on the negotiations on the new eu-russia agreement, which, as regards the development of their political and economic relations, call attention to the need to ensure respect for universal democratic principles. russia's political strategy towards global partners has been showing a selective interest in developing common policies, with no real intention of a genuine and ambitious partnership based on the common values of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. the report also calls for the eu to take a more active role in the fight against terrorism and to ensure that the eu's external action is coordinated with the eu's external action. today, russia's energy advantage is a source of pride in relation to its european neighbour, and the eu's democratic demands often do not seem to be a priority. the rapporteur urges the council, the commission and the european external action service to remain vigilant in respecting democratic principles and to take this requirement as an indispensable precondition for the signature of the eu-russia agreement.
in writing. − in 2008, negotiations were opened with the russian federation for the signing of a new agreement to replace the current partnership and cooperation agreement (pca) of 1997. the framework for relations with the russian federation inevitably involves respect for human rights, and i therefore join the rapporteur in urging the european institutions to strengthen the dialogue with russian civil society. the russian federation should be drawn to the attention of the council of the need to promote the development of an open and participatory civil society. it is up to the european institutions to promote the values of freedom and democracy in the new agreement to be concluded with the russian federation. i therefore believe that the new agreement with the russian federation should contain specific clauses concerning the healthy development of russian civil society and respect for human rights by the russian authorities. the start of the new cycle of relations with the federation must also be accompanied by the guarantee that the judicial system of the federation acts in a completely impartial and independent manner.
in writing. - this report is deeply hypocritical in insisting that the eu is an example of 'democracy', 'the rule of law', respect for the 'universality of human rights and fundamental freedoms', 'respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law', when the practice of the eu and its powers in relations with third countries is witnessing flagrant, continuous and aggravated violations of the principles set out. it is worth recalling the eu's connivance and silence in relation to the shouting outrages of the 1990s in russia, in particular when the yeltsin regime proceeded to shock therapies at the economic and social level or during the events of the coup and armed assault on parliament in 1993. the background to such positions is the ongoing disputes between the eu and big russian capital. the eu monopolies covet the wealth and status of russia as an energy supplier, which is also a strategic opponent of the eu in the (re) division of spheres of influence. this is how new enlargements to the east and the consolidation of the eu as the european pillar of nato - an organisation which is continuing its expansion in the former ussr - should be understood.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, beginning by expressing my deep concern at the israeli government's announcement of the construction of some 3 000 new housing units in the west bank, including east jerusalem. i think that this expansion may call into question the prospects of a viable palestine with jerusalem as the shared capital between palestine and israel, and that in the light of international law, israeli settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem are illegal. i therefore call for an immediate, total and permanent halt to israeli settlement building and expansion activities and for a halt to further orders to evict palestinian families and to demolish palestinian homes. i also condemn the statements by the political leader of hamas, khaled meshaal, who rejects the recognition of the state of israel and clearly rejects any israeli presence in jerusalem, and i call on hamas to recognize israel's right to exist.
in writing. - i have just recently expressed my deep regret for the victims of a conflict which threatens to continue unless two conditions are met: the security of the state of israel and its inalienable right to protect its population, on the one hand, and the right of the palestinian people to build their own state peacefully and freely, on the other. the expansion of settlements in the west bank calls into question the construction of a palestinian state and does nothing to contribute to the security of israel and its population. i would like the israeli authorities to reconsider their attitude to approving new construction and to return to negotiations as a matter of urgency. i would remind you that the portuguese government recently supported the recognition of palestine as an observer state in the united nations in order to give it the means to seek political solutions to its problems. just as this decision puts greater responsibility on the shoulders of the palestinian authorities, so international support for israel's freedom and security requires that its representatives be prepared to take concrete steps towards peace.
in writing. - there are many aspects of this resolution which we value. we stress the denunciation of the announced expansion of settlements by israel in east jerusalem, as well as the recognition of the illegality of the settlements and the "call" for their "immediate, total and permanent suspension". we also stress the denunciation of the israeli government's withholding of palestinian tax revenues and the 'request' for their immediate transfer. the approach adopted is, however, condescending towards the israeli authorities - which we regret. it is incomprehensible that there has been no firm and consistent condemnation of the continued violations of the most elementary rights of the palestinian people. it is incomprehensible that it does not mention, even once, that these actions constitute an intolerable retaliation by the israeli authorities for the recognition of palestine as a non-member observer state of the un. successive un resolutions have recognised the national rights of the palestinian people, in particular the right to the establishment of a sovereign and independent state of palestine within the pre-1967 borders, with east jerusalem as its capital. they demand the end and dismantling of all settlements and the separation wall, the right of return of all palestinian refugees to their homeland and compensation for the palestinian people for more than six decades of occupation. all this should be included in this resolution.
in writing. − for the very important resumption of direct israeli-palestinian peace talks to take place, all parties must avoid taking any unilateral steps that could compromise or hamper peace efforts. we must encourage the parties involved to settle all outstanding financial disputes under eu mediation. the statement by the political leader of hamas, khaled meshaal, that he rejects the recognition of the state of israel is to be condemned: hamas must recognize the right of israel to exist and to palestinian reconciliation. as long as palestinian leaders maintain this stance, it will be very difficult to find a path to full peace in this sacrificed region of the globe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the palestinian authority and the israeli government to relaunch the middle east peace process.
in writing. − having regard to the fact that on 2 december 2012 the israeli government announced its intention to build some 3 000 new settler houses in the west bank and east jerusalem, the european parliament expressed its deep concern at this announcement, stressing that this expansion could jeopardise the prospects for a viable palestine with jerusalem as the shared capital between palestine and israel. the joint resolution by the various political groups in the european parliament also stresses that israeli settlements in the west bank and east jerusalem are illegal under international law and calls for an immediate, total and permanent suspension of israeli settlement building and expansion activities and for the enforcement of new orders to evict palestinian families and demolish palestinian homes.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information and communication networks, including the european information and communication networks (eics). we also stress the denunciation of the israeli government's withholding of palestinian tax revenues and the 'request' for their immediate transfer. the language used is, however, quite condescending towards the israeli authorities. it is incomprehensible that these actions by israel are not expressly condemned. it is incomprehensible that it does not mention once that these actions are a revenge by the israeli authorities for the approval by the un general assembly of the status of a non-member observer state of the united nations, which are actions revealing the disregard with which israel continues to vote on successive un resolutions which recognize the national rights of the palestinian people, namely the right to the establishment of the state of palestine, sovereign and independent, in the pre-1967 borders, with its capital in east jerusalem. resolutions calling for the end and dismantling of all settlements and the separation wall, the right of return of all palestinian refugees to their homeland and compensation for the palestinian people for more than six decades of occupation.
in writing. - i approve this resolution calling on the ukrainian authorities to investigate the problems that occurred during the elections and the cases of violation of electoral law. i think it is urgent that the president of ukraine, the government and parliament step up and strengthen the process of modernisation and reform in order to bring the country closer to the parameters of the european union, stressing that many of these reforms can be done in cooperation between ukraine and the european union. i think that the european union has always shown its clear intention to associate itself politically with ukraine, and that ukraine should therefore give the same signal with the reforms it is calling for.
in writing. - ukraine is one of the most important centres of slavic culture and history, an inseparable part of european history and culture as a whole. the fact that a significant ukrainian community has settled in portugal, and lives and works there, has helped to make the country's political life less distant and the geostrategic issues affecting it more perceptible even to those who view them from the other end of europe. if we are to support ukraine's desire to converge with the european union and to see that country as a potential partner, we must nevertheless promote internal changes and reforms that will enable it to establish itself firmly as a democratic state governed by the rule of law. i hope once again that ukraine will demonstrate in practice its effective adherence to the values, principles and ideals which guide the life and action of the european union.
in writing. - we are faced with yet another regrettable exercise of interference, denoting the unconfessed aims of domination and control of a region and a country of great importance, for well-known reasons of a geostrategic nature. if the 'orange wave' were the political force most aligned with the interests of the major eu powers, the reaction would certainly be quite different. but it wasn't. the european parliament now calls for 'improvement of the electoral code of ukraine'. the epp's weak reactionarism (of bad memory) and primary anti-communism is highlighted in its attempt to introduce an amendment to the text of the resolution calling on the elected 'pro-democratic' parties not to establish links or agreements with the communist party of ukraine (which got almost 15% of the votes). as at other times in history, attempts are being made to criminalize the struggle against oppression and exploitation, the struggle for democracy and freedom, of which the communist ideal is the highest expression, with the help of a few little words. the political heirs (of various shades) of the former 'black shirts' feel, at bottom, the same threat as their predecessors. the threat that the struggle for social justice poses to the maintenance of the unjust and unjust social order that they defend and that sustains them. they won't get through!
in writing. − effective cooperation between ukraine and the european union can only be developed on the basis of a clear will on the part of the ukrainian authorities to introduce and implement the necessary reforms, in particular the reform of the legal and judicial system, aiming at full adherence to the principles of democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, minority rights and the rule of law. the institutions of the european union, the council of europe and the venice commission need to give active and effective support to this reform process. ukraine should put an end to the practice of selective administration of justice at all levels of administration and allow opposition parties to participate in political life on equal terms. the political opponents targeted by the persecution, including yulia timoshenko and yuri lutsenko, must be released and rehabilitated.
in writing. − the neighbourhood policy is part of the union project. in this resolution, which i vote for, i welcome the signing of the amended visa facilitation agreement between the european union and ukraine, which introduces clear improvements to the issuing of visas to ukrainian citizens compared to the agreement currently in force.
in writing. − the elections held on 28 october 2012 in ukraine were marred by allegations of electoral irregularities by several international bodies, including the osce and the report of the european parliament's election observation delegation in that country. i therefore consider the recommendations made by the european parliament to be important in the attempt to achieve a genuine rule of law, in which the judiciary is independent of the political power and the public administration fulfils its objectives of the common good of ukrainian society. it is therefore essential that the union reinforce its engagement in relations with ukraine with a view to deriving comparative advantages and actions that benefit ukrainian citizens. the question of visa liberalization is an example of a measure which should be on the negotiating table.
in writing. the resolution also calls for the eu to take action to prevent the spread of the virus and to ensure that the virus is contained in the country. it would be interesting to see if the ep would have made this issue as visible if it had been the political force of the so-called 'orange revolution', more aligned with the eu's economic interests, that won the elections. the eu is also calling for the abolition of the death penalty in all eu countries. the epp also tried - and failed - to include an oral amendment urging the elected 'pro-democracy' parties not to establish links or agreements with the communist party of ukraine (which won almost 15% of the vote), similar to the reference to the fascist svoboda party in the resolution's base text. it is yet another attempt by forces in the european parliament to try to equate communism with fascism and to criminalise communist forces. when communists and their liberating ideal are criminalised, democracy and the freedom to choose an alternative project to capitalism are condemned, and the eu will thus be the most undemocratic example in the world.
in writing. - i approve this resolution, reiterating my full support for the future accession of albania to the european union and sharing the commission's assessment of this country, which argues that it should be granted the status of candidate country, provided that it meets the objectives of the planned reforms in the areas of justice, public administration and with regard to the revision of the rules and procedures of the national parliament. i also stress the importance of the forthcoming elections, so that they are conducted in a free and fair manner, which will be a true test of the maturity of democracy in albania and a demonstration of the ability of the political forces to embark on a european agenda for the country. i therefore call on the council to grant the status of candidate country to albania without delay, subject to the fulfilment of the key reforms which must be carried out more easily with greater inter-party cooperation involving the opposition and the government.
in writing. - albania is geographically, historically and culturally part of europe. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been active in the fight against organised crime. but before that happens, albania will have to carry out structural reforms in the areas of public administration and justice, which are being implemented by the country step by step, and this is to be welcomed. the albanian political forces must continue to adopt reforms for the benefit of their citizens, through constructive dialogue (essential in democracy), in order for the country to move forward on the path to accession. the albanian people must understand that democracy and the rule of law are the two main standards of human rights and fundamental freedoms. the authorities need to take further measures to ensure full independence, transparency, freedom of expression, judicial efficiency, fight against corruption and abuse of public funds. i hope that albania will continue to progress and to develop good neighbourly relations, particularly with the balkan countries. i urge the albanian government to take steps to solve the problem of unemployment and extreme poverty and to compensate former political prisoners. i believe that albania will soon be able to meet the conditions necessary for membership of the union.
in writing. − in 2010, i warned of the political crisis in albania, which threatened to undermine the reforms undertaken in the meantime and which were largely aimed at a growing rapprochement with the european union, and expressed my doubts about the few guarantees given by that country as regards respect for the rule of law and individual freedoms. more than two years later, i acknowledge that the situation has improved since the agreement of november 2011. i welcome the reforms undertaken and the efforts made. despite this improvement and the 'european path' that the government and opposition say they want to follow, it must be said that much remains to be done before we can judge albania fit to join the union. i wish that would happen.
in writing. − albania is a country of significant geostrategic importance as it is situated on the periphery of europe but with strong links to the middle east and asia via the hellenic peninsula. during 2012, he chaired the council of ministers of the council of europe, which allowed him to increase credibility among the member states. albania's governments have expressed their intention to join the european union (eu), and in 2010 a set of reforms were established that albania should undertake in order to be granted the status of a candidate country for accession. the 2011 monitoring report concluded that four priorities were met and is about to conclude two more. relations between the government and the opposition improved, the immunity of high-level officials and judges was lifted, and various reforms were initiated in order to transition to democracy. although much remains to be done to achieve political maturity, particularly in the fight against corruption, organised crime, tax fraud and evasion, i congratulate the albanian people on the progress made and urge the government to continue the reforms under way towards full eu integration.
in writing. - this resolution is not very different from other resolutions on the applicant countries. they share a common matrix: the imposition of the political, economic and social model that corresponds to the interests of the eu's powers and monopolies; the imposition of the state's conformity to the 'market economy', that is, to the rules of capitalist society. the implementation of the acquis communautaire is the eu's trojan horse, which requires full implementation by these countries. its implementation has led (and is increasingly leading) to the destruction of a very significant part of the national productive sectors of the countries which have joined the eu, paving the way for the domination of the monopolies of the great powers. it has forced the privatisation or dismantling of key public services, or the destruction of thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises and thousands of small and mediumsized farmers and the destruction of millions of jobs. the resolution makes little or no reference to the socioeconomic impacts and consequences of the implementation of the acquis communautaire and the measures needed to deal with it. although this assessment is critical, we hope that the sovereign right of the albanian people to decide - free from any outside interference or pressure - whether or not to join the eu will be respected. we abstained.
in writing. − countries seeking to join the union must demonstrate, at all stages of the accession process, their capacity to strengthen the practical implementation of the values on which the union is founded; establish and promote, from an early stage, the proper functioning of the institutions fundamental to democratic governance and the rule of law, from the national parliament to the government and the judiciary, including courts and prosecutors, as well as law enforcement agencies. the eu accession process should become a driving force for further reforms and the main factor in ensuring constructive and responsible cooperation between the country's political apparatus. since the november 2011 agreement between the ruling party and the opposition, clear progress has been made on the reform agenda. however, the remaining challenges must be met in order to move forward on the path to eu membership. albania, thanks to its reform efforts, and provided that the albanian people so wish, can move to the next stage of the accession process in 2012, i.e. to assume the status of a candidate country for accession, provided that it achieves the critical mass of concrete results in the main outstanding areas of the ongoing reforms.
in writing. - the determined efforts of the government and the opposition to cooperate on reforms after a long impasse are highlighted in this resolution, which i therefore vote in favour of.
in writing. − albania is located on the eastern edge of the balkan peninsula, covers an area of 28 748 km2 and has a population of approximately 3 million citizens. albania is implementing fundamental reforms in the areas of public administration and justice, revision of the parliament's rules of procedure, judicial reform and development of civil society-government dialogue. i am voting in favour of this motion because i believe that albania is making significant progress towards meeting the political criteria for accession to the european union.
in writing. - this resolution is not very different from other resolutions on the applicant countries. all of them have a common matrix: they are full of interference and the imposition of the political, economic and social model that corresponds to the interests of the great powers and the eu monopolies. the implementation of the acquis communautaire is the eu's trojan horse, which requires full implementation by these countries. its implementation has led (and is increasingly leading) to the destruction of a very significant part of the national productive sectors of the countries which have joined the eu, paving the way for the domination of the monopolies of the great powers. it has forced the privatisation or dismantling of key public services, or the destruction of thousands of small and mediumsized enterprises and thousands of small and mediumsized farmers and the destruction of millions of jobs. the resolution makes little or no reference to the socioeconomic impacts and consequences of the implementation of the acquis communautaire and the measures needed to deal with it. despite all the criticism, we hope that the right of self-determination of peoples will be respected and that the albanian people will be allowed to decide free from any outside interference or pressure whether or not they wish to join the eu.
in writing. - i support this resolution because i believe that the european parliament should strive for consensus on a common plan for the restructuring of the steel industry at european union level, improving its competitiveness. at the same plenary session we discussed requests for support from the european globalisation adjustment fund arising from the sharp decline in this sector, which is due to the collapse of the construction and manufacturing sectors as a result of the crisis. the steel sector, in my view, is just one of several sectors that are being adversely affected by the lack of competitiveness of the european single market. europe needs a strong steel industry, as the competitiveness of this sector reflects the competitiveness of various economic sectors.
in writing. the steel industry plays a central role in the economy and is the cornerstone of the development and creation of numerous industrial sectors, which are indispensable to economic and social well-being. the crisis of capitalism has aggravated the process of weakening the steel industry in several member states and the impact on the population has been devastating, particularly in regions that depend on this industrial sector and other downstream industries. it is worth recalling that in portugal, following accession to the eec, this important industrial sector was dismantled. this resolution not only fails to denounce the real culprits behind the present state of the steel industry in each member state and in europe, where privatisations of the sector have led to its real decline, but it insists on the same european policies which have determined the social and economic pit into which this industry has been pushed. the fundamental aspect that none of the resolutions that were voted on understood, and that the resolution proposed by our group advanced, is that, by means of 'financial market rules which destroy employment and the production apparatus', it is essential to demand the 'renationalization of the steel industry' and that 'only public control of the steel industry can guarantee both the future of the sector and the rights of workers'.
in writing. − eu steel exports reached 33.7 million tonnes in 2010 (worth €32 billion), with turkey, the us, algeria, switzerland, russia and india being the largest markets for these exports, while steel imports to the union in the same year amounted to 26.8 million tonnes (worth €18 billion), with russia, ukraine, china, turkey, south korea, switzerland and serbia being our largest suppliers. the current crisis is creating a huge social shortage for the regions and workers affected, and companies undergoing restructuring must act in a socially responsible manner, as experience has shown that successful restructuring has only been achieved through a lot of social dialogue. high-tech industries such as the steel sector are seen as a model of technological know-how and must therefore be protected by immediate action to prevent their relocation outside the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution calling on the commission to provide, in the short term, a clear picture of the situation with regard to the main changes in the steel industry in europe and to monitor closely the developments under way in order to safeguard europe's industrial heritage and the workforce involved.
in writing. the steel sector remains central to the economic growth of the european union. however, the recent economic and monetary crisis has also had a negative effect on demand for this sector, leading to increased unemployment in this sector and in most directly or indirectly associated sectors. the importance of the steel industry to the european economy requires the commission to take measures to ensure the security of energy supply and to avoid relocation outside the territory of the union. i welcome the commission's initiative to present an action plan as early as 2013, but i believe that a detailed analysis of the situation of the steel industry in europe should be made a priori in order to safeguard the technological heritage and the skilled workforce.
in writing. - the current crisis of capitalism has aggravated the process of weakening the steel industry in several member states and the impact on the population has been devastating, particularly in regions that depend on this industrial sector and other downstream industries. this resolution not only fails to denounce the real culprits behind the present state of the steel industry in each member state and in europe, where privatisations of the sector have led to its real decline, but it insists on the same european policies which have determined the social and economic pit into which this industry has been pushed. the fundamental aspect that none of the resolutions adopted included, and which our group's resolution advocated, is that it is essential to demand the 'renationalization of the steel industry' and that 'only public control of the steel industry can guarantee both the future of the sector and the rights of workers'. the resolution, which was tabled by the socialist and socialist group, also proposes solutions for 'the retraining and vocational retraining of workers' and the use of 'eu financial instruments such as the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund', solutions for those who already anticipate more dismissals and relocations of companies.
in writing. - i approve this motion for a resolution, considering that the petitioners have strongly expressed their concerns regarding the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel plant in taranto, which have had and continue to have a significant, harmful and lasting impact on the health of the local population. some 20 000 families have members who worked in the steel industry or in ancillary sectors and the contamination rates of the local population have led to unacceptable and intolerable levels of illness and chronic disease. and on the other hand, considering that the steel industry, which employs some 360 000 workers, is a crucial economic sector of the european union and that parliament has the duty and responsibility to openly express its solidarity with the workers of the ilva steelworks and their families who have borne the effects of this completely unacceptable situation, i urge the commission and the council to develop a new policy for the steel industry which will boost growth and employment in times of economic crisis and which is compatible with the health and safety of all citizens and residents of the european union.
in writing. - given the current economic context, the eu cannot afford to lose opportunities to create jobs. the commission must therefore develop a new policy for the steel industry that will boost growth and employment and is compatible with the health and safety of all eu citizens and residents. as regards the petition which gives rise to this proposal, its authors have strongly expressed their concern at the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel plant in taranto, italy, which have had and continue to have a significant, harmful and lasting impact on the health of the local population. this has direct and indirect implications for 20,000 families whose members worked in the steel industry or in ancillary sectors and whose contamination rates of the local population have led to unacceptable and intolerable levels of illness and chronic disease. i believe that the ep should take a position urging the italian authorities to ensure, as a matter of urgency, the environmental rehabilitation of the polluted site of the steelworks for the sake of the environment, but also for the jobs involved.
in writing. the resolution under discussion, tabled by erminia mazzoni on behalf of the committee on petitions following a petition by an italian citizen, deals with the need for the european union to work towards developing a new steel industry which is sustainable and competitive. at eu level, the steel industry is a strategic sector employing some 360 000 people and in need of revitalisation. from the 1980s to the 1990s, due to the increase in energy and raw material costs, this industry entered a crisis. many companies have relocated to other regions, notably to the asian continent, and those that remain are struggling with financial problems that prevent them from modernising and being environmentally and financially sustainable. the case reported in the report of the ilva steel plant in taranto, italy, perfectly reflects the problems mentioned above: decapitalization, privatization, environmental pollution, closure and unemployment.
in writing. - this resolution is based on a petition received expressing concern about the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel plant in taranto, italy. the document states that 20000 families have members working in the steel industry or in auxiliary sectors and that the contamination rates of the local population have led to an unacceptable increase in illnesses and chronic diseases. the resolution states that the precarious and dangerous condition of the factory has caused "critical environmental degradation and damage" as well as serious economic and social problems in southern italy. it also stressed that the privatisation of the steelworks had not led to any improvement in environmental or worker safety and that it was essential to prevent further relocations of steelworks and steel production units, ensuring 'the safety of the workforce'. the resolution calls on the italian authorities to ensure the environmental rehabilitation of the site polluted by the plant, which we believe is the right thing to do.
in writing. − it is important to develop a new policy for the steel industry that will boost growth and employment in times of economic crisis and is compatible with the health and safety of all eu citizens and residents. the commission and the council should seek to work together with all stakeholders to ensure that this policy achieves a coherent link between economic objectives and social and environmental priorities in order to build a modern, competitive and sustainable european steel industry in full compliance with eu environmental legislation.
in writing. − in this resolution, which i vote for, the european parliament calls on the commission and the council to work together with all the parties concerned to ensure that the union's industrial policy achieves a coherent link between economic objectives and social and environmental priorities, in order to build a modern, competitive and sustainable european steel industry, in full compliance with eu environmental legislation.
in writing. the steel industry is of the utmost importance for the competitiveness of the european union, especially in a recessionary context. several high-end sectors are directly associated with the steel industry and therefore the implications of a breakdown of the sector should be assessed. the strategy presented by the commission on the need for a new industrialisation policy for the union should take account of this sector and present measures and actions to provide leverage.
in writing. - this resolution follows a petition received expressing concern about the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel plant in taranto, italy. the document states that 20000 families have members working in the steel industry or in auxiliary sectors and that the contamination rates of the local population have led to an unacceptable increase in chronic diseases. the resolution condemns the precarious and dangerous condition of the factory as having caused "critical environmental degradation and damage" as well as serious economic and social problems in southern italy. it added that the privatisation of the steelworks had not led to any improvement in environmental or worker safety and that it was essential to prevent further relocations of steelworks and steel production units, ensuring 'the safety of the workforce'. the resolution calls on the italian authorities to ensure the environmental rehabilitation of the site polluted by the plant, which we believe is the right thing to do. however, we think it is unacceptable to recommend that 'the costs of prevention and remediation be borne in accordance with the polluter pays principle', which exempts some from responsibility in this area.
