madam prime minister, all your ambitious and courageous goals, which i applaud, will remain waste and irrelevant if we do not punish the undemocratic excesses in hungary, bulgaria and romania. but we must be careful not to hit even harder the people who are now in the streets, those whose rights have been trampled underfoot by orbán, basescu and borisov. i think that these political leaders with dictatorial qualities should be brought into the discussion. i think we should have a much more serious discussion about the regimes of traian basescu, viktor orbán and boyko borisov. i believe that europe has a future if democracy in europe is defended. we need democracy in all 27 member states of the union.
in writing. – i am confident that the danish experience and pragmatism will be an important asset for the european union in the next six months. europe needs to ensure economic growth and the creation of jobs as a necessary addition to the economic governance and the financial regulation. without them, the european will lag behind in terms of global competition. one of the basic principles of the single market is the removal of restrictions on the free movement of workers from eu member states. we cannot have a genuine single market without these restrictions removed. therefore, further steps in this respect are very important in the next period. the recent positive decision taken in this respect by italy is most welcome but the member states which are still maintaining some restrictions need also to be convinced. i believe that the danish pragmatic approach will help in achieving progress related to the removal of restrictions on the free movement of all eu workers.
in writing. you have a great responsibility in these six months. we need to move forward as much as possible with the negotiations on the budget and the important common european policies. the normal way to build a budget is to identify needs, assess possibilities and then allocate resources. i noticed that at the last annual budget meetings, the approach was different: the resources were set and then distributed quite randomly. i understand that your proposal to tackle these negotiations is that at the end of january you will take a tour of the national contributions and only in may will you return to the proposals for the budget chapters, including for european policies. even though we are going through a period of financial crisis, i do not think this approach is in the union's interest. if this information is true, please come back and negotiate as soon as possible, in parallel and in close connection, for the european budget and policies (cap, cohesion, transport, research). please note that the commission's proposals on own resources must also be discussed in parallel. a possible agreement on own resources would reduce the strain on the amount of the national contribution.
denmark takes over the presidency of the european union in a difficult context. to ensure solidarity and growth, the danish government will need to work with the member states, the eu institutions and civil society. i appreciate that the issues addressed by the danish presidency are vital for the future of the union as a whole: economic recovery and budgetary discipline, energy efficiency and job creation in a competitive economy, a secure and strong europe are all topics that can revitalise the european project. economic measures are fundamental to restoring citizens' confidence in the european union. as a romanian, however, i will refer to a specific topic of the council presidency, namely the schengen system. as president barroso said, full respect for the right to free movement in the eu is a priority. in view of the decision delays, i ask denmark to find a solution for the admission of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area this spring. the experts have repeatedly concluded that the two countries have fulfilled all the technical criteria for accession. i think we can all agree that the union should not set double standards for the old and the new member states. this would profoundly affect citizens' confidence in community building.
in writing. i would first like to wish the danish presidency success and to stress the importance of the period during which it will be held, in view of the difficult economic situation worldwide. the danish presidency will also be the starting point for substantive discussions on the future common agricultural policy, and i should like to make a few comments on the programme presented. food shortages are a reality. the downward trend in food prices has ended. the age of plenty is over, and now we're in a deficit zone. many of the priorities in agriculture are important and welcome, but we need to find the right balance between these objectives and the need to increase productivity. we can't gamble with the food supply of the population. denmark should wish the cap reform success and also wish romanian agriculture success, given that danish investors own over 1.4% of romania's agricultural area, having bought some 130,000 hectares of agricultural land in recent years.
in writing. i would like to mention three points on which i believe the danish presidency can make a major contribution in this period of crisis and redefinition of european identity. first, denmark has an important role to play as a bridge between the euro area members and the other eu member states, or to borrow minister nicolai wammen's inspired phrase, as a 'bridge over troubled waters'. it is clear that we need unity to ensure not only the future of europe in economic terms, but also the viability of the european project in political terms. secondly, as the danish government has repeatedly pointed out, denmark regards freedom of movement as one of the major achievements of the union. the recently announced intention of the danish authorities to work towards removing the political obstacles preventing romania and bulgaria from integrating into the schengen area is to be welcomed. i hope therefore that the danish presidency will give a decisive impetus to the enlargement of schengen and that it will become effective as soon as possible in relation to romania and bulgaria. finally, i would like to welcome the fact that enlargement of the union in general is a priority of the danish presidency. this is a very positive signal to europe's partners, especially in times of crisis.
in writing. i welcome the danish presidency and its programme. although denmark is not a member of the euro area, in these difficult times, when solving the european debt crisis is the most important task for all of us, the presidency sees the primary objective of the presidency as saving the euro. although we do not all use the euro as a currency, we are all responsible for its fate. it is in the vital interest of each member state to find a way out of the present situation. in this respect, we cannot distinguish between individual countries. progress in european integration cannot be halted by the problems that remain, and the ambitious programme of the danish presidency is a strong signal in this respect: europe must continue to focus on expanding the single market and promoting sustainable growth. i wish the danish presidency every success and hope that in six months' time we will be able to talk about progress on the priorities set.
in writing. i wish the danish presidency of the european union success. i consider that the programme presented responds to the current priorities of the union. but i would like to draw the attention of the danish presidency to the fact that there are still obstacles to the development of european integration, which can be removed immediately if there is the political will of some member states. in this connection, i would point out that there are member states which maintain barriers to the free movement of labour from romania and bulgaria, just as one member state blocks the entry of the two countries into the schengen area. i am confident that the danish presidency will act to remove these obstacles to the development of european integration.
in writing. i commend the danish eu presidency for its commitment to european values and the community method. we have an obligation to give today's young people the chance to benefit from the same quality of education and health systems and the opportunity to contribute to the development of society as previous generations. in many european countries, hospitals are closing, schools are closing, employment rates have plummeted, and people are fearful for their future. too preoccupied with austerity measures, member state governments have forgotten their obligations to their citizens. our main challenge today is to save social europe and to restart the engine of economic growth and social development. welcomes the priority given by the danish presidency to the connecting europe facility and the guidelines on trans-european transport networks. i call on the danish eu presidency to defend the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers and to give due consideration to the development needs of the new member states in the negotiations for the adoption of the multiannual financial framework and the rules on the trans-european transport, energy and communications networks. i will have the pleasure of working with the danish presidency as rapporteur on e-government and the digital tachograph regulation, both of which contribute to the competitiveness of the internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it sends a strong signal from the european parliament on the principles that should underpin the development of the international agreement on a fiscal stability union. for this new treaty to have positive effects and to allow for the strengthening of economic governance, it is essential that divisions within the european union be avoided - both between member states and between institutions. in this respect, i consider the provisions on the participation of all states parties to the future agreement in the euro summit councils to be particularly important. at the same time, they draw attention to the need to strengthen parliamentary involvement in european economic governance issues, as a guarantee of democratic control in this area. i would remind you that measures to ensure growth and competitiveness are indispensable to ensure a genuine and sustainable economic recovery. i, for my part, call on european leaders to make concrete commitments in this plan.
in writing. the envisaged fiscal agreement (treaty) decided at the last council is a mix of proposals which seek to resolve a crisis generated by the non-existence of some of the proposed measures before it was triggered. unfortunately, the provisions on deficit reduction are not strong enough to solve the current crisis, which is manifested by a growing distrust of the bonds issued by eu member states. i believe that this impasse can only be overcome by measures to stimulate economic growth targeted at smes in the first place (for example, by partially subsidising the interest rate on bank loans). of course, excessive government deficits must be avoided, but a new skid is currently utopian, which makes me wonder what good these constraints are now. i believe that the member states must retain sovereignty over the tax rate and that competition between them in this respect cannot be harmful, just as competition between companies is beneficial for consumers. as for a financial transaction tax, the example of hungary is eloquent in terms of the effects: the decrease in capital exposure to that country and the reduction in credit is expected to happen at the eu level as well, even if perhaps more slowly than in the case of hungary.
in writing. − we all agree that urgent and courageous action is needed to counter the economic and sovereign debt crisis caused largely by structural weaknesses in the euro area. indeed, there is a need for sound governance of the euro area and a higher degree of budgetary discipline at member state level, but i do not know whether the intergovernmental agreement in its current form meets this imperative. i have a few reservations about this new treaty which risks creating a duplication of rules and creating a rift between the euro area and the rest of the member states without necessarily being necessary. the structural deficit criterion of 0.5% of gdp may well be included in the stability pact which is directly applicable in the member states. on the other hand, in order to ensure the democratic legitimacy of decisions implementing the provisions of the agreement, it would be ideal if they were taken by the community method and remained consistent with existing european law. last but not least, i believe that the provisions on fiscal union are currently vague, that is, that too much emphasis is placed on austerity without balancing it with some stimulus measures to revive the economy and return to the economic growth so necessary to alleviate social tensions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament's resolution on the conclusions of the european council meeting of 8 and 9 december 2011 on a draft international agreement for a fiscal stability union. we regret that the draft international agreement of january 2012 does not reflect parliament's proposals, expressed by the members appointed by the conference of presidents to represent parliament in the ad hoc working group, so far. the agreement should also include a commitment by the contracting parties to measures to increase the employment rate, convergence and competitiveness of the union. the eu is a political project based on strong common values and institutions and on respect for common rules, and it is only through the community method that monetary union can develop into a genuine economic and fiscal union. all contracting parties to the agreement, member states that are or will be part of the euro area, should have the same right to participate in the euro area high-level meetings. i call for the draft international agreement on a fiscal stability union to be publicly debated in each member state and for democratic accountability to be guaranteed through enhanced parliamentary participation at both european and national level on all aspects of european economic coordination and governance.
mr president, article 7(1) must be seen as a normal procedure provided for by our own treaty to defend eu fundamental principles, values and rights. the infringement procedure started by the commission is based on certain eu directives and does not touch on article 2 of the treaty. the time has come for this parliament, directly elected and representing the eu’s citizens, to prove it is capable of sending the right political message. we have received hundreds of messages from across europe asking for just that. let us be honest, no accession country would be allowed to join the european union if the situation were similar to the one in hungary today. to give just a few examples: the parliament has become an annex of the ruling party, which imposes the legislation it wants, not only for now but for the decades to come. a highly respected constitutional court has been transformed into a weightless body. the independence of the judiciary is under severe threat, as the right to appoint judges and to promote them belongs to only one person: the chief of the national judiciary office elected for nine years by a two-thirds majority of the parliament, which in fact means fidesz. the written press is dominated by self-censorship through the huge fine systems, the audiovisual media is politically controlled and frequencies are conferred in an arbitrary fashion. if we add the decisions affecting the economic and financial system, we get a picture of a government which is doing its best to take absolute control of society as a whole. fighting to secure full respect for fundamental rights and democracy in hungary in fact means fighting to secure full respect for fundamental rights and democracy in the european union.
i am convinced that the orbán government has acted in good faith in its governance and in respect for european values. he has shown that when he has taken account of the european commission's recommendations on media law and i am sure he will do so again in the light of the issues raised in the letter he received from the european commission. in hungary, as in other countries, there are grievances, grievances about the orbán government, which had to take economic measures, hard economic measures, that the hungarian people had to endure, to correct the major economic imbalances left by the previous government. i think some of these economic measures would have been good for other countries to take, and i would give as an example the temporary additional tax on banks, which has been very much criticized in the specialized press and in other publications and commentaries, but it is a fair measure in relation to the irresponsible behavior that banks have had not only in hungary but in other countries, in terms of lending to the population, and a lot of the difficulties that these economies have today are due to this irrational behavior. i wish the orbán government much success.
i listened carefully to prime minister orbán's explanations of the economic and fiscal crisis facing hungary, but this economic crisis cannot be used as a pretext to encourage a populism harmful to european democracy, because it is on the basis of this populism that regimes with clear discretionary tendencies are being built. as regards hungary, we have repeatedly expressed our concern here about the restrictions on freedom of the press, state institutions, the political opposition and the rights of citizens. i would like to say, mr. prime minister, that your extremist rhetoric also threatens regional stability through its implications for the ethnic coexistence of neighboring countries. i would appreciate it if prime minister orbán would tell us here today to what extent he approves and encourages the autonomist demands that are coming obsessively from some members of the political family to which you belong, the european people's party. we have been working hard for the last 20 years to join the european union, to build stability in the region, and i believe that you, mr prime minister, should continue this work, not reward and offer trampolines to those who promote ethnic hatred, because our region, mr prime minister orbán, cannot afford to become the dustbin of europe again. it is the sixth day that mass demonstrations are taking place in dozens of cities in romania, in which thousands of citizens are demanding the resignation of the president, as well as an incompetent and defiant government, which has repeatedly demonstrated anti-democratic lapses, taking advantage of the guilty passivity of the european union, and i believe that the time has come for the commission to show solidarity with the population at this time.
for more than a year now, the european parliament has been accusing hungary, but not only hungary, romania and bulgaria of anti-democratic practices which are in open conflict with european values, culture and legal norms. for over a year, these facts have been accumulating, and today's commission decision to open infringement proceedings only confirms the validity of our concerns. for over a year now, in hungary, but also in romania, there has been an assault on the role of the national parliament, on the opposition parties, on the trade unions, on the freedom of the press. for over a year, the european commission has been either shy or silent. and in these circumstances, i ask you, madam vice-president reding, is president barroso today, together with you, part of the left-wing conspiracy that distinguished colleagues from the epp are talking about in a hallucinatory way, or do you take note of these facts? i ask that in these troubled times the commission not remain silent but act as the guardian of the treaties.
in writing. against the background of a serious economic crisis, the consequences of which are felt primarily on the living standards of citizens, we are witnessing a worrying erosion of respect for democratic principles in the eu. recent history has shown us the danger of the two coming together: poverty caused by recession and nationalistic tendencies. european history still bears the burden of totalitarian regimes whose actions have absurdly shattered the destinies of people. the european project, founded on democracy, the rule of law and the protection of fundamental rights, is undermined in hungary by the government's recent decisions to arbitrarily amend the constitution. a state that claims to be democratic cannot restrict fundamental freedoms, restrain the press, or restrict the independence of the central bank. unfortunately, hungary is not the only country where the government violates the rights of its citizens. in romania, thousands of people are in the streets these days to protest against the abuses and incompetence of the basescu regime and to ensure their constitutional right to choose their leaders through free voting in early elections, as the current power is no longer representative. the european institutions have a duty to punish such aberrations severely, to avoid a repeat of history.
in writing. the hungarian government has persisted since it took power in promoting policies that are contrary to european law and are strongly nationalist-populist in nature. both the press law and certain provisions of the new constitution or the new law on the organisation and management of the central bank prove that the right-wing government in budapest is deliberately defying the community acquis and democratic principles despite the fact that a whole series of international and european organisations, including the european parliament, have repeatedly expressed serious concerns about the undemocratic tendencies of the policies it promotes. in this context, i welcome the decision of the european commission to open infringement proceedings against hungary, but i hope that it will not stop at this early stage but will continue decisively if the budapest government does not comply with community law as soon as possible. at the same time, the commission should also address similar violations of democratic principles in romania and bulgaria, where european values are in a continuous state of deterioration under the impact of anti-social policies promoted by right-wing governments.
in writing. during the revolutions of 1989 in eastern europe, the hungarian people, like other peoples, wanted to live in freedom. he wanted a democratic state that shared european values. unfortunately, hungary is not moving in that direction, and it's not a singular case in eastern europe. the plea for reform in hungary revolves around the new constitution. the basic law was amended after 1989, moving away almost radically from the 1949 one. the argument that this constitution needed to be changed because it was a stalinist one, fits into this context. hungary is undergoing major transformations. you can't talk about reform when democratic principles are being violated. a number of laws have been adopted, which concern the entire judiciary and the independence of the central bank. they are pushing hungary away from european values. similar phenomena can be found in romania and bulgaria. in times of crisis, the populist arguments that are the foundation of such governments cannot be accepted. i have said it before and i will say it again: regimes that are moving away from democracy must be brought into the debate at european level. the romanians, bulgarians and hungarians must be protected from politicians like orban, basescu or borisov.
at the durban conference, the union presented a clear agenda for reducing emissions, and this was on the table throughout the conference. no post-kyoto agreement was signed, the kyoto protocol was extended and a roadmap was set for 2015. the objectives of the 'durban platform', such as climate-friendly growth and poverty reduction, are however rather ambiguous. how will the industry be treated in the fight against climate change? an eco-efficient industrial policy creates jobs and economic growth. unfortunately, there is still no common analytical formula for determining emissions and the amount of emissions from air transport is not included. energy efficiency was also discussed in durban. in this context, the possibility of new opportunities and opportunities has been opened up. this allows us to make similar estimates for energy efficiency. by cop xviii, the itre and envi committees, together with the commission, must make concrete proposals for reducing emissions.
waste electrical and electronic equipment is one of the fastest growing sources of household waste and also one of the most hazardous. most of this waste is not properly managed and ends up in landfills, releasing toxic chemicals into the environment. the commission's proposal to improve and increase collection is therefore welcome. but as in other areas, the situation on the ground varies widely from one member state to another, and this reality must be taken into account if legislation is to be effective and easy to apply. in romania, the electrical products market is not yet saturated. in other words, we still do not throw away as much electrical and electronic products as other member states. it would therefore be important for us to have more time to adapt to the ambitious targets set by the new rules. the gradual increase in collection rates over the next seven years, which has been agreed as part of this package, provides us with some of the flexibility we need. as a general conclusion, the compromise reached provides a balance between the ambitious nature of the targets set and a realistic timeframe within which they can be achieved. i thank the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs for their work and their results in very difficult negotiations with the council.
waste electrical and electronic equipment is the waste with the fastest growing potential in the union, with estimates for 2020 reaching 12,3 million tonnes. i welcome the reform of the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive and stress the need for investment in the recycling of raw materials and rare earths, as mining, refining and recycling of rare earths have serious environmental consequences if not properly managed. the treatment of waste electrical and electronic equipment without proper procedures causes environmental damage, in particular by the release of heavy metals such as mercury from compact fluorescent lamps and flat screens and lead from televisions. according to the commission, only 33% of waste electrical and electronic equipment is officially separately collected, and it is possible that a large part of this waste, collected and undeclared, is treated in the union without adequate environmental protection or illegally shipped to developing countries, where certain valuable materials are recycled in a way that is hazardous to health and the environment or thrown away.
in writing. i congratulate the rapporteur and all those involved in securing political agreement on this very important dossier. i believe that the debate on this report these days is our message to politicians, to the 11th congress of electronic recycling, which is taking place from 18 to 20 january 2012 in salzburg, austria. i support two important elements of the directive: extending the responsibility of the producer for the management of weee that protects the environment, with a view to increasing resource efficiency and creating green jobs;providing for the creation of reception areas for small appliances in large shops, without the obligation to buy new ones in return, in order to support citizens and local authorities and encourage them to participate actively in collecting the necessary quantities required by the directive.
in writing. the new european rules on biocides aim to tighten controls on their impact on health and the environment, while simplifying the product authorisation procedure. 'biocides' are produced to combat harmful organisms and pathogens. they are used to protect human and animal health. they include disinfectants and insecticides and are used for preserving materials, embalming or painting vessels against the adherence of algae and micro-organisms. the eu has a longstanding legislation in this area, dating back to 1998. updating the legislation is a natural step so that only safe products reach the market. the new rules cover new areas such as furniture and textiles. the most dangerous substances - carcinogenic or toxic to reproduction - should be banned or used with more caution. the measures also facilitate the authorisation for placing products on the european market. as regards animal testing, in exchange for fair compensation, applicants should pool studies on vertebrate animals. a community-wide authorisation system should be introduced in the future to ensure a harmonised european market for biocidal products.
i shall refer to the motion for a resolution under discussion. the most important elements of this project are, in my view, those relating to strengthening the position of farmers through better internal organisation. supporting producer organisations is the healthiest way for producers to sell their products on decent terms. at the same time, i don't think we need to shy away from legislation on the relationship in the food supply chain, as long as future legislation is based on objective grounds. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the market is not distorted, and that the market is not distorted. farmers need action and cannot afford to wait for bankruptcy. i therefore support the adoption in its entirety of paragraph 4 of the motion for a resolution, which is extremely reasonable and even provides that future legislative measures should be adopted only if they are absolutely necessary and that these measures should not distort the proper functioning of the markets.
we've been talking about imbalances in the food chain for a long time. but the situation remains unchanged. farmers continue to be victims of abusive contracts and unfair competition. in my country, food manufacturers have to pay a fee to sell their products in supermarkets, but also a shelf fee, extra, to get visibility in the store. moreover, farmers receive only a tiny percentage of the profits that big-box stores make from selling their produce. in the vast majority of cases, the quality products of small and medium-sized farms have great difficulty reaching consumers because these producers cannot cope with the competition or the conditions imposed by supermarkets. in romania, farmers are forced to throw away a good part of their fruit or vegetable production because they cannot make use of it under current market conditions. i would like to take this opportunity to ask the commission and the member states to strengthen the bargaining position of farmers in the food chain, to ensure that competition rules are respected in agriculture and to encourage local markets.
agriculture is and will remain a strategic sector of the european union's economy and, in order to meet future challenges and ensure coherence of interventions within a given region, it is first and foremost necessary to establish close links between agricultural policy, rural development policy and regional policy. as regards the asymmetric reaction of food prices to commodity price fluctuations, i believe that this is mainly linked to the number of intermediaries operating along the supply chain. i therefore support the adoption of instruments to promote and support short supply chains and markets where farmers can unload their goods directly. this will create a direct link between consumers and farmers in a particular region, whereby the latter will get a larger share of the value of the final price, while the population will enjoy better prices.
the european union must invest to ensure that european access to space and orbital infrastructure is guaranteed. i stress the importance of intensifying industrial cooperation in the field of space policy with third countries, in particular the usa, japan, russia, china, india, brazil, argentina, chile and the states of africa and the middle east. i stress the importance of a strategy for research and innovation in the field of space policy, which ensures technological progress, industrial development and the competitiveness of the union and creates jobs within the union. we call on the commission to support small and medium-sized enterprises to gain easier access to european funding for innovation in gnss applications and services, in particular on the basis of the research framework programmes. the egnos system should cover the whole of the union in order to consolidate the common market, and i stress the need to extend it to southern, eastern and south-eastern europe. (speaker was interrupted)
in the sede subcommittee we have a very intensive discussion on space strategy, especially on security and defence policy. the european union should be at the forefront of the space sector, playing a strategic role on the international stage. i believe that it is essential to: - first, to intensify industrial cooperation in the field of space policy and with third countries; we need the united states of america, we need japan, china, india and other countries with a special power and importance in this field; - then we need to attract a greater volume of capital from the private sector for the european earth observation programme gmes; this has not been achieved so far; - last but not least, we need continued investment in the completion of the galileo system. it would be a mistake to abandon at this time this system that we have started and which promises to be a great success.
the annual production of food waste in the 27 member states is estimated at about 179 kilograms per capita. however, in the union, 79 million people live below the poverty line, and 16 million of them have received food aid from charitable institutions. food security is a fundamental human right, which is achieved through the availability, accessibility and stability over time of healthy, sufficient, adequate and nutritious food. the issue of food waste should be addressed from a resource efficiency perspective and we call on the commission to launch specific initiatives addressing food waste within the framework of the 'a resource efficient europe' initiative to give it the same attention and awareness as energy efficiency, both being equally important for the environment and for ... (the president withdrew the speaker).
saving food also means saving water, energy, labor costs; not least, it is a good answer to the problem of land scarcity, which has been so much discussed lately. let us not forget that europe is far more dependent on food from land outside its borders than any other region in the world, using 640 million hectares of land annually, equivalent to one and a half times the area of its own land. almost 60% of the land used for europe's needs is actually located in other parts of the world, an area ten times larger than germany, for example. again, the question is, are we using more land, are we looking elsewhere for more land, or are we making the best use of the resources we have?
in writing. i would like to welcome mr caronna's report, in a context where there is an increasingly heated debate on food security and sustainable agriculture. worldwide, enough food is produced to satisfy all the world's food needs, but the problem is unequal distribution and waste. while people in africa are starving, according to a fao study in europe, european and north american citizens waste between 95 and 115 kilograms of food per capita each year. i therefore ask the commission to promote public awareness campaigns on food waste and to encourage farmers and economic operators to take action against the waste of agricultural products both on the field and in the food chain.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the amendment to the directive will make the necessary changes. i am thinking in particular of clarifications on the collection methodology and the categories of electrical and electronic equipment. another positive element is the focus on the recovery of strategic raw materials, alongside recovery, recycling and reuse actions. i want to stress the importance of awareness raising and public information. this ensures the success of waste management programmes. i also encourage the commission to promote the exchange of good practice in this area. for example, the romanian authorities have created a website that provides all the information about the collection and recycling of electrical and electronic equipment. the national campaign 'the great clearing' was also launched in 2007. it has collected several thousand tons of waste every year.
i voted in favour of this report because biocidal products have a wide range of uses, including in the food, cosmetics and textile industries. therefore, their use needs to be carefully regulated. simplified authorisation procedures are necessary. at the same time, a high level of health protection must be maintained. i believe that the centralised authorisation system will have beneficial effects at european level. measures on the full labelling of biocidal products are also appropriate. they will allow for better consumer information and protection. i appreciate the attention to cumulative effects. there is currently no accepted definition or single criteria for analysis. in this respect, the inclusion of the evaluation methodology in the guidelines presented by the commission is a step forward.
i voted for mr bové's report because i believe that the price mechanism on agricultural markets must ensure a fair distribution of profits. today, the supply chain is characterized by opacity and lack of communication. add to this the concentration of large retail chains, the rise in utility prices, and the decline in the purchasing power of the population. unfortunately, the hardest hit are farmers in the peripheral, mountainous, or isolated areas. because of the harsh natural conditions, they have to invest more in transporting and preserving the produce, while keeping a competitive price. i would like to ask the commission what compensatory measures it can offer to these farmers. they should also be informed about the package for peripheral and outermost regions offered by the structural funds.
i voted in favour of the report drawn up by my colleague mr caronna, in view of the fao's warnings about imbalances in world food production. i believe that we need to promote quality agriculture, coupled with rational consumption, and avoid waste. this is how a healthy nutritional supply can be achieved. it is the basis of food security, a new fundamental right for european citizens and beyond. while every european citizen throws away 180 kilos of food a year, somalia has been ravaged by famine for six months. the united nations now estimates that the country has the highest rate of malnutrition in the world, especially among children. i also support the designation of 2013 as the european year against food waste, in order to raise public awareness.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the amendments to the visa code bring legal certainty for persons holding visas or residence permits for those eu member states which are outside the schengen area. it also clarifies the rules applicable at airports across the european union and eliminates the possibility of different standards being used by security authorities in schengen and non-schengen member states. beyond the technical changes proposed, it is also a symbolic message that member states must be treated equally and without discrimination, regardless of their membership of the schengen area. i think there is a lesson to be learned in the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area or in the wider reform of schengen governance. following the adoption of that report, the commission should take the necessary measures to amend the visa application handbook accordingly to take account of the new provisions.
in writing. − in order to ensure legal certainty and greater transparency, it is necessary to amend the regulation on the community visa code in order to clarify all transit rules for international airport areas. the novelty introduced by this regulation concerns the exemption from the requirement to hold an airport transit visa for third-country nationals who are in possession of a valid residence permit or visa issued by one of the member states not fully applying the schengen acquis. the countries concerned are the united kingdom and ireland, which have decided not to apply the schengen acquis, and cyprus, bulgaria and romania, which are in the process of acceding to the schengen area. i think this amendment is normal, given that these people have already been checked by an eu authority and it is also a proposal that will reduce the bureaucratic obligations of the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the community code on visas because it clarifies some key technical aspects of the visa regime. following the adoption of this report, third-country nationals who already hold a visa issued by a member state are also entitled to exemption from the airport transit visa (atv) requirement by those member states which do not apply the schengen acquis. this is a logical step because once such a third-country national has passed all the required identification steps for securing the said visa, he/she should not require a second set of identification checks in order to obtain an atv.
in writing. − the eu-georgia agreement on protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs is an important step in bolstering trade between these two regions. upon the entry into force of the 1999 partnership and cooperation agreement, georgia acceded to the world trade organization in 2000 and has since then been party to the agreement on trade related aspects of intellectual property rights (trips). the purpose of this eu-georgia agreement is to safeguard the geographical indications, or place names used to identify origin and quality, reputation and other characteristics of agricultural products and foodstuffs. exports of georgia’s products to the eu in the last ten years have not only diversified, they have increased fourfold. while the agreement aims to streamline trade between the eu and georgia, it also allows georgia to strengthen its export economy to regions outside its traditional trade route. in the case of my home country romania, a tool such as this agreement can be quite instrumental for often overlooked countries to gain visibility and recognition in markets abroad.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, as the alde shadow rapporteur for georgia in the afet committee, i understand the significance of moving forward in pursuing closer trade relations with georgia. this is a positive step in eu-georgia relations because it will serve to enhance georgia’s access to a wider share of the eu market, which can only have positive effects on its economy. this agreement on protection of geographical indications ensures georgia’s capacity to assume key technical commitments and to implement them within a wider deep and comprehensive free trade agreement.
in writing. − i voted for the council decision on eu accession to unece regulation no 29 on uniform provisions for the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of passengers in the cabin of a commercial vehicle. eu accession to this unece regulation makes it possible to apply the same standards in many countries, eliminating red tape, improving road safety, environmental protection and trade, and helping to maintain the international competitiveness of european industry. type approvals granted under unece regulations will be considered as ec type approvals, thus avoiding redundancies not only in technical requirements but also in certification procedures and administrative procedures, for the benefit of industry and national authorities. these technical requirements will apply in many countries located in particular in the eu, non-eu countries in western and eastern europe, south-eastern europe, the commonwealth of independent states, japan and north america, which are contracting parties to the 1958 unece agreement. type-approval, directly linked to internationally agreed standards and applied in so many countries, will be adopted by other third countries, further improving market access and strengthening the competitiveness of the eu industry.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the eu position on the draft regulation of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) on pedestrian safety and the draft unece regulation on light sources with electroluminescent diodes (leds). the european commission, as the eu representative, considers that the two draft regulations, both on pedestrian safety and on light sources with light emitting diodes, should be included in the european union type-approval system for motor vehicles. the two draft unece regulations thus become part of the european type-approval system for motor vehicles. the standardised requirements of the draft unece regulation on provisions relating to the approval of vehicles with regard to pedestrian safety and provisions relating to the approval of vehicles with regard to light emitting diode (led) light sources aim to remove existing technical barriers to trade in motor vehicles between the contracting parties to the revised 1958 agreement (on technical requirements for wheeled vehicles) and to ensure that these vehicles provide a high level of safety and protection.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the government of the republic of indonesia on certain aspects of air services. the agreement signed on 29 june 2011 replaces certain provisions contained in the 19 existing bilateral air service agreements between eu member states and indonesia. certain provisions in the bilateral air services agreements between the eu member states and indonesia contained provisions that are contrary to the legislation of the european union and need to be brought into line with it in order to establish a sound legal basis for air services between the european union and indonesia and to preserve the continuity of those air services. the agreement aims to grant the right to non-discriminatory access to all eu air carriers on routes between the member states concerned and indonesia. the eu does not seek to increase the overall volume of air traffic between the union and indonesia through this agreement, nor does it seek to affect the balance between the air carriers of the european union and those of indonesia, or to negotiate changes to the traffic rights provisions in existing bilateral air services agreements. the agreement contains provisions on safety, aviation fuel taxation and the prohibition of anti-competitive practices.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because cooperation between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation needs to be strengthened. this memorandum supports the fundamental objectives of european external aviation policy. it is particularly important that the eu contributes to the decision-making process within icao, as the organisation currently has 190 member states. cooperation in areas such as aviation safety, aviation security, air traffic management and environmental protection should be further developed. the establishment of joint mechanisms will contribute to better coordination of programme planning and technical assistance. the promotion of new systems and technologies worldwide is necessary. it will enhance the competitiveness of the european civil aviation sector. i welcome the mutual commitment to achieving the highest levels of aviation safety in the world.
in writing. − this memorandum of cooperation aims to regulate and deepen relations and cooperation between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao). i believe that the european union should attach greater importance to this cooperation because most of the matters covered by the chicago convention fall within the union's competence. the international civil aviation organization regulates policies in the areas of safety, security, environment and air traffic management. in addition, icao standards and requirements are the basis for community legislation and in conclusion i believe it is very important for the eu to be involved in the work and policy making of icao in order to contribute to the development of appropriate policies for the civil aviation sector. the mou also provides for the exchange of electronic information, data and official publications and the granting of access to databases, which will lead to a strengthening of relations between the two entities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the council decision on the conclusion of the memorandum of cooperation (mc) between the eu and icao, establishing a framework for enhanced cooperation and laying down related procedural steps. the general objective of the memorandum is to ensure harmonisation of standards, close coordination of civil aviation activities and to achieve efficient use of resources and avoid overlapping efforts. pursuant to the decision and in accordance with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the council shall decide on the eu position within the joint committee on the adoption and amendment of provisions. the union shall be represented within the joint committee by the commission, assisted by representatives of the member states. the commission sets the eu's position for cooperation on working conditions, financial and resource issues, consultation and exchange of information, interoperability of new technologies and coordination of inspection and audit programmes. in accordance with icao confidentiality rules, the parties shall exchange electronic information, official data and publications and grant each other access to databases. the memorandum provides for financial support of eur 500 000 per year, for an initial period of 3 years. subsequently, provisions in the field of aviation security, air traffic management and environmental protection previously adopted by the council will be included in the annexes to the memorandum.
in writing. − i voted for parliament's position on the waste electrical and electronic equipment directive (weee) as the directive supports the efficient use of resources and the recovery of valuable secondary raw materials. member states shall encourage cooperation between producers and recyclers and the adoption of measures to promote the design and production of eee (electrical and electronic equipment), in particular to facilitate the reuse, dismantling and recovery of weee and their components and materials. for weee from private households, member states shall ensure that systems are in place to allow for the free handing over of such waste. certain member states, including romania, may, due to the lack of the necessary infrastructure and the low level of consumption of eee, decide to achieve, within four years of the entry into force of the directive, a collection rate of between 40% and 45% of the average weight of eee placed on the market in the preceding three years and may postpone the achievement of the final collection rate referred to in article 7 (1) until a later date, but not later than nine years from the date of entry into force of the directive. the commission calls on the european standardisation bodies to develop european standards for the treatment, recovery, recycling and preparation for re-use of weee.
in writing. − i supported the agreement at second reading on the regulation setting the conditions under which biocidal products may be placed on the market because, despite rather difficult negotiations, a satisfactory result was reached in terms of both the competitiveness of the industry and the protection of the users of these products and the environment. i consider the introduction of a union-wide authorisation procedure to be one of the most important developments. even if i would have preferred a faster implementation than the agreed three-step approach, motivated by the need to ensure the optimal functioning of the european chemicals agency, i believe that this procedure, together with the simplified procedure for low-risk products, will considerably reduce the costs that the industry will have to bear in authorising new products. this will also encourage innovation in the field, encouraging the introduction of new products that are more efficient and less harmful to the environment and users. last but not least, i am pleased that the council members have accepted parliament's request to avoid duplicating animal testing when such testing has already been done.
in writing. − this own-initiative report identifies problems in the sectors overlapping agricultural production, highlights farmers' growing dependence on an increasingly concentrated manufacturing industry and proposes a series of measures to be adopted in the framework of the future cap reform. farmers need support to improve agronomic and environmental performance to meet new climate, ecological and economic challenges. i believe that the new cap policy should include specific support measures to encourage the streamlining of agronomic practices and the improved and sustainable management of agricultural resources in order to produce stable and productive agriculture, reduce production costs and nutrient losses and increase innovation, resource efficiency and efficiency and sustainability in agricultural production systems. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the agricultural factor supply chain, as the high level of volatility in prices of basic agricultural products and agricultural production costs has led to increased uncertainty in agricultural income and long-term investment by farmers. according to eurostat, over the last decade, total production costs of eu farmers have increased by an average of 40%, while farm gate prices have increased by an average of less than 25%. we call on national and european competition authorities to address the issue of abuses of dominant positions by agribusiness traders, food retailers and processing companies and to enforce eu antitrust law. member states need to improve their collection systems for agricultural products. we call on the commission and the member states to examine the role of producer organisations and cooperatives in organising collective purchases of agricultural inputs in order to strengthen the bargaining position of farmers. the commission should inform farmers and consumers of the need for more efficient management of energy, water and natural resources throughout the food chain in order to significantly reduce resource and food waste.
in writing. − i believe that food waste has become a widespread phenomenon in the eu, but has not received the attention it deserves. the current situation is unacceptable, as up to 50% of healthy food is wasted every year in supermarkets, restaurants and households in the eu, while 79 million european citizens live below the poverty line and 16 million receive their food from charities. we expect the european commission to come forward with a convincing strategy that will force eu member states to tackle this problem systematically. in the medium term, however, i believe that 2014 should be designated as the 'european year against food waste'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of paragraph 4 of the motion for a resolution as it was presented, because we must not reject legislation on relations between agricultural producers and large traders. the best evidence of the need for legislation is the failure of attempts to self-regulate in this area. producers need concrete and effective measures, and not least, they need them to be implemented as quickly as possible.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on imbalances in the food supply chain, as the income problems of european farmers are increasing and the prices paid by consumers for products are not reflected in the prices paid to farmers for their products. this undermines the ability of farmers to invest and could lead to them going out of business. we call on the commission and the member states to urgently address the issue of unequal distribution of profits in the food chain, in particular to ensure adequate income for farmers. in order to stimulate sustainable production systems, farmers need to be compensated for the investments and commitments they make in these areas. i welcome the commission's proposals for cap reform, which aim to strengthen farmers' position in the food supply chain by supporting producer organisations and inter-branch organisations and promoting short chains between producers and consumers, such as markets for local products. considers it necessary to organise an information campaign at eu level to inform farmers about their contractual rights, the most common illegal, unfair and abusive contractual and commercial practices and the means at their disposal to report abuses.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is important that the eu has its own navigation system. i believe that european space competence needs to be developed. europe has a rich heritage in space. but it must be put to good use. the galileo global navigation satellite system will stimulate industries that need reliable and precise positioning services, such as transport, security and medical services. the economic impact for industry is estimated at around eur 90 billion over the next 20 years. i stress the importance of developing a strategy for research and innovation in the field of space policy. at the same time, technological progress should be ensured by stable funding in the long term. therefore, the promotion of public-private partnerships is of significant importance in this area. a competitive space industry would foster european access to space and orbital infrastructure.
in writing. − the european union must play an important role in the development of a space policy in order to promote scientific and technical progress. i support mr patriciello's report because it highlights this very point. at the same time, a legislative, administrative and financial framework is fundamental for industry's investment in research and innovation. it also believes that the eu must invest to ensure that european access to space and orbital infrastructure is guaranteed. the report also argues that although the strategy put forward by the commission identifies priority areas for action, these remain unclear. they need to be more explicit and present an assessment of the options, costs, benefits and risks
in writing. − the space sector plays a vital role in increasing competitiveness and innovation at union level. space infrastructure is a key framework serving the economic, social and strategic interests of eu citizens. the successful launch of the galileo project confirms to me that the eu needs an independent space policy integrated into the objectives of the different development sectors. i believe that the success of this policy lies in connecting the space infrastructure with the satellite service providers. unfortunately, european companies implementing satellite communication systems are reducing their activities in europe and reducing their staff by shifting production to other continents. the commission-funded sartre programme, which aims to implement technologies enabling satellite-guided vehicle transport in columns, brings considerable added value to research and innovation in the eu. the institutions and companies involved in the project benefit from the advantages of the european space infrastructure, contributing to increased safety and comfort in traffic with a reduced impact on the environment. romania has joined the european space agency (esa), becoming an institutional partner in a scientific space mission - euclid. romania is also on its first space experiment - the launch of the goliath satellite. esa's space systems enable the development of space applications for agriculture, the environment, transport, disaster measurement and telemedicine.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on an eu space strategy for citizens, as space policy is an essential element of the europe 2020 strategy and is an integral part of the flagship industrial policy initiative. the eu's space policy aims to improve the daily lives of european citizens by facilitating economic growth, encouraging the potential for innovation and supporting scientific progress. space solutions relying on cutting-edge technologies and a competitive european industrial base are indispensable for addressing current societal challenges such as natural disasters, monitoring of resources and climate, developing the telecommunications sector and promoting relevant applications in the fields of climate change policy, urban planning, environmental management, agriculture, maritime safety, fisheries and transport. we call on the commission to make concrete proposals in the strategic field of launchers, given the current critical economic situation of the launchers sector worldwide. the galileo and egnos programmes are essential for the creation of the single european sky and for the safe and cost-effective management of air traffic in europe. we call for a firm and ambitious timetable and stable funding for research and innovation, which will ensure technological progress and increase industrial capacity. as gmes is a key tool in combating climate change and environmental degradation, we recommend funding gmes under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − food waste has become so widespread in recent years that it can be considered a global problem, which unfortunately has serious repercussions on the food supply chain. the causes of food waste are diverse, ranging from losses during harvesting and storage, to unsafe transport, to labelling errors and poor habits of the final consumer when buying and using food. i believe it is essential to reduce food waste throughout the food chain by adopting a coordinated strategy followed by concrete actions. the exchange of good practices is also needed at both european and national level in order to improve coordination between member states to avoid food waste and to increase the efficiency of the food supply chain. combating food waste must become a priority on the european political agenda. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − with almost 80 million people in the eu living below the poverty line and more than half of the food waste in european households and along the food supply chain could be avoided, i believe that the adoption of this report is an important step towards increasing access to food for the poorest of europeans. at union level, we must already take all the necessary measures to cope with the future growth of the world population and, by implication, its food supply. i also supported this report because it addresses the environmental and ethical issues, but also the economic and social costs of food waste.
in writing. − i voted for the report on avoiding food waste: strategies to make the eu food chain more efficient, as each year in europe around 50% of the amount of healthy and edible food is lost along the food chain, becoming waste. we call on the council, the commission, the member states and the actors in the food supply chain to address food waste throughout the supply and consumption chain as soon as possible and to develop guidelines and support to increase the efficiency of the food supply chain in each sector. food waste has various causes: overproduction, misdirection of products (inappropriate size or shape), damage to products or packaging, marketing rules (looking problems or packaging defects) or improper stock management and marketing strategies. we invite the commission to assess the impact of a coercive food waste policy targeting all parties involved in the food chain, by applying the 'polluter pays' principle. we ask the commission to set specific food waste prevention targets for member states, as part of the waste prevention targets to be met by member states by 2014, as recommended by the 2008 waste framework directive.
given the alarming situation of youth unemployment, it was very beneficial to include on the council's agenda the debate on boosting employment for this category of the population. the future belongs to the young and they are the main beneficiaries of everything that is being built, for better or for worse, today. it is therefore essential that measures be taken to improve their situation, both at community level and at the level of each member state. i consider cohesion policy to be a basic instrument for achieving the objectives proposed in this respect. programming processes for european funds for the period 2014-2020 have now started at national level. i strongly recommend that the commission and the member states pay greater attention to youth and include well-funded and specifically targeted axes for youth employment in the structure of national programmes.
in writing. 25 member states have reached an agreement on stability, coordination and governance in emu, a key element in our efforts to maintain stability and an example of the solidarity and determination with which the union is prepared to deal with crisis situations. european leaders have had to take difficult measures to stabilize the eurozone. financial stability is an important but not unique element in the effort to ensure economic recovery. we need discipline, structural change, employment and sustainable growth. the use of european funds must be optimised. concrete proposals are needed to address youth unemployment and sme financing. we are entering a phase of economic governance based on the european semester, in which national governments recognise that areas of national competence must also be addressed at european level. the european economy needs to become much more competitive, and this is only possible by completing the internal market. the commission must therefore ensure that all internal market laws are applied in the member states and supervise their application. this agreement represents a major step forward towards fiscal and economic integration and better governance of the euro area.
at the european council on 30 january, 25 member states signed the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union. the new treaty obliges member states to have balanced or surplus national budgets, failing which an automatic correction mechanism is triggered. the treaty will be signed in march and will enter into force after it has been ratified by at least 12 euro-area member states. the treaty must be incorporated into eu law within five years of its entry into force. the treaty represents the firm commitment of the signatory states to strengthen fiscal discipline. austerity measures are not a guarantee of growth. austerity measures have created, in some member states, by deteriorating the quality of life of many european citizens and by increasing the proportion of the population at risk of poverty, genuine social crises and the deterioration of the european social model. we regret that at the european council on 30 january the member states did not commit themselves as firmly to boosting employment, especially among young people, to completing the single market, to increasing the eu's competitiveness and to stimulating financing for the economy, especially smes. they are essential for maintaining the european social model and for implementing the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. the political developments at the european council in december 2011 reconfirmed the priorities in the process of consolidating the eu, namely the resumption of sustainable economic growth and job creation. the demonstration of solidarity is the most important of these priorities. we must continue on the path of the euro plus pact and strengthen solidarity between the euro area and the member states outside it. the process of pooling the sovereignty of the member states must continue to ensure solidarity. we politicians, the members of the european parliament, must explain to our constituents why sharing sovereignty is not a concession and rebuild their confidence in the community's future. they will thus be more confident in the developments of the near future and in our efforts to build a new europe that is more united and coordinated under the democratic primacy of the european parliament, the only european institution whose members are directly elected by the citizens. i was of the opinion that the ep should have a bigger role in decision-making and that the president of the ep should attend all meetings of the leaders of the member states. and i also believe that the incorporation of the new stability pact into the european treaty must remain a major objective.
the epp group welcomes the council's decision of 23 january to extend the existing sanctions against iran. these are the toughest sanctions yet imposed on the regime in tehran. after the asset freeze of a long list of iranian companies and individuals, after the restriction of exports of sensitive products and investments in iran's hydrocarbons, the next logical step was to sanction the country's strategically important oil resources. the adoption of sanctions is never a superficial thing to do. in the case of iran, these measures are all the more necessary as the risk of nuclear proliferation linked to the iranian programme is of growing concern. i therefore think it is very important that the union has shown firmness in the absence of a clear response from iran to the proposal to resume negotiations. the tightening of sanctions and our firm tone sends a clear signal to the iranians that we will not accept the continuation of their nuclear program. finally, for those who argue that sanctions are ineffective and even counterproductive, i want to highlight two aspects that i think are important: sanctions so far have actually hampered iran's nuclear program, and have prevented iran from getting a nuclear bomb. on the other hand, iran has begun to show signs that these measures are having an effect on its economy. sanctions are therefore the key to resolving the nuclear crisis and can bring iran back to the negotiating table. (the president agreed to answer a question by way of a 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to the blue card. i think if i understand the question correctly, we have the same point of view.
iran is in a very sensitive region. an iranian nuclear weapon would be practically an additional threat to the peace of this region and a method of exercising control over neighboring countries. i therefore agree that there is a need to clarify the intentions of this country. however, we have to ask ourselves whether a blanket sanction on iranian oil will have the desired effect. i believe that we cannot punish the whole of society for the mistakes made by the ruling class and therefore the sanctions must be directed at those who hold power, and i want to draw your attention, mrs. ashton, that there is a need for a permanent evaluation of the effects of these new sanctions. at the same time, the european union must constantly encourage dialogue with the iranian side, and, as you said, take advantage of the relationship it has with turkey. but the dialogue must not be limited to the nuclear issue, but must also include the human rights situation, as many of my colleagues have said. on this last point, the european union must obtain from its own companies the cessation of exports of products used precisely to oppress iranian citizens, such as, in particular, electronic products. finally, i would like to stress that the only solution to the tense situation in relations with iran is a peaceful one. military intervention would be a major mistake with disastrous consequences. the european union, through its high representative, must firmly declare that it is against military intervention and reiterate its openness to dialogue.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, this has been an important debate and i have listened with great care to all of the contributions that have been made. i will just try to bring together some of the themes that have been expressed in the house and to take them forward as part of our thinking about how to deal effectively with this extremely important issue of the nuclear aspirations of iran. a number of colleagues, beginning with mr salafranca in his first contribution, talked about the need to work with others to ensure that we are collaborating with our allies, who of course include those that we call the e3+3 – russia, china and the united states plus the uk, france and germany – the six countries which, when we do find ourselves in dialogue with iran, sit behind me as the e3+3 designated by the security council. of course, we are not only talking with those countries. i saw dai bingguo, the state councillor of china, when i was in india the week before last. we are constantly talking with russia – the political director is there currently – as well as with other countries like japan and korea, with the ambition of ensuring that the gap created by eu sanctions is not filled in ways that mean that there would not be an effect on the regime. a number of colleagues have mentioned the role of turkey. i keep in close contact with foreign minister davutoğlu on this issue. turkey has provided a conduit of information and dialogue to iran, being the reinforcer of messages, and also hosted the last round of talks. i pay tribute to the way in which that country has worked with us on this issue. i will be going to brazil this weekend for a number of discussions. one of these will be on what we are doing on iran and why. i take very much the points that have been made about strengthening and broadening the understanding of what the eu is doing, the reasons behind our actions and the need for the international community to stand together to seek a satisfactory resolution. so in all our discussions across the world we are keeping this on the agenda. we keep making the point that the sanctions are important and that their purpose is to try to persuade iran to come to negotiations. it is a twin-track approach, specifically designed to that effect. the second area i wanted to touch on is the effect on the people of iran. we are very clear that what we are seeking to do is to persuade the regime that it needs to come to the talks. i am very worried about iran’s economic capacity. it is a country that should have been able to grow economically. i keep watch over what we are doing, to try to ensure that the effects on the people of iran are minimal but that they also understand what it is that we are doing. as has been said, there are many people in iran who share the aspiration that we have to see iran turn away from its current path. it is also true that we are looking, with the member states, at the effect on the european union of all our work on sanctions. it is vital that we ensure that we understand what we are doing and that we look at the effect that it has. national legal systems are responsible for ensuring there is no circumvention, but the eu as a whole is working together in this direction. colleagues also mentioned the fact that camp ashraf has an iranian population. i have already mentioned a couple of times, in our question hour, the importance that we attach to trying to find a satisfactory solution for the people of camp ashraf. my concern is straightforward. it is to try to find a way in which we can keep them completely safe and give them a future. members of the un are in discussion with member states where there are issues of citizenship, and members of the high commission for refugees are engaged with this, as is martin kobler who, as i have indicated already, will be here tomorrow. we are working closely with the us and with the international community, and we will keep this on the agenda in our discussions with iraq. it is important that we move forward and that the people find a future, not that we simply keep them there because we do not have a plan. there does seem to be, if not a perfect plan, then a compromise solution under which, if we do things properly, there is potential for a future for these people that will keep them safe which, as i have said, is our final objective. my final point concerns something that mr tannock said about the glorious persian culture. absolutely. we are clear in this house, and right across the european union, that our quarrel on this issue is not with the people of iran. we wish them well. we wish to see this glorious persian history and culture rise and be part of the region and part of the international community, but we have obligations as countries and as the european union. those obligations are that, when people sign up to treaties and say they will not move toward nuclear proliferation, they are taking on obligations that they have to respect, and if they do not respect them then we have to do something about it. it is all done within the security council. these issues go back to the security council, and it is the security council which gives me my mandate and with whom the european union works. i do hope that we will have the support to make sure that these sanctions are seen as being an important contribution to getting the other track moving and through that medium, as i do in any other, i am asking the iranians to respond to my letter, to pick up what i left on the table or to come forward with their own ideas and come back to the talks.
in writing. – i strongly support the recent sanctions that the council has decided to impose on iran since its non-cooperative attitude generates serious concerns in europe and worldwide. there are serious doubts about the real objectives of the iranian nuclear programme, which has now become a global threat. given the authoritarian character of the iranian regime, i also believe that the eu should do more in supporting the iranian opposition in iraq. after the brutal attacks last year, iraq has imposed a deadline to close camp ashraf. yesterday the inhabitants were urged by the un’s envoy martin kobler to move to a new location near baghdad which, according to the council of europe statement last week, seems more like a prison, with a very limited living area and a heavy police presence. the hr’s special adviser has been refused a visa to enter iraq to take part in the negotiations. how come this diplomatic insult has been kept quiet by our services while we continue to pay a fortune to help iraq for development? should not our hr take a more active role by trying to organise even video-link interviews with the inhabitants in ashraf to help quickly bring out those with families in europe?
russia's accession to the wto, after 18 years of negotiations, opens up a new perspective on international trade relations. i think we should appreciate the russian side's willingness to modify almost 300 legal provisions to conform to international trade rules, and to agree to reduce its customs duties in numerous industrial sectors. the prospect of a doubling of eu-russia trade in the next 5-10 years is, however, conditional on the modernisation of the russian economy and the full adoption of a real democratic framework. the eu-russia partnership is conditional on respect for democratic values and rules. that's why we are concerned about the fairness of this year's presidential election, especially in the context of the protests that followed the parliamentary elections in december. sunday's appearance on state television of the opposition leader, the first after years of censorship, is an encouraging sign that all candidates will have unfettered access to the media. but this premiere also demonstrates the democratic deficit that russian society suffers from. that's why the electoral process is no guarantee of democracy, unless the elections are not rigged, including during the campaign phase. (the president agreed to answer a question by way of a 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to the blue card. first of all, i would like to thank mr rübig for the question. of course, the conversation is one that i think involves a much more laborious response, but in short, the personal response i don't think will make up for this... the answer is no to his question.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to thank all honourable members who have spoken in what again has been a very important debate. a number of members talked about a moment of hope for change. we have seen that the russian leadership, at least in theory, has acknowledged the need for change. as i said at the beginning of my contribution, we know it is the least risky option, if i can put it like that. there is a lot of work and many reforms ahead. the different concerns that have been expressed in the house are enormously significant. we share that concern and indeed raise it with russia. we want to work with russia as partners on many of the issues that have been raised, including, by the way, in the context of our new agreement, which a number of colleagues mentioned. i want to comment on some of the specific issues that have been raised. i will refer to particular points made by individual members, but that is not to fail to reflect the broader consensus. mr fleckenstein talked about the need to see that voters are given unrestricted choice. that is why registration is such an important issue. as you said in your contribution, sir graham, the registration rules are disproportionate. we understand that the president of the central election committee is going to have to explain himself in the duma, and there are questions there which we need to come back to and which we will continue to raise with russia. we are following matters and talking with the demonstrators and with the opposition via our delegation. helga schmidt, whom i mentioned earlier, was in moscow until today, and has been meeting with them on my behalf over the last couple of days. a number of colleagues also raised the issue of the third energy package. mr kowal, i would say that it shows how important our market is that russia spends so much time lobbying on this. it depends greatly on the eu market, and that is extremely important in our relationship with russia. i agree that opinion is shifting and that the new president will need to think about how he governs differently. that is a significant part of many of the contributions that have been made concerning where russia is going, the demands that people have for change and, in a sense, the atmosphere. a number of you described your visits to russia and talks with individuals about how things are beginning to change. the policy that we are trying to develop is a good one, but it requires us to look at russia from a bilateral set of relationships, as international partners on many things, and at the responsibilities that we have together in the international community. russian civil society is very important, but i would say to those who have raised this issue that the relationship between this parliament and civil society is also extremely valuable. many times in the course of our deliberations about what has happened in north africa, in what is now called the arab spring or the arab uprising, i have raised the fact that members of parliament are critically important in explaining and discussing with people the value and importance of democracy, what it can bring and how to engage with it. i do hope that will continue. mr batten, the important point you make for me is that golos and memorial should be allowed to work freely and i agree with you on that. i agree too on the importance of the bigger picture, and also of the smaller details, and that we need to have the tough discussions with russia that mr svensson talked about. we also know that there is a great deal of interest in the european union. i accept that maybe the duma does not discuss us, ms flašíková, but we do know that there is a lot of interest in the eu from the russian people and from ministers and officials. the eurasian union, which is much talked about now and which i discussed with deputy prime minister shuvalov when i was there in november, is in a sense inspired by the way that the european union works. ms vaidere, i know very well the concerns in latvia about the language issue and i know that it is very sensitive, but i am quite sure that the latvian authorities will handle this well. in conclusion, this has been an important debate as we continue to try to develop the relationship with russia. on the one hand, we see the advantages now within the world trade organization and the capacity we have to develop those trade relationships; we see a more active civil society with which we can engage – we can use the tools that we have to try to engage further; we see the need to continue to press on some of the basic issues that have been quite rightly raised here about the way that the internal situation in russia is developing. then there is russia as an international player with whom we work on issues such as iran. we are increasingly trying to work with it on syria and on other areas where working together in the security council and the importance of collaboration really come to the fore.
in writing. the future of the european union's relations with the russian federation depends, more than ever, on the state of russian democracy. the december parliamentary elections triggered unprecedented protests in moscow and other major cities. we don't know for sure if it was fraud or not. but it's clear that prime minister putin's party has been favored and the massive opposition disadvantaged. there was a disproportion of resources, of access to the media, of treatment by state institutions. the presidential election is coming up. it is legitimate to ensure, by means recognized by the russian federation as well, that they will be conducted fairly and that all candidates will be treated equally. the concept of directed democracy in russia is incompatible with the founding values of the european union. i believe it is in the best interests of the russian federation to conduct the forthcoming elections in a fair manner. this is the best way to build mutual trust.
mr president, the report we are now debating is strategic, comprehensive and sophisticated, addressing europe’s challenge generated by the changing distribution of power within the international system: a process accelerated by the current world crisis. europe, which has created a modern international system, is now facing a double challenge. she has to keep her central place within it while having to fight a nasty internal crisis. in the past century, given europe’s centrality within the international system, war in europe has twice become world war. today, even if war in europe is unthinkable, our continent could still rock the world boat hard, both financially and economically. the west – the us and europe – now has to make room for the newcomers, either in existing bodies such as the un security council or by creating new ones for them such as the g20. brics is a nascent grouping which is relatively heterogeneous, while russia and china are well-established powers. there is a big question mark over the ambitions of brazil and south africa, with india apparently preoccupied primarily with china, which embodies this challenge. how can europe best engage these emerging power centres without destroying the current world international institutional architecture? to engage this power successfully, europe, which will have first to ensure coherence between the national and eu approaches towards them, will need to strike the right balance between change, namely permitting these emerging power centres to achieve their aims, and continuity, namely safeguarding her interests.
as a member of the mercosur delegation, i would like to make a few points about the relationship with brazil, the country with the greatest influence in south america and the greatest chance of becoming a factor of stability in this region. as brazil's main trading partner, the european union generates no less than 22.2% of its total trade volume. i believe that the european union and brazil can and should work together much more intensively, inter alia, in increasing trade, especially following the joint action plan until 2014, and in particular in taking a leading role in international forums on issues such as climate change, economic governance and, not least, human rights.
i stress the importance of intensifying industrial cooperation in the field of space policy between the european union and the brics states. as a member of the european parliament's delegations for relations with mercosur and india, i stress the importance of the eu-mercosur association agreement, which will be the most important association agreement ever signed by the european union, and which covers trade worth $125 billion annually. i also underline brazil's role as a key player in the mercosur region, and welcome the renewal of the eu-brazil strategic partnership, the joint action plan 2012-2014. we regret that the eu-brazil air transport agreement was not signed at the eu-brazil summit in october 2011. as regards eu-india relations, particular attention should be paid to cooperation in the field of cybersecurity and personal data protection. i appreciate the role of the european investment bank, which has allocated 1 billion euros through the renewable energy and energy security facility to the implementation of energy projects in india.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mr saryusz-wolski, on the elaboration of this comprehensive report. the partnership with the brics economies is the basis for sustainable development for the union. i want to highlight both the accelerated demographic evolution in these states and their rapid economic growth. i draw your attention to paragraph s, which emphasizes the shared values and principles of the two groups. cooperation with the brics countries in a manner adapted to national specificities should be encouraged. at the same time, dialogue fora should include issues such as combating climate change or access to rare earths. collaboration in these areas between brics and the eu can lead to more effective intervention and visible results. joint strategies are needed to take account of economic and cultural differences.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, with your indulgence, can i just inform the honourable members about what has happened in egypt tonight. there has been an incident at a football stadium in port said and approximately 73 people have been killed and hundreds injured. it appears to have come at the end of the match, when fans went onto the pitch. i have already sent condolences directly to the foreign minister of egypt, for which i have had his thanks and acknowledgement, but i am sure the honourable members would want to be informed and of course would want to join me in expressing our condolences and shock at this terrible incident. mr president, i just thought it was worth interrupting my own remarks to inform the honourable members about this terrible tragedy. in returning to the subject of our debate, i would like to say that this is a big area of priority for our work and to thank again mr saryusz-wolski and all of those who have contributed to the report and to the debate tonight. as i said at the beginning, when i laid out my own priorities for my work, strategic partnerships were critical – not just for the bilateral relationships which so many have spoken about, but also because of their significance as partners as we tackle some of the global challenges. i have already indicated some of the ways in which we work with them individually. we have strong relationships with all the countries that we call the brics. we have delegations, which are very active, and we have a considerable number of meetings – not just myself, and not just in country, or in brussels, but across the different international meetings that we have. it is not unusual to be meeting with ministers many times in the course of a year. these are important because they keep us in touch, as well as serving as regular contacts. my fellow commissioners also spend a great deal of energy on developing those strong links on some of the issues that honourable members have raised, whether it is climate change or development, education or other areas of work. perhaps i should pick up especially on two. we talk about the strong economic weight, and a number of honourable members have raised that. i think the work that we do together in developing and enhancing our bilateral trade work is very significant. with some countries, like brazil, it is all part of a broader strategic approach in mercosur. with others, such as india, we are in the final stages of trying to close a free trade agreement. with others, such as china, we are developing those links that are so important if we are to tackle some of the issues, for example intellectual property rights and the level playing field of trade and investment that are so critical to european industry and business and our future. so it is extremely important work, not just with ministries but with chambers of commerce and supporting industry. in our delegations, as the honourable members know, we have officials from the commission who work on these issues as their priority, and this is how they spend their time while they are in country. i just want to focus in my final remark on development, because this is a theme that has also been raised. we have enormous engagement with all these countries in two different ways. first of all, honourable members have pointed to the fact that for some of them there are still real challenges of poverty: india is an obvious example. so, although the engagement may change and may not be in the way that it used to be, it is about engaging with them to provide support, for example with climate change, energy and some of the key areas of work where the commission has played such a vital role and will continue to do in the future. but it is also about them as partners in development. talking with our colleagues in brazil, we have worked hard to develop how we can work together, for example in delivering our development in africa. this is an area that i think we need to consider working on further, where we are able to collaborate and use our contributions more effectively by thinking through the strategy of how we work on our development priorities. so all of these areas are ways in which we can continue to develop our individual bilateral relations. but i accept that when they coordinate, they create in a sense a collaborative approach on certain issues. we certainly need to be able to respond to that approach, while recognising that, primarily, they are distinct and separate countries with different histories and traditions and certainly different relationships with us. i would just like to thank mr saryusz-wolski again for this work and to commend him for putting forward this important report and to say to honourable members that we will of course continue actively to pursue our work with brazil, russia, india, china and south africa, together and, most importantly, individually.
in writing. to become increasingly important in the field of global foreign policy, brics and other emerging powers need to continue and strengthen their economic growth. as the current economic crisis demonstrates, there is a strong interdependence between the existing powers and the emerging powers. so to strengthen the economic growth of the latter is clearly necessary economic growth and economic well-being of the former. in this context, the eu must act as one strong political and economic entity to continue to promote universal values in the new multipolar system of global governance. but a major concern is the tendency to overregulate the financial market, which only leads to capital flows to the bric countries with fair regulations. the associated effects are particularly severe, ranging from the increase in the cost of financing for european companies to the loss of their competitiveness. transnational challenges such as climate change, global regulatory issues, access to raw materials and rare earth elements, terrorism, sustainable development, political stability and global security will require an approach based on shared values, consensus, consultation and close cooperation with the new emerging powers.
in writing. – i agree with the statement that there are significant political, economic and social divergences among the brics countries. we also have to take into consideration the instrument of strategic partnerships in the eu’s relationships. furthermore, it is not in the interest of the eu to consider brics countries as a bloc. we have to be aware of our place in the world and the importance of our relationship with other actors. the report points out that brics have shown regional integration capacity and hence the capacity to engage in multipolar governance systems. there is a potential interest of the brics in contributing to global governance. what i want to point out is that opportunities for collaboration can appear in investments, exchange of experience, technology and research partnerships in major projects.
i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr santiago fisas, for having started from the beginning with the idea of consensus. we have discussed each paragraph separately and have sought to ensure that all political groups can find their way into this report, that it is a report in which there are no differences but, on the contrary, it encompasses everyone's views. and here's to santiago fisas for getting us all to the same table. however, given the importance of sport in the european union, hundreds of amendments have been tabled, and again, a special merit of the rapporteur is that the report itself is not just an x-ray of sport in the european union. this report has not only presented sport as it is today in the european union, but on the contrary, it contains innovative paragraphs and ideas, bold ideas that we have supported, debated, some have withdrawn, others have remained in the project. it is very important that sensitive issues were touched upon, such as the status of minors playing sports, sports betting and so on. we all know, and we have seen the opinion of the expert committees, that sport is more than a recreational activity. it has very important implications for health, education, reducing violence, the economy and so on, increasing productivity and all that means a stable and performing economy in the future. therefore, i believe that just 1% of the budget for the 'erasmus for all' programme is far too little for sport, given the implications that sport has in the european union. that's why i say we should campaign for more money for sports.
as vice-president of the committee on transport and tourism, i would stress that sporting events contribute to the development of tourism in europe, and in this regard synergies between sport and tourism must be identified, especially through the modernisation of collective infrastructure. an example of the synergy between regional development, sport, transport and tourism is the tourism potential of cycling. the eurovelo project, which already has 14 european routes covering over 70 000 kilometres, is an example of contributing to positive values, promoting social integration and strengthening communities, promoting health, urban development. i would like to stress the importance of the cycle path which runs along the entire danube for the development of tourism in the danube region. i also stress the role of local, regional and national authorities in developing the european dimension of sport, in particular by developing urban mobility plans and allocating financial resources to developing the infrastructure required for sporting activities.
for the excellent, comprehensive and welcome report in the context of the debate on the special role of sport. one of the most complex activities, sport, has implications in a wide range of areas, from health to tourism and the economy, from education to social inclusion and the promotion of peace. i insist on the attention that must be given to both professional and amateur sports. it is well known that investments in sports activities significantly reduce public health expenditure. i am therefore supporting the practice of sport by the elderly as well as by children. providing schools with the necessary equipment for physical education classes is vital to encourage the minimum three hours of sport recommended by the european parliament. these are just some of the arguments for having a dedicated budget for sport in the future multiannual financial framework, so as to respect a component conferred on the eu by the lisbon treaty. thank you and congratulations, mr. vice president, and good luck in your new position.
in writing. sport can make a significant contribution to achieving the objectives set out in the european commission's europe 2020 strategy for rapid, sustainable and constant development. according to recent estimates, 15 million people in the eu are directly or indirectly employed in the sports sector and, according to the same estimates, this sector amounts to 3.65% of the eu's gdp. major sporting events, such as the olympic games or the european football championships, attract millions of spectators and generate substantial economic and employment effects. however, the potential of sport as an area has not yet been fully exploited, although article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union now contains the legal bases for including sport in existing european programmes. i ask the european commission to include sport in the erdf and esf programmes. this would significantly improve the conditions for financing sport projects.
i would like to draw attention to the fact that two very important treaties are being discussed these days, acta and the stability treaty. these are two treaties that are radically affecting people's lives, these are rules, these are very tough measures that will be taken in the future and that will affect both the private lives of european citizens and their jobs and their living standards. there are countries in the european union where these treaties have not been publicly debated at all. they are heads of state who have not even once discussed the two treaties in the national parliament. nobody in romania, for example, knows what acta means, or what the stability treaty means. this is not democracy, and if we want to get out of the crisis, if we want to have a united and strong europe, we must defend democratic values.
on the twelfth of january, many romanians are in the streets. they are european citizens, like all of us here, and the european parliament cannot remain deaf to their cry. they are citizens who want to live in a european country where elections are not rigged just to give an advantage to the parties in government, who want to live in a european country where the administrative-territorial organization is not changed without a referendum and without consultation, in a european country where laws are not adopted without parliamentary debate in defiance of political pluralism, in a european country where the health system is not changed overnight and where more than 1% of gross domestic product is not cut from wages to increase spending on goods and services by a similar amount. they are european citizens who want to go to the polls as soon as possible so that they can make a change.
i was shocked to see in the press this morning a cartoon, a racist and xenophobic cartoon published and even made by a french politician, a member of the national front and a candidate for the legislative elections. in an unpermitted and indecent way, he insults the romanian people with a phrase that i find it difficult to repeat, the politician says: "beware of santa claus in romania, who comes through your door and leaves with the tv". mr. poncet generalizes in an unpermitted way, offending a working and educated people, who have always been on the side of france and the values that france represents. the leadership of the french national front has criticized this politicist message, i expect our three colleagues from the national front to do the same.
romania's political situation is experiencing a moment of crisis that attacks the democratic foundations of the rule of law. in the last three years, things have deteriorated to the point where citizens have taken to the streets, as they say here, in a series of protests unprecedented in the last two decades. the current government has governed badly, violated civil liberties, caused a lot of social suffering, put in parentheses fundamental institutions like parliament, tried to abolish political pluralism, invented parliamentary parties to support its government, but which never got the ballot box. in these circumstances, the opposition has decided today to adopt the more drastic form of political action, that of refusing to participate in the work of the parliament, thus trying to respect its dignity and constitutional rights. we also call for a return to democratic and civilized behaviour in accordance with european political values.
hungary's new constitution has been the subject of criticism in the press and in parliament. several have made serious accusations against the hungarian government. i won't go into details, but i've been told before. the critics are often not familiar with the conditions, laws, and daily life in hungary. as a representative of the hungarian minority in romania, i follow closely the internal politics not only of hungary, but also of romania, slovakia, and even serbia. my fellow members of the house of representatives! if you are concerned about human and minority rights, i would like to draw your attention to the state law still in force in slovakia and to the deprivation of citizenship of people, which is prohibited by the current slovak constitution. i would also like to draw your attention to the slovak language law. but i would also draw your attention to romania, where the provisions of the current education act are ignored when it comes to the establishment of minority faculties. if you are concerned about the rule of law, please do so in a credible manner, avoiding the appearance that you are only interested in the actions of the government of one country.
i would like to draw your attention to a tragic incident which has apparently gone unnoticed in brussels, which occurred on 1 january in the separatist region of transnistria. moldovan citizen vadim pisari, just 18 years old, was killed at the checkpoint vadul lui vodă by a russian peacekeeper. this incident has shaken the whole society and aroused a sense of insecurity among them. the tragedy reminds us that a frozen conflict is at the gates of the european union, and its unresolvedness delays the republic of moldova's rapprochement with the european union. in transnistria, the romanian-speaking population is discriminated against and their human rights are flagrantly violated. the solution to the transnistrian conflict requires the transformation of the peacekeeping mission into a civilian one with an international mandate. i call for the eu to be more firmly involved in clarifying the situation.
the intergovernmental agreement signed by 25 member states on 30 january is a commitment to strengthen fiscal discipline. we regret the lack of a similarly firm commitment to boosting employment, especially among young people, and to boosting the economy's finances. disappointed by the current government, which has increased the number of families at risk of poverty, which has the lowest rate of absorption of structural funds, which has adopted fundamental laws such as the labour code, the national education law, the law on the commutation of elections, fortunately the last declared unconstitutional, romanian citizens have decided to publicly express their concern for their future. the popular movements of the last three weeks in many cities of romania demand one essential thing: we want to trust politicians, we want to trust democracy. like romanian citizens, all european citizens expect not only to be committed to austerity but, above all, to respect democracy and the chance to contribute to the development of the societies in which they live.
at this moment in bucharest the temperature is approaching -20°c and yet people are still protesting in the city center, as they have been doing for more than two weeks. it's the same in other cities across the country. these people are putting their health at risk because they're tired of being humiliated and deceived by those who rule them. they are all desperate, not only because they are denied the right to a decent life in their country, romania, but also because the political power despises, ignores and disregards them. their desperation is only surpassed by the tenacity with which they continue to protest. over 90% of romanians want the president and the government to leave. but the regime has resorted to deeply undemocratic gestures, such as attempting to postpone and combine elections and change the electoral law, defying not only the rules of democracy but also the people who win their discontent and demand their country back.
yesterday's public debate in the european parliament on the serious democratic failings in romania during the basescu-boc government aroused great interest among romanians in the country and the diaspora, as well as among many foreign citizens and fellow meps from various eu member states. although this event was organised by the s&d and alde groups, the epp group was also present in the hall, represented by several romanian meps belonging to the party currently in government in romania, whose only participation was limited to strenuous efforts to prevent the smooth running of the work and to lower the level of the debates, trying, through tactics well known to romanians, to divert attention to the area of triviality and subjects unrelated to the content of the debates. once again, however, the european parliament has proved to be a forum in which such behaviour is not tolerated, with the audience immediately sanctioning such troublemakers with outright disapproval. i would like to thank my foreign european colleagues and the romanians in the country and in the diaspora who were present yesterday at this event and assure them that romanians of good faith will continue the fight to regain a democratically, fairly and honestly governed romania.
this resolution lists 115 cases of citizens from 14 member states complaining of violations of the waste management directive. but we know that there are many more such cases, even if not all of them have been brought to the attention of the peti commission, i know at least one in romania, where the case is being investigated at the regional level. this situation is a grave sign of the failure of many national governments to enforce this vital legislation to protect the environment and the health of our citizens. but the situation of waste from mining activities is also of concern. i have repeatedly expressed my concern about this, both in parliament and directly to the european commission. the commission assures us that the mining waste directive contains sufficient environmental protection provisions, including those concerning cyanide mining. but i would ask the commission to answer the following question: what will happen if the mining waste directive is to have the same scope as the waste management directive? it does not take a high imagination to see that the consequences of such a situation would be truly catastrophic.
petitions to the european parliament point to cases of non-compliance with union legislation on environmental impact assessment and public consultation, as well as citizens' concerns about the risk of pollution in the waste management process. in most member states, major investments are required to put in place waste management strategies, infrastructure and appropriate facilities. i ask the commission to support the member states in the process of implementing european legislation, through appropriate funding mechanisms and clear and precise guidelines and criteria for the location of the deposits in relation to homes, schools, local health centres and drinking water sources, in order to provide stronger safeguards against possible risks to human health and the environment. dialogue with citizens is essential from the planning phase. i stress the importance of impact studies and their public debate. i encourage member states to support more local and regional authorities to implement optimal waste management models.
in writing. given that waste and pollution represent serious threats with direct repercussions on human health and the integrity of the environment, i believe it is the duty of all member states to accelerate the introduction of appropriate and advanced waste management strategies, in accordance with the current directive. we all know that in most member states major investments are needed to put in place waste management strategies, infrastructure and facilities. i therefore believe that public authorities should also consider allocating an appropriate proportion of the cohesion fund resources to this purpose or requesting financing directly from the european investment bank.
in writing. the eu waste industry is a public burden, often taken over by private interests and multinational companies, which treat 60% of household waste and 75% of waste produced by companies, with an annual turnover of eur 75 billion. analysis of waste policies in the eu member states reveals significant differences. some member states, including romania, are lagging behind in implementing waste management strategies and, in this context, the historical legacy and over-reliance on landfills, together with an attitude towards landfilling that should be changed, have contributed to the emergence of many serious breaches of eu legislation. article 4 of the new waste framework directive mandates a waste hierarchy: prevention, preparation for re-use, recycling or other forms of re-use - including energy production and safe incineration - leaving landfills in last place. calls on member states facing a clear waste crisis to take into account that a number of more efficient waste management strategies offer opportunities for job creation and income growth, while ensuring environmental sustainability through reuse, recycling and waste-to-energy.
i congratulate the rapporteur and i think that the whole parliament should support this programme becoming independent as from 2014, because the phenomenon is still present, it is becoming more and more pronounced, it is becoming more and more insidious and more sophisticated, and i think that the scale and the costs, especially the social costs, which are not clearly assessed at the moment, can influence the european standard of civilization.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mr bastos, on the preparation of this report. it is necessary that the daphne programme be adequately funded. this provides the necessary means to combat violence in its various forms, both in the private and public spheres. i stress the importance of paragraph g. the economic crisis makes women more vulnerable to abuse. today, my country is running the 'open doors' programme, co-financed by the european commission through the daphne iii programme. it is in partnership with austria, the uk, the czech republic, greece and slovenia. it's for immigrant women who have been victims of violence. the initiative offers them the chance to integrate into romanian society, while being community leaders in the field.
the reporter. - i do not think i will be able to cover all the issues in this report in four minutes, but i would like to highlight a few points which i consider essential. this report is timely because, unfortunately, rape as a weapon of war was invented by primitive societies, and it is present as a weapon of war in modern and so-called civilized societies. it's a current issue, it's a high-impact issue, high-impact social issue in particular, that can change the behavioral matrix and the reaction of nations. for example, in the congo conflict alone, there are about 16 rapes a day, proving that the phenomenon is far from being eradicated and fought. peace and security cannot be dissociated, in the view of this report, and they can only be thought of together. but they can only be thought of through a gender perspective, a gender perspective, built together by women and men in a partnership that looks at both conflict prevention, looks at how conflict unfolds, but mostly looks at what is called peacekeeping and post-conflict resolution. the european union has tried to take essential steps to prevent and combat this phenomenon. unfortunately, the national plans as requested are only present in 10 member states, 5 member states are in the process of drawing up these plans, which proves that we are still a step backwards in relation to the objectives we have set ourselves. i believe that the establishment of the external action service gives the european union the opportunity to be more present in addressing this type of problem. the report calls for delegations that negotiate peace, delegations that are involved in conflict, to be built on a gender approach, women to be part of these delegations, because their perspective can be useful in helping much faster and more effectively to what is called peace and social tranquility. another key point in the report concerns impunity. as i said, justice and peace cannot be separated, but unfortunately, in practice, the phenomenon of impunity is present. although we can have access to the international criminal court, i think we need to find much more effective legal levers, so that in a post-conflict situation, the investigations and the prosecution of the perpetrators of these reprehensible acts, criminal acts, are carried out, because otherwise we will end up with a major victimization of the people who suffered such acts, and, if you will, a major victimization of society. i believe that this partnership between the european union and the united nations must be concretized in the implementation of resolution 1960, and not only that. i believe that the european union has an obligation to be a firm partner of the united nations in combating this phenomenon. that is why we are calling for the creation of a european union representative on women and security within the eeas. it is not a superfluous request, but on the contrary, it is a request for a firm commitment by the european union to combat this phenomenon. we believe, however, that a number of rules should also apply to those involved in the war and peace processes. we believe that the military structures of the member states must take into account a gender perspective, not a quantitative one, but a particularly qualitative one, because fortunately in the european union there are women who can cope with the highest positions in the military and civilian forces, and for this the member states must consider a gender perspective in their military structures, which is a new issue. i thank you, as i said, i have not been able to exhaust the topics, but let me just say one thing: i must thank all the shadow rapporteurs and all the political groups for working together on this report.
and the security and defense committee is very concerned about this subject. i agree with the rapporteur that war criminals who commit crimes against women must be brought to justice more quickly, as impunity is not negotiable in these cases. unfortunately, in today's world of conflict, violence against women is used as a tactic of war, and unfortunately, these cases often go unreported and unpunished. that is why i believe that the european external action service should appoint a special observer for the protection of women in conflict zones, to ensure the protection of women from all forms of sexual or gender-based violence.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me start by thanking the rapporteur, ms nicolai, most sincerely. thank you, too, for the scheduling of this item immediately after we talked about a similar issue here in europe. in the european union we take very seriously the issue of the role of women, and in particular the role of women in peace and security through implementation of united nations security council resolution 1325 and other related resolutions. our approach is a comprehensive one: we bring this concern to all our external instruments and all related policies and programmes. in 2008 the eu adopted a comprehensive approach on the implementation of two resolutions – 1325 and 1820 – covering the whole range of policy tools available to it during and after conflict. the approach is based on the ‘three ps’ of resolution 1325: women’s participation, protection and the prevention of violence against women. let me say a word here about funding. we have the eu instrument for stability, which is a key instrument that we can apply for stabilising measures and capacity-building measures. in this instrument we have fully mainstreamed the gender perspective; and protection of the most vulnerable – the most vulnerable in humanitarian catastrophes being children, women, the handicapped and the elderly – is often a key objective of what i do as commissioner for humanitarian aid. we support the protection of women, especially in conflict zones, through our humanitarian aid instrument, but we also support the empowerment of women through cash-for-work programmes that specifically target women in conflict zones. i will be in the democratic republic of the congo in three weeks’ time and my main objective will indeed be this issue: the issue that is the topic of this report, the protection of women, and specifically stopping the rape of women as an instrument of war. overall, the eu is active in more than 70 countries, and the eu institutions and member states have reported allocating a total of approximately eur 200 million in 2009 and early 2010. let me now turn to the eu common security and defence policy (csdp). most csdp missions and operations include a human rights and gender exercise. we now have a package of three fully fledged training modules on human rights, gender and child protection in the context of csdp, which are being finalised in 2012. we also work very closely with the eu military staff in order to have a good common understanding of all the humanitarian aspects in conflicts, but in particular of how conflicts affect the most vulnerable – among them, women. while we do a lot on the external side, it is also important to perform well internally by appointing women negotiators or mediators. by appointing more women in key positions in the european external action service, our member states are the most proactive in the un context. thirteen of the eu member states have adopted national action plans. others, like germany, have come up with special initiatives on women, peace and security. the first eu report on the indicators that measured the implementation of un security council resolution 1325 was finalised in may 2011. it shows that the eu has taken concrete steps to enhance protection of most vulnerable groups, including women. we can be proud of our efforts but we still need to be vigilant and go on working in all forums and in all countries to tackle sexual violence in conflicts and to ensure women’s meaningful participation in peace processes and public representation. to respond to the question on whether the eu is considering appointing a special representative, vice-president/high representative ashton announced in december that she is looking into the creation of the post of eu special representative for human rights, and is considering the definition of this function. let me finish by saying thank you very much for this discussion today.
in writing. – in order to encourage their participation in situations of war, women must be visible contributors to the prevention, mediation and resolution of conflicts. beyond engaging in behind-the-scenes roles, assuming leadership roles is key to building upon the foundation of gender equality. as women account for half of the eu population, it is logical that their participation in these three phases mirrors this statistic. aside from this simple democratic principle, what is perhaps the strongest argument for women’s participation is the unique perspective they bring to the table and the message their empowerment sends to the world. women need to be better represented in the military, for example, not just to fill a proportional requirement but also because they interact and communicate more effectively with local women. on the other spectrum, local women’s empowerment must be strengthened. education is a crucial means through which local women can gain integrity and be better equipped to engineer preventive measures against war and violence in their communities. in addition to the active participation of a proportional representation of women at the negotiation table, women’s knowledge is also critical in the peace-building process as women are more aware of the challenges faced by their communities.
the cross-border transfer of companies is one of the essential elements in the completion of the internal market and articles 49 and 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the union guarantee the freedom of establishment of european companies anywhere in the european union. however, the lack of uniformity in legislation on the transfer and modalities of the transfer of a company's registered office, as well as the employment risk, administrative difficulties, associated costs, social implications and lack of legal certainty, make the transfer difficult to achieve. we ask the commission to present a proposal for a directive on the crossborder transfer of head offices, so that the transfer only takes place after the management or board of directors of a company planning a transfer has drawn up a transfer plan for which the employees of that company have also been consulted. i believe that egovernment services and single points of contact, created under the services directive, can simplify the administrative burden in the event of a company transfer.
improving access to energy services contributes to the quality of life of the population. it is especially necessary for people living in poverty. in this regard, access to energy should become a priority in the debate on poverty eradication. i would point out that the difficult access to modern energy services puts women and children at a particular disadvantage. i support putting this issue on the agenda for the rio+20 summit in june. i support the idea of creating a specific programme on energy and development at european level. private investment should also be encouraged to increase the accessibility of these services to the population. i would stress the importance of financing projects in the field of renewable electricity sources. for example, in romania, green energy producers are set to receive €300 million in green certificates this year.
globally, some 1.3 billion people, 84% of whom live in rural areas, lack access to electricity, and 2.7 billion people lack current cooking facilities, leading to smoke in homes and over 1.4 million premature deaths each year. improving access to energy requires an estimated annual investment of usd 48 billion by 2030, equivalent to 3% of the global investment in energy infrastructure projected by 2030. i believe that access to modern and sustainable energy services for all is a prerequisite for achieving the millennium development goals, and i support the inclusion of universal access to energy in these goals from 2015. at the rio+20 summit, the union should propose concrete targets for the eradication of energy poverty and a roadmap for their achievement.
in writing. lack of access to electricity is a serious problem not only worldwide, affecting some 1.3 billion people, but even in some european union states. in romania, for example, many isolated rural areas are still without electricity, which has led to a worrying depopulation of the villages in these parts of the country. the same effect of rural neglect is also experienced by the lack of roads or sewerage. in these circumstances, it is important to maintain the second pillar of the future common agricultural policy, the one dedicated to rural development, and in particular to maintain the possibility of financing infrastructure investments, whether in electricity, gas or roads.
we can only have a fully functioning single market if the 500 million people of the european union enjoy all the rights of the community. unfortunately, reality has shown that our citizens face many obstacles to transnational activity, unacceptable obstacles that can undermine the very idea of the single market in the european union. at a time of high mobility of european citizens, i believe that special rules for crossborder and mobile workers should be adopted immediately, taking into account the interaction of tax and social security systems in different member states. i believe that better coordination and cooperation between the tax administrations of the member states will lead to the removal of transnational tax obstacles and to the harmonisation of national rules, which is so necessary for citizens and companies in the european union.
the main function of tax systems is to finance public services such as education, health services, public transport and infrastructure, protect public goods and reduce social inequalities through a more balanced distribution of income and wealth. fiscal policies should aim to encourage growth and job creation, enhance the union's competitiveness, reduce costs for businesses, especially smes. effective taxation helps public authorities to meet their obligations and citizens' expectations. the commission and the member states should continue to cooperate in combating double taxation, tax fraud and tax evasion, in order to increase transparency and to reduce shortcomings and uncertainties for businesses and citizens in tax collection. i would stress the importance of the initiative on the introduction of electronic invoices, equal treatment from 2013 onwards for vat on electronic and paper invoices, and e-government services for the efficiency and transparency of tax collection.
the lack of coordination of tax policies at eu level is an obstacle to cross-border activities and investments. it can also lead to evasion, abuse and fraud. europe needs a strategy of fiscal consolidation, the fiscal obstacles affecting transnational mobility must be removed. i support the commission's initiative to set up a working group on double taxation. i would stress that this mechanism increases the overall tax burden and has a negative effect on capital investment. in the medium and long term, it threatens the competitiveness of european societies. double taxation conventions can help to address these problems. according to a recent study, after the adoption of such a convention, bilateral portfolio investment can increase by up to 50%. romania has concluded double taxation agreements with 90 countries.
in view of the increasing number, frequency, scale and severity of humanitarian disasters affecting several areas of the world, i welcome the commission's initiative to increase the budget of the instrument for humanitarian aid in the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework to an annual average of around eur 915 million. another proposed measure is to increase the emergency aid reserve to €2.5 billion for the same period and to propose carrying over unused funds from the reserve to the following year. i believe that the union budget should support actions to anticipate, prevent and respond to disasters and to facilitate the launching of actions to overcome crisis situations. we demand special treatment for children as well as pregnant women and mothers with small children in terms of food, clothing, evacuation and transportation, and necessary medical services.
statistics from the past few decades show an increase in the frequency of natural disasters around the world. at the same time, the union's budget for humanitarian aid and civil protection is constantly growing. in this respect, sound financial management is essential, because the union needs a more realistic humanitarian fund. i stress the need to maintain a balance between the financing of disaster preparedness and emergency aid. europe needs to have formal mechanisms in place to prevent abuse. transparency of cooperation with international organisations is important. at the same time, the eu must ensure coherence between humanitarian and development assistance, otherwise it could have a negative effect on local markets. for example, surplus food aid can discourage local food production.
in the second part of paragraph 6 we would like to replace 'only' with 'mainly'. as i said yesterday, we need a firm union position on iran, the epp is not in favour of sanctions for sanctions' sake, the decision to adopt sanctions is not taken lightly, and unfortunately in the case of iran we have very serious grounds for concern. we have to be very firm and not dilute our message.
i voted for this resolution because i share the concerns about the iranian nuclear program. its military dimension can have major security implications with global, not just regional, effects. this is why efforts to find a solution must be stepped up, combining firm measures with proposals for dialogue. at the same time, the effects of sanctions must be assessed on a continuous basis in order to determine their effectiveness. in this context, i would like to remind you of the importance of coordinating with other international actors in order to achieve real results. turkey can play a positive role in efforts to resolve the iranian dossier. i hope that cooperation with ankara in this area will be intensified. i call on the authorities in tehran to respond to invitations to negotiate and avoid escalating the situation by blocking the strait of hormuz.
i welcome the report by my colleague on the european dimension of sport. i would particularly like to highlight the role of sport in strengthening european cohesion and in fostering an atmosphere free of intolerance. in connection with this report, let me draw your attention to a strange incident: recently, the national ice hockey teams of romania and hungary played in the hungarian-majority town of csixzereda in romania. as the romanian national ice hockey team includes only players from the hungarian minority community in romania, with the exception of two players, during the usual hymn singing before the match, these players also sang the hungarian national anthem. the case received special attention in the romanian mainstream press, with many accusing the hungarian national hockey team, which is almost entirely made up of romanian national teams, of treason. it is time for mutual respect and tolerance to define not only the atmosphere of sporting events but also public manifestations, because in this case it was not the gestures of the fans that fueled the intolerance, but the malicious manipulative activity of romanian politicians and representatives of the romanian press. by the way, the match was won by romans 4 to 1.
madam president, i welcomed the positive vote on the iturgaiz report. through it the parliament is adding its voice to the numerous petitions sent by citizens from all over europe to call on member states to properly transpose the waste framework directive. it has become clear that the management of waste disposal is posing a political and social problem in many member states and the european commission has a fundamental role in controlling and guiding them to ensure the proper enforcement of the eu waste acquis at national level and raise greater environmental awareness among citizens. this is the right time to stop saying waste is an issue and turn it into an opportunity for job and business creation because efficient waste management strategies can provide enormous opportunities for both employment creation and revenue enhancement while ensuring environmental sustainability.
i voted in favour of the report drawn up by mr iturgaiz in the context of the intensification of discussions on waste recycling. as a member of the committee on petitions, i have often taken part in debates on this subject. i would point out that the new member states are the last in recycling, although they produce less waste than the european average. romania is among the countries targeted by petitions in the field of waste management. to meet eu standards, my country is currently implementing the integrated waste management system. by 2015, it will lead to the closure of non-green waste dumps and the development of recyclable waste sorting stations. the current ramps pose a heightened risk to both the environment and the human communities in their vicinity.
in writing. − as the european union is one of the main actors interested in strengthening international institutions and building new international regimes addressing areas such as climate change or trade in goods, it is important that the union takes the first step towards building a new global system of governance by approaching relations with the rising powers in a constructive and pragmatic manner. the strategic partnerships concluded by the european union with these countries must be the starting point of this new foreign policy.
in writing. - the bric countries have experienced significant economic growth in recent years, which, in the context of the crisis, has produced shifts in the global balance of influence. but these countries, with the exception of russia, are still developing countries, with the highest concentration of poverty in the world. there is a risk that this accelerated economic growth will accentuate inequalities, despite significant progress, especially in the case of brazil. it is estimated that by 2020, china will become the world's largest economy, and by 2050, the economies of the seven major emerging economies will be stronger than those of the g7. with its growing political role commensurate with its economic weight, the bric core also has a growing responsibility in driving global social progress as well as international development policy. i hope that the common concern to complement aid effectiveness with development effectiveness will become a common platform for strengthening the involvement of emerging countries in development policies.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the eu's external policy towards the brics and other emerging powers, as the eu needs to work towards a better link between its foreign and security policy and eu sectoral policies such as development, energy security, trade, access to raw materials and rare earth elements, climate change and migration. the resolution highlights: the importance of brazil as the main power in the regional integration process represented by mercosur and the eu-brazil strategic partnership; the key role of the eu-russia strategic partnership in maintaining peace and security in europe, in enhancing trade and economic development, in maintaining energy security; the importance of the eu-india strategic partnership; the importance of china as a major economic power and its key role in the global economic recovery. relations with the brics countries should be developed on the basis of bilateral dialogues focusing on and stimulating democratisation and strengthening the rule of law, good governance, regulatory convergence, coordination of common positions in international fora and intensification of relations with the eu. the overall coordination of eu foreign policy towards brics and other emerging powers should be ensured by the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy.
in writing. - we read in the press about the fabulous wealth of political leaders. for example, estimates of the personal wealth of hosni mubarak and his family range from $50 billion to $70 billion, with the bulk of that wealth invested in the eu and the us. kim jong-il also holds approximately $4 billion in european banks. and as a final example, omar al-bashir, the president of sudan, is suspected of embezzling $9 billion, which came from the oil boom that his country experienced, and which is largely deposited in british banks. this is why eu member states must strictly enforce travel bans against sanctioned persons for travel to eu territory for non-humanitarian purposes. it is equally important that eu member states investigate and, where appropriate, prosecute any natural or legal person in europe who has assisted sanctioned leaders and persons associated with them to evade or circumvent sanctions imposed by law against them.
in writing. − i voted for the recommendation to the council on a consistent policy towards regimes to which the eu applies restrictive measures concerning the personal and commercial interests of their leaders within the eu. according to article 21 of the eu treaty, 'the union's action on the international scene shall be guided by the principles which have inspired its creation, development and enlargement and which it intends to promote throughout the world: democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law'. regimes to which the eu applies restrictive measures with regard to the personal and commercial interests of their leaders within the eu are regimes that violate human rights, fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and the principles of good governance. these restrictive measures are intended to promote international peace and security and the principles of article 21 teu. the measures taken must also not have a negative impact on the civilian population, in particular its most vulnerable categories. i believe that in order to increase the effectiveness of these measures and the eu's credibility internationally, it is important for the union to act unitedly and coherently.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the union needs a harmonised regime for the regulation of crossborder transfer of companies: the freedom of a company to transfer its registered office is one of the essential elements in the completion of the internal market; it is important that the transfer does not affect the rights of the parties to the proceedings before the transfer; respect for the rights of workers and their protection against dismissal is essential; at the same time, adequate protection should be ensured for minority shareholders opposing the transfer; the transfer procedure needs to be transparent and to take place under fiscal neutrality conditions; maintaining the continuity of the company's legal personality is important. i would point out, however, that the transfer should not circumvent the legal, social and fiscal conditions of the company.
in writing. − at present, companies can only transfer their registered office either by their own dissolution and the creation of a new legal entity in the host member state, or by the creation of a new legal entity in the host member state and the subsequent merger of the two companies. administrative difficulties, which generate costs and social effects without providing legal certainty, should also not be forgotten. for these reasons, i consider the recommendations contained in this report to be relevant and i support them. the interdependence between the registered office and the place of business is not justified, since the transfer of the place of business cannot be made conditional upon the transfer of the registered office. finally, companies are free to establish their own separate business and social headquarters, depending on the level of taxation, labour costs, predictability of legislation, the degree of bureaucracy, the qualifications of the workforce, etc.
in writing. − the cross-border transfer of companies' headquarters to countries outside the european union is a problem that is felt in the labour market, especially as the union's concern in this period is to increase the employment rate of the labour force. the 23 million unemployed in the union, including 5 139 000 young people under the age of 24, are a cause for concern for all the countries of europe. to counteract the effects of this phenomenon on the labour market, i believe that effective public and private management is needed, a vibrant partnership between the two areas, so as to ensure a favourable environment for investment and a better use of the structural and cohesion funds. the freedom of cross-border migration of companies, as laid down in the treaty on european union, is a fundamental aspect of the functioning of the internal market. in this context, i believe that the free movement of workers within the european area plays a key role, making a significant contribution to reducing the existing gaps between regions. the ambitious targets for reducing youth unemployment and supporting growth, set by the commission at the informal council meeting earlier this month, can be achieved by increasing the mobility of companies and workers across the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution containing recommendations to the commission on a new company law directive on crossborder transfer of registered offices because i believe it is important to remove the barriers faced by companies when they want to transfer their registered office to another member state. the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) guarantees freedom of establishment for all european companies. parliament called on the commission to submit as a matter of urgency, pursuant to article 50 (1) and (2) (g) tfeu, a proposal for a directive on the crossborder transfer of registered offices. the directive should allow companies to exercise their right of establishment by migrating to a host member state without losing their legal personality, but by becoming a company governed by the law of the host member state without having to dissolve. the transfer should take effect on the date of registration in the host member state. in order to protect third parties, registration in the host member state and deletion from the register in the home member state should be published in an appropriate manner. the cross-border transfer of the registered office should be prohibited in the case of companies that are subject to winding-up, liquidation, insolvency, suspension of payments or other similar proceedings.
in writing. − it is well known that the european union is the world's largest donor of humanitarian aid. this humanitarian aid is provided in the form of financial aid, goods, services and technical assistance. the aim of this european policy is to respond to emergencies when non-eu countries are affected, whether by natural disasters or other crises. the total eu contribution in humanitarian aid in 2010, including that of the member states, was eur 2 957 million, with the share of member states at 64% and humanitarian aid channelled through the commission at 36%. the commission should ensure that weaknesses identified during regular audits of the partners' systems are promptly corrected by the partners. external auditors should continue to strive to improve the quality of the recommendations they make to partners, taking into account their specific structures, so as to ensure the acceptance and feasibility of those recommendations. in order to make resources and actions more efficient, i believe that the eu budget should also support disaster anticipation, preparedness and prevention.
in writing. − the frequency and magnitude of humanitarian disasters have increased alarmingly in recent times. the earthquake in haiti, the one in japan, the cyclone thane in india, the floods in pakistan or the drought in somalia would be just a few of the worst examples of catastrophe, not to mention the humanitarian effects of the civil revolutions that have engulfed the world. a growing number of refugees are in need of food, shelter, and medical care. millions of children are malnourished, and sadly, many of them, after being treated, end up in the same situation because of lack of food. furthermore, the problems caused by natural disasters are compounded by violence that prevents relief organizations from reaching those in need. in these circumstances, i join my colleagues in sounding the alarm about the efficiency of these programmes and i ask the commission to improve the controls and monitoring of humanitarian aid funds, but also to impose bilateral auditing and measurable impact indicators in cooperation with its partners in the financing of humanitarian programmes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on budgetary control of eu humanitarian aid managed by the directorate-general for humanitarian aid and civil protection (dg echo). according to the european court of auditors, the overall ex ante control, monitoring and surveillance systems, the ex post audit work and the internal audit functions of dg echo are generally effective but can be improved. the resolution calls on the commission to further improve measures to improve the efficiency of cooperation with acp partners after 2012, to reduce excessive administrative burdens on acp partners and to ensure a higher level of accountability and transparency. the european union also needs to strengthen its capacity to respond to the multiplication of major natural disasters and to ensure an adequate humanitarian budget, in order to avoid chronically under-funding humanitarian aid budget lines. at the same time, financial leeway must be guaranteed throughout the budgetary year and a coherent balance must be maintained between the financing of actions aimed at preventing humanitarian disasters and those aimed at responding rapidly to emergencies, whether man-made or natural.
in writing. - i voted for the report drawn up by mr lehne because i believe that european citizens should be encouraged to exercise their rights in transnational situations. • as a recent legal instrument in europe, the collective action for damages is not known to consumers. • the benefits of exercise are undeniable. • thus, where individual financial claims do not give them access to a court, consumers can bring a class action. • this is also the way to share the costs of such a move. • collective action gives consumers an effective means of expression. • it also ensures the smooth functioning of the single market, where citizens can communicate directly with traders. • i would stress that this mechanism eliminates discrimination between citizens as regards the value of legal proceedings and their admissibility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution because it opposes the adoption of the draft commission regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 as regards the list of nutrition claims. the resolution initiated by parliament is intended to force the commission to come up with a better legislative proposal. the main problem with the current proposal is the possibility of displaying a reduction of minus x% sugar on food packaging. or this wording is clearly misleading. reducing the sugar has no effect on the energy content of the product as the sugar will be replaced by other carbohydrates and therefore the calorie count will remain the same. in addition, the formulation 'x% less' would distort competition in the food industry market for products already low in sugar because such a formulation compares the product with itself and not with the whole category of similar food products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution because the wording 'now contains less than x%' risks misleading consumers who have no possibility of making a comparison with the relevant previous composition of the product. in these circumstances, the new terminology proposed by the european commission would represent a step backwards from the regulations currently in force.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and against the commission’s proposed ‘x percent less’ claim. it is of course true that the food industry should be encouraged to reformulate foods to make them healthier, and that allowing the industry to demonstrate and ‘claim’ reformulation to their customers will drive this process. i do not think anybody really disputes that. the issue is precisely how the industry is allowed to communicate this information to consumers, or, in other words, the methodology behind the health claim. and the fact remains that, with this proposed health claim, a product claiming to have ‘x percent less’ fat could still have a very high fat content compared to similar products on the market. this is why a significant majority of us in this house believe that this claim is essentially misleading. i fully support the reformulation of foods as part of the eu’s strategy on nutrition, but the commission, in cooperation with efsa, must find a better way to drive reformulation through health claims.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on amending regulation (ec) no 1924/2006 as regards the list of nutrition claims, which opposes the proposal to amend the regulation. information relating to foodstuffs must not mislead the purchaser as to their nature, properties and characteristics. the use of nutrition and health claims should be easily understood by the average consumer. unfortunately, in its proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 1924/2006, the commission proposes a new nutrition claim to appear on the food as follows: now contains x% less [name of nutrient: sugars/lipids, salt, etc.]. there are already mentions such as 'reduced [name of substance]' and 'dietetic'. the word 'dietetic' means a reduction of at least 10% (for micronutrients), 25% (for sodium), 30% (for sugars/lipids) compared to other similar products. the new proposed wording is ambiguous, misleading, confusing to the consumer and may discourage manufacturers from complying with the requirements for the words 'reduced by [name of substance]' and 'dietetic' as it is easier to reduce a nutrient by 15% than by 30%. we call on the commission to present a new proposal to amend the regulation, which contains clear provisions on nutritional value and does not generate confusion for the consumer.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i appreciate the improvements made to the draft treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union by the european council on 30 january 2012. • i believe that commitments on budgetary discipline will bring the fiscal stability needed for a sustainable economic recovery. • limiting the public debt and budget deficits of the states parties to the treaty will create the conditions for genuine prosperity based on economic growth rather than loans. • i also welcome the commitments made by heads of state and government to stimulate economic growth by creating new jobs and reducing unemployment, especially among young people. • i think it is very appropriate to use european funds to support the creation of smes. • i also welcome the initiative to use european unemployment funds as a guarantee for young entrepreneurs to obtain bank loans. • for romania, which is lagging behind in absorbing european funds, these measures are all the more useful, because the unused funds allocated will be able to be used to create smes and generate new jobs. • i hope that the european council in march will adopt a consistent plan for implementing these decisions, including concrete programmes to boost employment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament's resolution of 2 february on the european council of 30 january 2012, in which parliament takes note of the final text of the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the economic and monetary union and insists on the need for concrete measures to restore the economy, boost sustainable growth and employment. the treaty incorporates changes previously requested by parliament, such as: a commitment to fully apply the community method and that stability, coordination and governance will be achieved through secondary legislation with full involvement of parliament; recognition of the rights of signatory parties whose currency is not the euro to participate in euro area meetings on competitiveness, the general structure of the euro area and the basic rules to be applied in the future; the addition of a reference to the objectives of sustainable growth, employment, competitiveness and social cohesion; a commitment to incorporate the content of the agreement into the eu legislative framework within five years. parliament stressed that measures to strengthen solidarity and stimulate sustainable growth and employment were necessary for economic recovery. we demand that the president of parliament be invited permanently and participate fully in the euro summits.
in writing. - iran's nuclear programme continues to hold the attention of the international community, and events over the past few days confirm that we are far from identifying solutions. the international atomic energy agency's mission to clarify the "grey areas" of iran's nuclear programme ended on tuesday with no apparent progress. although the iaea investigation has lasted for eight years, it has not been able to determine until now whether iran's nuclear program is purely peaceful, as iranian leaders have always claimed, or has a military purpose as well. the joint vote by the european union foreign ministers last week to impose an embargo on iranian crude oil is welcome, but it is only a first step. the reaction from officials in tehran was swift, with the iranian parliament wanting to pass a bill to completely suspend iran's oil exports to european union member states before the european embargo on iranian oil takes full effect. for these reasons, efforts to continue the dialogue must be supported and intensified in order to resolve these situations through diplomatic channels.
in writing. - iran's steps to obtain enriched uranium for military purposes are in flagrant contravention of un security council resolutions and are worryingly amplifying tensions in the middle east. international pressure has so far been unsuccessful, even though it has gone as far as the european embargo on iranian oil imports, the banning of contracts and the freezing of assets of the iranian central bank. these very harsh sanctions put the regime in tehran before a clear choice: either it gives in to the losses suffered by its second-largest customer, which absorbed a quarter of its oil exports, or it resorts to military confrontation to escape economic pressure, following the model of japan's relationship with the us in the second world war. the solution to this impasse must be exclusively diplomatic, which is why i insist that the eu continue its efforts to resume dialogue. i hope that the permission iran has granted to the iaea inspectors is a clue to this.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on iran because it underlines the need for a diplomatic solution to the nuclear problem, while expressing concern at the possible military dimension of iranian uranium enrichment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it represents a valuable contribution to defining new european competences in the field of sport. • i welcome the emphasis on the educational and cultural value of sport, alongside the promotion of a healthy lifestyle. • the more we are in an olympic year, the more i would stress that the spirit of fair play and the peaceful nature of competition are essential features of sport, which enable it to fulfil its social role. • i condemn violence, hooliganism and racism in sporting events. they must be fought, because they are contrary to the very spirit of the sport. i welcome the report's provisions in this area, including the proposal to ban violent supporters from all stadiums in europe. • i regret the violent incidents that have occurred in recent months at some football matches in romania. • i hope that the law on combating violence in sport, which was promulgated earlier this year, will help to eliminate such behaviour in the context of sporting competitions. • i would like to point out that the law includes measures such as tougher penalties and a significant increase in the amount of fines for acts of violence, as well as additional training programmes for security and guard personnel.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty has brought a new eu competence in the field of sport. however, it does not create a specific article, but integrates a legal basis on sport in the section of the treaties devoted to education, vocational training and youth. thus, article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that the objective of the eu is to promote the european dimension of sport. sport itself is an important social phenomenon and a public good. for many, it is one of the most important forms of recreation, whether they are participants or spectators. one of the great benefits of sports is that it brings people together, regardless of their background, training, religious beliefs or economic status. sport promotes the active contribution of european citizens to society and helps to stimulate a sense of social inclusion. a major threat to sport remains doping. the prevention of doping in sport must be based on a clear understanding of the complex nature of the problem and on a comprehensive combination of strategies by all authorities involved in sport to succeed in eradicating doping in sport, recognised as a serious problem that undermines the fundamental principles of sport. i therefore believe that the eu should be more actively involved in the fight against doping.
in writing. − as sport contributes to the achievement of the union's strategic objectives and is a factor of integration, insofar as it is addressed to all citizens, irrespective of sex, ethnic origin, religion, age, nationality, social status or sexual orientation, i believe that access to sport must be ensured for all citizens in many and different circumstances, such as at school, at work, as a recreational activity or within clubs and associations.
in writing. − the commission's communication is the first policy paper on sport presented since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, which gives the eu a mandate to support, coordinate and complement sport policy measures taken by the member states. sport itself is an important social phenomenon and a public good. for many, it is one of the most important forms of recreation, whether they are participants or spectators. one of the great benefits of sports is that it brings people together, regardless of their background, training, religious beliefs, gender or economic status. doping, spectator violence and disorder unfortunately remain widespread across europe and a european approach is needed that includes measures to reduce the associated risks. sport promotes the active contribution of european citizens to society and helps to stimulate a sense of social inclusion, being an important and growing economic sector that contributes significantly to growth and employment, exceeding average growth rates in value added and employment. however, sustainable sport funding is an issue that needs to be examined in more detail.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the european dimension of sport because, under article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the union aims to develop the european dimension of sport by promoting the spirit of fairness and openness in sporting competitions and cooperation between organisations with responsibilities in the field of sport, and by protecting the physical and moral integrity of athletes, especially the youngest athletes. sport is important for the european economy as it directly or indirectly provides jobs for some 15 million people (5.4% of the active population) and contributes 3.65% of european gdp annually. sport contributes to the health of the population and the promotion of physical and sporting activities can contribute to significant savings in public health expenditure. we call on the member states to integrate physical education into the curriculum of all types of schools, and we stress the importance of sporting activities at all levels of education, as well as within local communities, which should be encouraged to have sports facilities with appropriate equipment. i welcome the organisation of a 'european day of sport' this year to promote the social and cultural role of amateur and professional sport and the public health benefits of sport.
in writing. − the eu's waste policy has evolved over the last 30 years through a series of environmental action plans and a legislative framework that aims to reduce negative environmental and health impacts and create a resource and energy efficient economy. in some member states, recycling and recovery are the main waste management options, with landfilling being reduced to negligible amounts, while other member states still use landfills for the majority of their waste. this is also an economic opportunity. in 2008, the €145 billion turnover of the sector accounted for around 1% of eu gdp and 2 million jobs. compliance with eu policy would help create a sector with 2.4 million jobs and a total annual turnover of 187 billion. if member states recycled 70% of their waste, they could create at least half a million new jobs across europe.
in writing. − as the european parliament has received numerous petitions concerning possible violations of the european waste management directive, i voted in favour of this resolution calling for the implementation of waste management strategies in each member state and for the european commission to monitor compliance with the provisions on sorting and recycling. i also believe that the benefits of proper waste management for both the environment and public health should be promoted among the population.
in writing. − an unsatisfactory level of waste recycling affects the health of european citizens, the health of the environment, but also has negative effects on the economies of the member states. at union level, improving waste recovery and recycling could bring savings of €72 billion per year, increase the turnover of the european waste management and recycling sector by €42 billion per year and, not least, create over 400 000 jobs by 2020. this last point is in line with the eu's 2020 strategy objectives of creating new jobs at member state level. i therefore believe that member states should make efforts to accelerate the introduction of waste management strategies in line with the cdd.
in writing. − the numerous petitions sent to the european parliament recently indicate that more and more local communities are concerned that waste management is becoming a major political and social issue. the credibility of eu legislation itself is at stake. the waste industry in the european union is a public burden, often taken over by private interests and multinational companies, which treat 60% of household waste and 75% of waste produced by companies, with an annual turnover of eur 75 billion. this is why the european commission must propose clearer and more specific criteria for the location of ecological landfills and their proximity to homes, schools or hospitals. i supported the rapporteur's position precisely because of the measures to combat the infiltration of the waste management system by organised crime and to prevent any links between organised crime organisations and the waste industry or public authorities. another important proposal in the report is that after the waste processing funds have been allocated to companies, local and/or national authorities should put in place effective financial monitoring of the use of these funds.
in writing. − i urge the commission and the member states to promote greater public awareness of the environmental benefits of efficient waste management, in particular by providing information on the importance of separate collection, the real cost of household waste collection and, in parallel, the financial return on the recovery of this household waste, while at the same time achieving the objectives of the roadmap for a resource efficient europe and the greenhouse gas reduction targets. i believe that close cooperation between member state authorities and the ep technical committees (petitions, environment) in addressing citizens' direct concerns at local level would provide an excellent opportunity to facilitate dialogue between the responsible authorities and local communities on the priorities for implementing waste management strategies and could, where it proves useful, be an effective way of resolving local disputes and taking effective action to combat any infiltration of organised crime into waste management and any links of organised crime with this sector or with public authorities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the issues raised by the petitioners in relation to the implementation of the waste management directive and related directives in the member states of the european union. between 2004 and 2010, 114 petitions were sent to parliament, pointing to possible breaches of the waste management regulatory framework, from the following member states: the commission has also adopted a number of proposals for the future of the european union, including a number of proposals for the future of the european union. according to a study carried out for the commission, about 2.6 billion tonnes of waste are generated each year in the eu, or about 6 tonnes of waste per capita, and about 90 million tonnes of waste are classified as hazardous. the same study highlights that many member states do not have sufficient capacity to prepare waste management plans, nor to carry out the inspections, controls and other actions necessary for the proper implementation of waste legislation. the resolution calls on the commission and the member states to ensure both the design and implementation of comprehensive waste management plans, including the adoption of all the objectives set by specific european legislation, and solutions for the necessary funding.
in writing. − the previous success of the daphne programme in supporting violence prevention initiatives, campaigns and policies, together with studies showing that inadequate funding of previous versions of the initiative had significantly limited its otherwise notable success, justifies the continuation of this programme. violence against children, young people and women remains one of the major challenges facing european society. 98% of european citizens are aware of the prevalence of this phenomenon, while over two thirds of european citizens (68%) believe that the european union needs to be actively involved in preventing and combating violence against these vulnerable groups. the proliferation of new forms of violence against vulnerable groups, due to the expansion of access to new communication technologies, also calls for a firm response from the european union. the continuation of the programme is a useful tool for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in terms of combating social exclusion and the european commission's strategy on equality between women and men 2010-2015.
in writing. - i voted for the report because violence against children, young people and women is a scourge of our society. according to several gender-based violence studies, approximately 20-25% of women in europe have been physically abused at least once, and 26% of children and adolescents reported being physically abused as children. however, victims of physical or verbal abuse often do not have the courage to speak up, making it difficult to compile relevant statistics. i therefore believe it is essential to provide adequate funding for the daphne programme, which aims to prevent and combat violence against women and children and young people.
in writing. − as daphne is the only programme of its kind aimed at combating violence against women, children and adolescents at eu level, i believe that the continuity of funding for the daphne programme is essential to maintain the measures in place and to adopt new viable measures to combat all types of violence against children, young people and women.
in writing. − since the launch of the daphne programme, over 500 ngos, public authorities or institutions have successfully implemented projects funded by the programme. the projects aimed to protect children, young people and women against all forms of violence and to achieve a high level of health protection, well-being and social cohesion. although daphné will be included in the 'rights and citizenship' programme from 2014, i believe it is essential to keep the original objectives of the programme, alongside the objectives of the new 'rights and citizenship' programme. at the same time, to achieve its objectives, we need to maintain its funding at a level comparable to previous programmes or even higher. a balanced annual distribution would ensure continuity of objectives and actions pursued to date. it is also necessary to maintain the visibility of the programme in the new generation of programmes, given its success, effectiveness and popularity at the moment.
in writing. − the daphne programme was set up in 1997 with the aim of combating violence against women, young people and children. the initiative was taken up by ngos, parliament, the european commission and experts in the field. the aim was to strengthen cooperation at european level. all member states may participate in the daphne initiative. in 2000, the daphne initiative was transformed into a multiannual funding programme, covering the years 2000-03. the programme has attracted interest from both the european union and numerous international bodies, and the funds allocated have been used to stop the commercial exploitation of children. in 2004 and 2007, the daphne ii and daphne iii programmes were launched, with an annual budget of eur 10 million. i voted for this report because i support the need to introduce the 2014 daphne programme into the rights and citizenship programme and to maintain its objectives in support of combating violence against women for the period 2014-2020, alongside the objectives of the new programme, where gender equality and the fight against violence against women are not clearly expressed.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the daphne programme as it is the only programme aimed at combating violence against women, children and adolescents at eu level. according to gender-based violence studies, approximately 20-25 per cent of women in europe have been victims of physical violence at least once in their lives, and 26 per cent of children and adolescents have been victims of physical violence in childhood. the daphne programme is a key instrument to combat violence against women and to give women's organisations and other stakeholders the opportunity to take concrete action in this area. since 1997, more than 500 projects have been implemented under the daphne programme, which has attracted a great deal of interest from ngos, who have sent a large number of proposals to the commission for funding from the programme budget. continued funding of the daphne programme is essential to maintain the measures in place and to adopt new measures to combat violence against children, young people and women. we call for a reduction in administrative burden, simplification of grant application procedures and a reduction in the period between publication of the project application and conclusion of contracts, to allow as many ngos as possible to propose and implement projects through the daphne programme.
in writing. − the impact of conflict on the civilian population remains disproportionate when gender and age are considered. conflict over the past decade has affected and continues to affect predominantly children, women and the elderly. famine, epidemics, and violence against civilians continue to claim more lives than military confrontations themselves. at the same time, it is worrying that violence and abuse against these groups are still considered in some regions as legitimate tools of military confrontation. the overall picture is even more worrying when we consider that only 10% of peacekeeping personnel are women. supporting the gender dimension by conditioning union financial and institutional support to the inclusion of representatives of women's organisations in the negotiation process, together with the inclusion of a more substantial female staff in the negotiating body, may constitute appropriate strategies for achieving the objectives of the european union action plan on gender equality.
in writing. - i voted for the report by my colleague nicolai because violence against women has increased in today's conflicts. i stress the importance of the consecration of female role models in peacekeeping to highlight their contribution to the success of the mission. with their courage on the front line, they are an important element in the army's structures. at the same time, we need to raise awareness among the public and policy makers about sexual abuse in war zones. • i also support the initiative to set up specialised clinics to provide the necessary medical and psychological assistance to victims. women also need to be involved in the reconstruction of conflict zones. through their active presence on the ground, they can ensure that gender balance is maintained within institutions.
in writing. − the need to involve women in all phases of conflict prevention, crisis management and post-conflict rehabilitation has been increasingly highlighted in discussions at the highest levels. the involvement of women in the security sector and in peacebuilding is crucial to the success of these efforts, and the exclusion of women from these processes leads to the inability to respond adequately to the concerns of the entire population. in peace negotiations, women represent less than 8% of participants and less than 3% of signatories to agreements. the eu's support for peace processes must be conditional on the participation of women in the international teams leading the peace negotiations. in contemporary armed conflict, about 90 percent of the victims are civilians, and women are often the victims of rape, used as a weapon of war, and sexual exploitation, as an extreme means of survival. therefore, i have called for special attention to be paid to pregnant women and mothers with young children in the provision of food, clothing, medical services, transport and evacuation to avoid unwanted pregnancies and sexually transmitted diseases as priority areas under the 2014-2020 development financing instruments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the situation of women in war because it calls for the prevention of abuses against women during conflicts and their involvement in peace processes. in a context where women continue to be among the main victims of armed conflict, and gender-based violence is often used systematically as a tactic of war, strategies are needed to prevent such violence, to protect and assist victims, and to prosecute perpetrators.
in writing. − as history has shown that war seems to be a largely male-dominated activity and that there is therefore reason to expect that women's special skills for dialogue and non-violence could contribute very effectively to the prevention and peaceful management of conflicts, i believe that the european union's support for peace processes should also be conditional on the participation of women in international teams leading peace negotiations.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it touches upon a serious problem, sexual violence against women and children in situations of armed conflict. i want to underline three important points. first, it strongly condemns the continued use of sexual violence against women as a weapon of war equal to a war crime, recognising the deep physical and psychological wounds that such abuses leave on the victims. second, the rapporteur calls for the inclusion of more women in the military, both in leadership positions and at ground level. third, the report stresses that education plays a key role not only in empowering women and young girls but also in combating discrimination.
in writing. − the report refers to un resolution 1325 and aims to combat sexual violence against women and children in armed conflict. i voted for this report because women need to be increasingly involved in peacekeeping operations, both in the prevention and the mediation of conflicts, especially in leadership positions, both in national governments and at the political level. at the same time, they must be included in civilian operations, because they communicate much better than men on the ground. it is also necessary for women to be present in the peacebuilding phase, because as pillars on which communities rely, they are much more aware of the practical needs that peacebuilding projects should address. although the number of women in representative institutions has increased, women's participation in peace negotiations remains low; less than 10% of those formally involved in peace negotiations. the report strongly condemns the use of sexual violence against women as a weapon of war and therefore one of the main calls made by the rapporteur is the creation of the post of eu special representative for women, peace and security.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation of women in war because i believe that the human rights of women and girls are an inalienable, integral and indivisible part of universal human rights. sexual violence in the form of mass rape, human trafficking and other sexual abuse of women and children continues to be unacceptably used as a tactic of war in conflict regions around the world. the effects of violence, both physical and psychological, are devastating for victims, as they are often stigmatised, rejected, mistreated and considered dishonored and, in many cases, excluded from their communities and sometimes even killed. we call on the authorities to identify and punish those who are guilty of atrocious violence against women (rape, murder, infanticide) and children in conflict zones. closer cooperation with local women's organisations is needed to establish an early warning system and possibly enable them to prevent or reduce the number of abuses themselves. we call on the eu budgetary authority to increase the financial resources allocated to promoting gender equality and women's rights in future development finance instruments for the period 2014-2020.
in writing. − i voted for the report because i believe that access to energy for all must be a central point in the global discussion and action to eradicate poverty. i find it worrying that 1.3 billion people lack access to electricity, and 2.7 billion lack clean cooking facilities. in sub-saharan africa alone, about 70% of the population is faced with a lack of access to electricity. if we want to make real progress on this, we need to have 3% of global investment in energy infrastructure by 2030. on the other hand, we have to make sure that the people really benefit from the subsidies that are being offered, like fossil fuel subsidies.
in writing. − access to modern energy services for the population is a basic condition for poverty reduction and sustainable development. yet, according to the 2011 world statistics, published by the international energy agency, some 1.3 billion people do not have access to electricity. given that energy services have a direct impact on all aspects of people's lives and livelihoods, i believe that the importance of access to energy requires much greater attention from the international community and that policies for development need to be aligned with this objective. at the same time, the european union should create within the framework of eu development cooperation a specific programme on 'energy and development' with the main objective of facilitating universal access to energy. this will make a major contribution to raising the living standards of those affected today and to eradicating poverty worldwide.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on eu development cooperation in support of the goal of universal access to energy by 2030 because i believe that lack of access to energy services does not provide conditions for a decent life and particularly affects women and children. in the least developed countries, only a minority of the population has access to the electricity grid, and small-scale, decentralized energy solutions are the only viable way to ensure universal access to energy in the years ahead. renewable energy sources, and in particular small-scale decentralised solutions, have huge potential for providing reliable, sustainable and affordable energy services to the poor, especially in rural areas of developing countries. the resolution urges the commission and the member states to endorse and commit to support the international (un) target of universal access to energy by 2030 and to align their policies and development cooperation with this target. it also encourages the commission and the member states to support, through development cooperation and appropriate financial instruments, the transfer of technologies, including technical knowledge, information and good practices, appropriate for the provision of modern energy services to the poor.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that we need improved taxation at european level. the cross-border activity of european citizens and businesses alike continues to be hampered by barriers to growth and employment. we cannot talk about integrated taxation if there is no real coordination of tax policies in the eu. i also share the rapporteur's view that the main function of tax systems is to finance services of public interest: education, health services, public transport and infrastructure, and to reduce social inequalities through a fairer distribution of income and wealth.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the annual report on taxation because i believe we must ensure that our citizens have a competitive europe that creates growth and jobs. taxation remains a matter of national sovereignty and, in some cases, local government. i would stress that the increased scrutiny of budgetary procedures by the commission must be matched by better democratic scrutiny by parliament. we call on the member states to apply a growth-friendly tax approach, improving taxation arrangements and moving towards less distortive taxes without compromising the social market objective. low taxation is essential not only for the social well-being of families and households, but also for competitiveness and job creation. optimising the single market and some tax harmonisation actions could be key factors in encouraging growth and job creation. in this respect, we look forward to the commission's proposals on removing transnational tax obstacles from the path of union citizens. we welcome the commission's intention to step up its efforts to ensure that all eu citizens have access to the necessary information and advice on tax regulations within the eu.
in writing. − improving business practices at european level will also have a positive impact on the functioning of the food supply chain. increased transparency on quality is essential to stimulate competition in the single market, to increase consumer awareness and to give consumers the opportunity to make a real choice. i believe that we need active monitoring of developments in consumer products markets and ambitious legislative proposals in the revision of the framework of the markets in financial instruments directive and the market abuse directive in order to combat speculative practices that are negatively affecting european industry and distorting the single market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the schwab report because i believe that the progressive removal of barriers to trade within the eu should be further supported. • maintaining a level playing field in financial and industrial markets is essential. • an effective policy in this area will enable the union to become more competitive on the world stage. • it is necessary to correct distortions created during the crisis. state aid must not distort competition. • i would stress that their over-allocation has contributed to imbalances in public finances. • at the same time, illicit practices and abuse of a dominant position in the credit rating agency sector need to be eliminated. • i encourage the commission to actively monitor competition in the energy sector. • i would point out that the three largest players in this field account for about 75% of the electricity market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the annual report on the european union's competition policy, as i felt that stricter rules were needed in this area, especially in times of crisis. competition should be encouraged in particular in the energy, credit rating agencies and banking sectors. the problem of 'too big to fail' banks, which received state aid during the crisis, needs to be addressed. it is surprising that these institutions can benefit from unlimited access to liquidity, while the european central bank has consistently expressed its reluctance to become the lender of last resort for the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the annual report on eu competition policy because i believe that the following measures are needed at european level: completion of the internal market for all modes of transport; achievement of an open and competitive single energy market; improvement of price transparency and increased competition in the roaming market; increased consumer information and protection. we ask the commission to monitor the level of competition in the energy sector and to provide guidance to improve access to the energy grid for energy from renewable sources. we stress the need for competition in the roaming market and improved price transparency, together with the elimination of differences between roaming and national tariffs by 2015. in order to ensure a level playing field at european level, we call on the commission and the member states to ensure the implementation of the services directive and egovernment systems, thus removing barriers to cross-border service provision. we call on the commission to actively monitor developments in the markets for consumer products and to come forward with ambitious legislative proposals to combat speculative practices that are harming european industry and distorting the single market. last but not least, an interconnected, interoperable and efficient transport network is indispensable for fair competition in the context of the completion of the internal market.
a harmonised and progressive approach to intellectual property rights is essential for achieving the ambitious objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, including the digital agenda for europe. the office shall provide a forum bringing together public authorities and representatives of the private sector, ensuring the collection, analysis and dissemination of objective, comparable and reliable data on the value of intellectual property rights and infringements of those rights, identifying and promoting best practices and strategies for the enforcement of intellectual property rights and contributing to public awareness of the effects of infringement. for the european parliament, respect for the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens is fundamental. measures aimed at protecting intellectual property must not infringe the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens. european law, through the telecoms package, prohibits service providers from filtering content on the internet without a warrant issued by a judge. the observer should only support and limit itself to the implementation of specific european legislation.
intellectual property in any form is an important subject at union level. studies show that piracy reduces the motivation for innovation in businesses, affects jobs and poses a threat to the health of our citizens. counterfeiting affects not only luxury goods but also everyday items, including medicines and food. the scale of the phenomenon thus requires a coordinated policy approach at eu level. in addition, cooperation with third countries and the development of technical assistance programmes targeting new means of counterfeiting are required. i want to draw attention to the mandatory distinction between piracy and private use, while also informing citizens about the multiple impact of intellectual property rights infringement. transparency of decisions taken within the office for... (the president interrupts the speaker)
i believe that the proposed amendment is optimal in the context of the budgetary constraints of the european institutional system. the merger of the office's remit with that of the observer means more visibility for external decision-makers. i support the proposal to ensure transparency in the operation of this mechanism in all its procedures. they also support the exchange of good practice in the field of intellectual property rights management by smes. amendment 6 of the report is relevant - the structure thus created can support the development of new business models. the diversification of the object of the activity must be accompanied by adequate protection of the intellectual property rights used. therefore, there is a need for constant communication between the member states, the commission and the office. at the same time, european citizens must be informed and actively involved in the office's work.
with the ease of the single market, many european companies are also doing business in other eu countries. for legal and commercial reasons, information on companies needs to be accessible in real time throughout europe. the creation of the european central platform will make this possible by connecting the trade registers in the member states. it will also increase transparency by using a unique identifier for companies and their branches in other countries. this will eliminate legal uncertainties, especially in the case of the dissolution of companies with subsidiaries in several countries. the new provisions will also facilitate the necessary cooperation between national registers in the event of mergers of companies located in different states. i consider that, at the same time, adequate protection of personal data must be ensured. in this context, i welcome amendment no 21 proposed by the european parliament. i also welcome the other improvements made to the draft directive at the suggestion of parliament. i am thinking in particular of the areas regulated by means of delegated acts. clarifications on how the new european connecting system will be financed are also appropriate. i would like to point out that the national trade register office in romania has recently launched a new it platform. it offers concrete benefits for the business environment and creates the conditions for connecting with other eu countries. moreover, since the first day of operation of the new online platform, a higher number of requests than the daily average has been recorded, which highlights the advantages for users.
the purpose of the directive is a purely technical interconnection of existing national registers, and not a harmonisation of their legal requirements. part of e-government services, the interconnection of national registers concerns only the exchange of information contained in registers, and not the establishment of a trade register containing its own data. only by interconnecting will the potential of computerized record keeping be fully exploited. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the technical specifications, which shall define: the methods of communication by electronic means for the system of interconnection of registers, the communication protocols, the technical measures to ensure minimum security standards for the communication and distribution of information within the system of interconnection of registers, the detailed list of data transmitted for the purpose of exchanging information between registers, the data set necessary for the platform to perform its functions, as well as the method of storage, use and protection of such data, the structure and use of the unique identifier for communication between registers.
mr president, the proposed directive contributes, firstly, to the integration of the single market. secondly, it contributes to a more efficient use of the resources of the member states’ judicial systems thirdly, it contributes to increased market transparency by easy access to relevant information. eu economic actors will benefit from updated and reliable information on potential business partners and on foreign legal systems. they need this information. this makes them able to assess to a larger extent the risks and benefits of starting a business or doing business in a particular country. fourthly, it contributes to stronger, longer-term and more secure cross-border business. fifthly, all of this will improve legal certainty and reduce the incidence of legal actions in commercial matters throughout the eu. those are some benefits of this directive. using the e-justice portal as an electronic access point to legal provisions, information about registers and european and national databases is an inspired choice. initially designed to support judicial and police cooperation, this tool is now being extended to administrative cooperation in relation to the functioning of the single market. this will consolidate the utility and reliability of the platform and will provide additional incentives for enhanced mutual trust between member states’ administrations. the concrete procedures and technical specifications are being left for subsequent commission implementing acts. this is why the commission needs to foresee efficient means to ensure that data protection requirements will be observed and enforced effectively by all member states. particular attention should be paid to such procedures as effective automatic data transfers between registers, as provided for in the amended recital 15. overall, the new directive has the potential to enhance competition, in parallel with trust, by building confidence in the business environment of the internal market.
i support the proposal to create an internal market for payment services in euro, which will in practice considerably facilitate the system available to european consumers, who will be able to use a single payment method and a single type of account for transferring money within the european union. this initiative will increase the efficiency of cross-border payments, transforming a segmented european market into a single one and bringing economic benefits. as you know and as has been said, the european commission estimates that these benefits could amount to billions of euros within six years, through cost reductions. i also welcome the establishment of deadlines for the transition from the current national systems to the generalised one, so that the transition process is not unduly prolonged. we have seen how the original strategy adopted by the european executive for the transfer of credit, which was that the transition should be done by the private sector at a flexible pace, has not worked. from the figures i have, in february 2011, two and a half years after the launch of the initiative, only 15.7% of the total credit transfer in the euro area was through the european payment system. last but not least, i believe that consumer protection must be ensured throughout the transition to the new system and that is why, commissioner, i suggest that information programmes be set up to which the banking sector is practically obliged to contribute actively.
the single euro payments area is essential for the completion of the internal market. the close link between invoices and payments provides the single euro payments area with a platform for the creation of an interoperable european electronic invoicing system. in turn, the widespread adoption of electronic invoicing will stimulate the migration of financial instruments to the single euro payments area. for these mutual benefits to be realised, the e-invoicing standard needs to be consistent with the iso 20022 standard for financial services messages, which is used by the single euro payments area both electronic invoicing and the single euro payments area should also be integrated into the electronic public payment systems operated by public authorities in the member states and by the institutions of the european union. i would ask the commissioner for more details on the developments mentioned above.
for the single market to work properly, europe needs safe and efficient payment systems. national plans cannot provide sufficient impetus for a rapid and comprehensive migration to the single euro payments area. sepa is the basic building block in the creation of an internal payments market. it will help to reduce costs and allow substantial savings to be made. for example, the potential benefits of sepa could amount to eur 300 billion over a six-year period. it is important to set a common deadline for the migration of direct debits and credit transfers into euro. at the same time, it is essential to regulate multilateral interchange fees for direct debits. i believe, however, that more efforts need to be made to actively promote sepa products.
member of the commission. - madam president, i thank marielle gallo, on behalf of the committee of which she is a member, and many of you for asking me about this aspect of the future legislative proposal on collective management of copyright. what's the problem? putting collective management at the service of the single market in the age of the internet, bringing this copyright to life - as i said earlier in a more general way on intellectual property - in the present day, in the present day, mrs gallo, which, as you know, is the age of the internet and the age of europe. collective management of copyright is a complex issue. it affects the management of online rights but also offline rights, not only for authors but also for performers, actors, producers, publishers and even broadcasters. we immediately think of the large management companies, such as those responsible for the rights of authors themselves, but, ladies and gentlemen, we must not forget the companies that receive the remuneration linked to reprography or the right of sequence. if we look exclusively at the collective management of copyright as such, this is a sector - mrs gallo recalled - worth €7.5 billion worldwide, and €4.6 billion in europe alone, for nearly a hundred management companies. collective copyright management is complex, because these management companies - there are about a hundred of them in our country - while being strongly rooted in the various member states and actively participating in the cultural diversity in each of our states, must also adapt - as i mentioned earlier - to the internet and to a multi-territorial demand that is developing rapidly. this collective management must be at the service of the rightholders as much as it is at the service of the users. but now it is time for this collective management to be more at the service of the single market. the use of collective management is primarily voluntary and is the choice most often made by authors. it allows the licensing of the largest possible number of users and the widest possible coverage of rights. it must protect the interests of those entitled and ensure the remuneration, not only, as you said, mrs gallo, of those who are the most famous, the stars, but also of those who are less well known and who are entitled to the same protection. these are balances which are difficult to strike and the question of collective management divides many stakeholders. opinions and positions are very often divergent. at the same time, the market is changing very rapidly. yesterday's needs are no longer today's needs. ladies and gentlemen, having recalled the complexity and differences of approach which partly explain, madam gallo, the time i have taken to work seriously and conscientiously on this proposal, i should like to say a few words about this future proposal for a directive. in its communication of 20 may 2011, to which you referred, the commission announced its intention not only to cover the management of copyright related to online music but also to establish a common set of rules for all collective management organisations, whatever their activity. this decision was welcomed, particularly in the member states. we are therefore working towards this objective by broadening the scope of our future proposal. all interested parties were consulted. this consultation phase is now over. i did it - i did it a second time - without improvising, seriously, and listening to everyone. that is why i will be able, on behalf of the commission, to present - you have asked me to set a deadline - this proposal for a directive next spring. i think that the commission's proposal is a good one. i've asked my staff to work on two fronts. the first pillar concerns horizontal rules on transparency and governance. these are harmonised rules on transparency and governance which will apply, if you will, to all collective management companies in europe. these rules should create a level playing field for all companies and improve their functioning for the benefit of all rightholders, including nationals of other member states. it cannot be overlooked that each collective management company manages on its territory the rights (for example, broadcasting rights) not only of its own members but also of the members of foreign management companies. that is the first horizontal part of this future and next proposal. the second part concerns specific rules for online music. it's connected to the companies that manage copyright for online music. while ensuring a high level of transparency and a better quality of services to authors and users, we want to propose a clear legal framework, ladies and gentlemen, to facilitate the granting of multi-territorial licences by management companies for online music. these licences should also encourage the grouping of directories, the sharing of directories, in order to reduce the number of licences needed. in this approach, the commission will take into account, as far as possible, the position expressed by the european parliament in several resolutions and working papers. i just wanted to let you know that i'm personally working with all my teams on this case. we shall be ready in the next few months, and the time that has passed, which may have seemed long to you, is a useful time to propose a good, solid and balanced text. i am convinced that our proposal will help to accelerate the creation of this digital single market. collective management companies will benefit from a much clearer legislative framework, which will harmonise and define the basic principles governing their operation. in the online music sector, authors will benefit from the benefits of a much wider exploitation of their works. finally, citizens, and especially young people, will benefit from a wider range of innovative services. that is the direction in which we are working on these two aspects and that is the timeframe within which i think i will be able - subject to the approval of the european commission and the college - to present this text to you in the very next few weeks.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i welcome the commission decision to propose a directive on collective rights management, and i also welcome the open legislative process just described by the commissioner, which included a public consultation to hear the voices and opinions of all parties involved. the current 2005 recommendation from the commission has proved insufficient in regulating the collective cross-border management of copyright and related rights for on-line music services. our goal is to safeguard the interests of authors in europe and to ensure cultural diversity in a legal, fair and transparent system of competition. at present there is a climate of legal uncertainty for rights-holders, for users and especially for broadcasters, who – for instance – experience legal uncertainty as to which licensing regime would apply to their services. i believe that the commission proposal should include some of the following principles: firstly, the holders of the rights, either individuals or legal persons holding on-line rights, should be able to chose freely any collective rights managers for the management of on-line rights related to legitimate on-line music services, no matter where the rights-holder or the collective rights manager is in the european union. secondly, royalties collected by collective rights managers on behalf of rights-holders should be distributed fairly and without discrimination on the basis of residence or nationality or whether they are composers, performers, publishers or other categories of rights-holders. collective rights managers should be able to provide commercial users based anywhere in the european union with pan-european and multi-territorial licences for online users, including mobile phone users, on firm and individually negotiated terms and without discrimination among users. lastly, in the event of disputes, parties should have access to effective and inexpensive dispute settlement mechanisms which do not burden users with unreasonable legal costs.
in romania, 12 collective management organisations are organised and operate with the approval of the o.r.d.a., of which 5 are in the field of copyright and 7 in the field of related rights. the amounts collected are allocated on the basis of the documents received from users and on the basis of other criteria: the following are the main types of data: the fact that the amounts collected by collective management organisations increased fivefold between 2004 and 2009 shows significant progress and that copyright and related rights holders are aware of the benefits they derive from membership of a collective management organisation. i would like to ask the commission what measures the forthcoming legislative proposal envisages to ensure that both copyright and related rights holders (especially the lesser known) can access the collective management organisations for those rights in the context of european licences, and that consumers can access the works they want in the language they want, wherever they are in the european union.
in writing. the european commission has repeatedly announced in its documents a number of initiatives in the field of collective rights management, but no proposal has been submitted so far. at present, collective management is carried out through bodies that collect royalties for copyright, but which have become a barrier to effective copyright reform in europe. the problems in this area were best illustrated in belgium, when a group of undercover reporters demonstrated that the sabam (société dauteurs belge belgische auteurs maatschappij) collecting company collected remuneration for artists who did not exist. for these reasons, i consider that a timetable for this legislative proposal and its scope is necessary.
member of the commission. the commission has already made a number of proposals. i am grateful to the commissioner for his reply, which is a good opportunity to show the potential for growth in regional policy. i would point out that regional policy has always been geared to growth by definition and will continue to be so in the future. in times like these, it is more necessary than ever to invest heavily in growth. europe needs growth. it is very important that we counteract a possible recession, which some experts would consider mild. it is essential that we address two things in particular: the first is to promote small and mediumsized enterprises, the second is to combat the extremely high level of youth unemployment in some countries, which in some age groups is as high as 50%. we need the support of both areas, which are mutually dependent. a simple example of calculation: we have 23 million small and mediumsized enterprises in europe, and we have about 23 million unemployed. if we succeed in persuading every small and mediumsized enterprise to take on an additional unemployed person, the problem of unemployment would be alleviated. the informal european council of 30 january was therefore right to say that we need to make even greater and more targeted efforts in the coming years to promote the competitiveness of our companies and thus ensure growth for europe. there is no long-term stability without corresponding qualitative and quantitative growth. the heads of state or government have therefore proposed that the structural funds which have not yet been allocated to specific projects - and this is the correct quote: 22 billion from the esf and some 60 billion from the erdf and the cohesion fund - should be reviewed with a view to making the best use of growth potential. it is true that in principle these funds are allocated to programmes, but they are not yet allocated to specific projects. it is therefore quite legitimate to say: let us see if we can improve the structure of the subsidies once again! the commission has offered to use all the expertise we have to help, particularly those countries where youth unemployment is highest. it must be allowed to exploit all possibilities in such critical phases. we are at your disposal. we have offered this to the member states and they have accepted it. there will be very concrete talks in the coming weeks and months, starting in early march. it is up to the member states, however, to adapt their programmes to this new target: combating youth unemployment and promoting small and mediumsized enterprises. in this context, i would like to thank the european parliament for its support in speeding up the adoption of measures to promote small and mediumsized enterprises and to increase the rate of cofinancing, which in turn helps to overcome liquidity constraints and to implement, manage and complete projects. we are prepared to make adjustments and adaptations to programmes, as we do every day, if the member states so wish. the commission is ready to do so. i would also ask the ladies and gentlemen of the european parliament to contribute to this project to combat youth unemployment and to promote small and mediumsized enterprises, within the limits of their powers and responsibilities.
on behalf of the alde group. the european commission's proposal to direct the remaining funds not yet allocated under the european union's structural funds towards supporting smes and combating youth unemployment is welcome, all the more so as the economic crisis has deeply accentuated these problems. supporting smes is vital to growth and job creation, and enabling member states that have not absorbed very much european funds to re-prioritize where appropriate the areas for allocating european money. but as you know, we're not at the forefront of this kind of crisis response. given the negative example of my country's government, perhaps the worst performing in europe in terms of absorbing european funds, we can say that these financial aids have not always been used as we expected. the effectiveness of anti-crisis measures therefore depends to a large extent on the ability and willingness of national governments to create the national framework necessary for the successful implementation of these measures. so, in order to be able to take a correct, objective decision on the proposal you have made, we need clear answers to all the questions that the regi committee has put to you, but also some clarifications, such as how the european commission will proceed to support and ensure that even national governments that have already shown that they are not applying the anti-crisis measures adopted at european level will still be able to quickly redistribute the money not allocated to specific projects aimed at smes and job creation. another thing that i think is very important -- you highlighted a list of eight states where youth unemployment is very high. i want to tell you, commissioner, that in romania this is a real problem and we want to know, the romanian citizens want to know whether the funds allocated to romania will be directed to other states. it would be a shame if that happened!
europe will not overcome the current crisis if it fails to support young people to find a job or start a business. a young workforce is needed to sustain the pension system in an ageing union. according to the latest data from anofm, in romania, more than one hundred thousand people under the age of 30 are currently unemployed. i should mention that the greatest difficulties are encountered in the first employment. the romanian state thus spends eur 1.17 billion annually. therefore, any form of funding and support for young entrepreneurs is welcome. however, the commission needs to clarify whether it intends to reduce the amounts allocated to countries with low absorption rates. i believe that, on the contrary, it is precisely these countries that need the most support to increase their capacity to use european funds. reducing the co-financing rate is a possibility to this end. i also ask the commission to present an action plan for the use of the 22 billion euro from the european social fund in apprenticeship and training programmes. i would also like to stress that the methodology for providing guarantees from european funds to young entrepreneurs must be clarified.
the proposal announced by the commission is a generous one and i have no doubt that it is based on the best intentions, but the commission knows that it is not about money being blocked or wasted, but about money for infrastructure, for example, for large-scale projects outlined at the beginning of the financial perspective. of course, a lot of the funds are going to small businesses and youth programs. in any event, such reallocation can be an opportunity for states wishing to invest more in both areas, but it must remain an individual option on a voluntary basis for each state. the creation of a fund to be managed by the european commission is not a solution. the mere suspicion that funds could be reallocated between member states is a dangerous matter. the appropriate solution is greater flexibility in re-orientating priorities internally. at the same time, let us not forget that the greatest obstacle to the efficient use of european funds is the lack of resources to ensure national and private co-financing.
the european council committed itself to providing guidance in march on the economic and employment policies of the member states, with particular emphasis on increasing competitiveness. it is important to better target available eu funds towards growth and employment, but within the agreed ceilings for each member state and without jeopardising the achievement of planned development programmes. member states should prioritise funding to stimulate employment, especially among young people, and to stimulate the financing of the economy, in particular smes. particular support should be given to member states undergoing fiscal consolidation, as the economic crisis has also generated a severe social crisis. commissioner, in romania, a very large number of citizens do not receive unemployment benefits or any other form of social assistance. therefore, we recommend using the employment rate as an indicator, rather than the unemployment rate.
president barroso's proposal aims to overcome the impasse of the current economic crisis by implementing measures to strengthen the economy of smes and reduce youth unemployment. measures to change the allocation of unspent amounts must take account of the subsidiarity principle laid down in the treaty, while respecting the powers of local and regional authorities with regard to the use of community support. in fact, the question that has stirred up the stir and is awaiting an answer is simple: can a member state lose the funds originally earmarked as a result of this redistribution? the main role of cohesion policy is to reduce the gap between regions. the application of redistributions in the financial instruments can produce immediate, concrete results, but the commission has to provide clarifications on the framework of the proposal and on compliance with the main objective of cohesion policy. the solution to the reorientation of the eur 82 billion must take into account aspects of increasing the flexibility of funding programmes, facilitating access to funding and improving the administrative capacity of beneficiaries.
in writing. the decision to redirect unused structural funds towards supporting smes and tackling youth unemployment is a very inspired one, as smes are the backbone of the european economy and youth are a valuable resource and at the same time one of the most vulnerable groups in society. the younger generation is a dwindling resource, with the current 20% of the population estimated to fall to 15% by 2050. it is therefore our duty to create more opportunities for young people in the fields of education and employment, and a basic tool for achieving the proposed objectives in this regard is cohesion policy. if at the moment the reprogramming of funds for 2012 and 2013 is not so simple and can generate more negative effects than positive ones, i strongly recommend that in the next programming period member states pay much more attention to youth and include in the structure of national programmes well-funded and specifically dedicated axes for youth employment.
the dutch freedom party, part of the government coalition, has launched a website where citizens can report complaints about immigrants to the netherlands from central and eastern europe. the move is discriminatory and sets a serious precedent for the rights and freedoms of european citizens. the european commission has so far reacted symbolically, to the dutch people, not to the dutch government, although the move is extremely serious because it incites discrimination and xenophobia. even if there are differences between the situation in hungary and the approach taken in the netherlands, i must note that in the first case the european commission reacted quickly, which is not repeated in the approach to the second case. i note that the netherlands is falling back on non-european positions: it is blocking the accession of romania and bulgaria to schengen without grounds in accordance with community legislation, and is not respecting its own commitments. as the netherlands is the first investor in romania, i can think that it has a discriminatory approach, profiting from economic activities in romania, but at the same time driving out romanian citizens working in the netherlands. the netherlands understands the free movement of labour in only one sense, ignoring the interests of its own dutch companies that profit from the labour of eastern european citizens. i ask the commission to react quickly, in view of the gravity of the situation.
beyond the deeply racist and xenophobic nature of the new website created by the dutch freedom party, i cannot help but notice the double standards and hypocrisy of the dutch government. it overlooks its ally's undemocratic practices, but becomes extremely rigorous when it comes to assessing the readiness of romania and bulgaria for schengen accession or the lifting of work restrictions for european citizens in the new member states. the dutch government's indifference is evidenced by its refusal to condemn the racist campaign of its extremist pvv partners, who have come to dictate the european policies of the netherlands. it is more than dangerous to encourage a good dutch citizen to spy on a non-dutch european citizen. isn't this similar to what happened in fascist germany? the long democratic tradition must compel the dutch government to give up this cheap populism. the commission must be involved in protecting the fundamental rights of european citizens and stop any act of racism from the outset.
i'm going to talk about a topic that my colleagues, encio and marinescu, talked about earlier. president schulz also spoke at the opening of the plenary session, but unfortunately, saying that there was no documentation, he did not want us to take a clear position on the statements and gestures of mr wilders, the chairman of the party for freedom in the netherlands. as i said, it's about the idea of opening a site where citizens from central and eastern europe are stigmatized. i would like to draw attention to the fact that it is the same party that conditioned support for the government in the hague on the refusal to accept romania into schengen. despite the fact that all the other member countries think that romania, like bulgaria, deserves to join schengen, the dutch government blocks its entry, again, under wilders' blackmail. it should also be understood that this is happening in the context of the netherlands being one of the countries that has continued to introduce restrictions for romanian citizens on the labour market. this combination of restrictions on the labour market, arbitrariness in the schengen area and, respectively, stigmatisation of citizens coming from romania is very embarrassing for a european. romania, i remind you, is five years older in europe.
member of the commission. - again, mr president, beach concessions are covered by the services directive. this was voted by parliament and also approved by the council of ministers when the directive was adopted in 2006. i am charged - that is my job and that is my role, you cannot expect anything else from me - to implement this text as precisely, quickly and intelligently as possible, including as regards the coastal concessions. i know how sensitive this issue is in italy. we have - as i said in rome, and i can confirm this - engaged in a constructive dialogue with the italian authorities to bring the national framework into line with the directive. legislation has been proposed in italy and in implementing this directive we will take account of all the services provided by these beach concessionaries, particularly in terms of safety. i can confirm that the services directive is being applied rigorously, sincerely but pragmatically to all the sectors covered by the law you voted for.
member of the commission. - i do not think, mr morganti, on the basis of the information at my disposal, that the italian government intends to adopt a provision by decree which would amend a european law voted by the council of ministers and parliament. in any case, it does not seem to me that this is the attitude of the new italian prime minister, whom i know well and who was himself a member of the european commission for ten years and therefore a guardian of the treaties as we are today. what we are preparing for, what i am committed to, is pragmatic, concrete, serious work so that this directive covering beach concessions can be applied to this sector, taking into account, in an intelligent way, the tourist activity to which i am very sensitive. i have been responsible in my previous capacity for a region which is one of the most touristic in france and i know, mr morganti, the importance of the tourist economy. but there is also no reason why the services directive should not be applied in practice to players in the competitive sector, taking account of the specific nature of a particular trade. that is the spirit in which we are: rigorous, sincere and pragmatic application of the services directive to all the sectors it covers, according to the text you have voted.
mr president, in europe we are having a very hard winter. many people are dying every day. in my country 75 people have already died. it is a real tragedy. i urge you to propose a moment’s silence in memory of our brothers and sisters who have died in romania and in other european countries.
in writing. − improving the understanding of the value of intellectual property and an ambitious approach to intellectual property rights are essential to achieving the ambitious goals of the europe 2020 strategy. the high level of infringements of intellectual property rights represents a serious threat to the proper functioning of the internal market and, in many cases, to the health and safety of european consumers. the increase in counterfeiting and piracy also leads to considerable losses of tax revenue for the member states. effective, immediate and coordinated action at national, european and global levels is needed to combat this phenomenon effectively. among them, i would like to stress the importance of creating new competitive business models that broaden the legal supply of cultural and creative content necessary to promote economic growth, employment and cultural diversity. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union's economic prosperity is based on a process sustained by creativity, cultural diversity and innovation, the driving forces of a rapidly evolving knowledge society. protection of intellectual property rights (ipr) is therefore beneficial for the business environment, innovators and consumers, and those involved in cultural creations. in order to encourage greater cooperation between member states on ipr protection, the commission has set up the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy. the observatory and its increasingly numerous activities and tasks need to be embedded in a functional and cost-effective institutional structure, which enables it to carry out its tasks effectively and to support the fight against ipr infringements. i also believe that it would be beneficial for european citizens, business and public administration if the observatory developed a public platform accessible online, providing information and examples of best practices, awareness-raising methods that can be downloaded free of charge, and capacity-building initiatives on the many legislative and non-legislative means of combating ipr infringements.
in writing. − to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and especially the smart growth component, the eu needs research and innovation, and for those who innovate to be rewarded for their efforts both intellectually and financially, it is essential that intellectual property rights are properly protected. i therefore supported the agreement at first reading between parliament and the council which aims to make the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy more efficient by placing it under the administration of ohim, a solution which is optimal both in terms of cost and of the observatory's access to ohim's expertise and resources. the observatory will thus be able to contribute more effectively to consumer awareness of counterfeiting and piracy, including the economic impact and risks for consumers. i am also confident that the new regulation will improve cooperation both at european and international level in the fight against counterfeiting and piracy and will help to develop new business models that increase the legal supply of cultural content, thus supporting economic growth and cultural diversity.
in writing. − this legislative resolution of the european parliament - on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the attribution of tasks relating to the protection of intellectual property rights, including the bringing together of representatives of the public and private sectors in the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy, the office for harmonisation in the internal market (trade marks and designs) - should facilitate and support the activities of national authorities, the private sector and the eu institutions in respect of the enforcement of intellectual property rights and, in particular, their activities in combating infringements of such rights. in particular, in the context of the impact of digitalisation and new technologies on the protection of intellectual property rights, it is necessary to transfer the tasks of the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy to the office for harmonisation in the internal market, given that the latter has the necessary financial resources and expertise. i support this merger to strengthen a coordinated policy in the fight against counterfeiting, as well as the proposal to develop a public platform accessible online, to inform and raise public awareness of the risks of counterfeiting and piracy, which can affect both the health of consumers due to lack of quality and the budgets of states through the loss of considerable tax revenues.
in writing. − the eu 2020 strategy puts smart growth at the forefront, alongside creativity, knowledge and innovation, all of which are seen as drivers of future growth. this requires stimulating research, promoting innovation and knowledge transfer. in addition, innovative ideas need to be translated into new products and services, which can contribute to the creation of quality jobs. i think it is useful in this context to pay particular attention to the activities of small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to avoid difficult access for them when they need to assert their intellectual property rights. i also believe that it is useful to undertake joint actions, including for the consultation of member states, and to stimulate international cooperation with intellectual property offices in third countries with a view to developing strategies and techniques for the practical application of intellectual property rights, as well as specific skills and tools in the field.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the assignment of tasks relating to the protection of intellectual property rights (ipr), including the bringing together of representatives of the public and private sectors in the european monitoring centre for counterfeiting and piracy, the office for harmonization in the internal market (trade marks and designs). compliance with ipr ensures both fair benefits for those who create and innovate and protection of consumers from the risk of buying counterfeit products. a eurobarometer survey carried out in 2009 shows that one in five eu citizens has inadvertently bought a counterfeit product at least once. particular attention should be paid to combating counterfeiting of medicines, food and cosmetics or household appliances, which can cause serious harm to consumers. i believe that it is important that all consumers are constantly informed about the effects and dangers of counterfeiting and piracy and that coordinated and sustainable action is needed to combat ipr infringement in full respect of fundamental human rights and freedoms. furthermore, the information obligations imposed on member states and the private sector by this regulation should not create unnecessary administrative burdens and data already provided to the union institutions should be reusable.
in writing. − with the establishment of the single market, many trading companies have expanded their activities beyond national borders. this increase in cross-border economic activity requires better interconnection of company registers. at present, information on companies is easily available in the country where they are registered, but access to the same information from another member state may be hampered by a number of technical or linguistic barriers. the frequency of updating of trade data is not harmonised, with users lacking information on the accuracy of these data. the interconnection of company registers is a very important measure, but the success of this interconnection will depend entirely on the closest possible cooperation between the commission and the member states.
in writing. − improving access to up-to-date information on companies can generate greater market confidence, contributing to economic recovery and improving the competitiveness of european companies. the objectives of the directive proposed by the european commission are: to increase confidence in the single market by creating a safer business environment for consumers, creditors and other trading partners; to boost the competitiveness of european businesses by reducing administrative burdens and providing greater legal certainty; to improve the functioning of public administration by promoting cooperation between european trade registers in the field of cross-border mergers, transfers of head offices and updating of the registration of foreign branches, procedures for which there are currently no or insufficient cooperation mechanisms. the amendments to the current legislation aim to facilitate cross-border access to official business information by creating an electronic network of registers and establishing a common minimum set of information to be made available to third parties by electronic means in each member state.
in writing. − in the context of the intensification of cross-border economic activities, in order to improve transparency and legal certainty, and to enhance the process of european integration, it is necessary to stimulate the interconnection of company registers. the management of computerised, interconnected and uniformly regulated registers, in order to mitigate the current differences in national management, will also save money and time, especially in the case of the transfer of the registered office and of restructuring operations such as mergers and divisions involving companies from different member states. even though directive 2005/56/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 26 october 2005 on cross-border mergers of public limited liability companies requires registers to cooperate across borders, in practice there is still no effective cross-border cooperation and official communication that would speed up procedures and reduce costs for companies operating in several countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directives 89/666/eec, 2005/56/ec and 2009/101/ec as regards the interconnection of central, commercial and companies registers. the demand for access to company information in a cross-border context is increasing as companies expand their activities across national borders. the interconnection of central business and company registers is also necessary due to a large number of restructuring operations, such as mergers and divisions, which often involve companies from different member states. the objectives of this directive are to improve cross-border access to information relating to undertakings, to create the necessary conditions for the storage of up-to-date information in branch registers and to establish clear channels of communication between registers in cross-border registration procedures. according to the directive, the system of interconnection of registers will consist of: member states' registers, a european central platform and the portal serving as a european electronic access point. member states will ensure the interoperability of their registers through the platform and will be able to set up optional access points to the european system for the interconnection of registers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution. a new protocol between guinea-bissau and the european union needs to be concluded. the protocol will accompany the fisheries partnership agreement concluded between the two parties in 2008. the total production of the industrial fisheries sector in the guinea-bissau area was estimated at 53 000 tonnes. half of the production in this area is small pelagic fish. the monitoring, control and surveillance capacity of fisheries and the sanitary inspection capacity need to be improved. i draw attention to the importance of the eu monitoring the respect of human rights by the guinea-bissau authorities. i welcome the inclusion in the protocol of additional clauses on the suspension and review of financial compensation. these clauses must be applied in the event of violations of human rights and democratic principles.
in writing. − guinea-bissau is one of the world's least developed countries, highly dependent on international donor support, which provides almost a third of national income. the eu, the main donor, thus provides, with its annual contribution of some eur 100 million, one tenth of the country's national income. in these circumstances, it is necessary to continue supporting the promotion of sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in guinea-bissau. it is important that this new protocol introduces additional clauses according to which violations of human rights in guinea-bissau may lead to the suspension of the payment of the eu financial contribution, in accordance with article 9 of the cotonou agreement. i also believe that there is a need for closer monitoring of persistent problems such as illegal fishing due to insufficient surveillance, the increase in discarded catches of undersized and non-commercial species, non-compliance with eu health rules affecting bilateral trade, and non-compliance with the reporting requirements for eu vessels. last but not least, it is worrying, in relation to this report, how the european commission has understood to collaborate with parliament and to respect its decision-making role.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of a protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the kingdom of morocco, of the other part, on a framework agreement between the european union and the kingdom of morocco on the general principles governing the participation of the kingdom of morocco in european union programmes. on 5 march 2007, the council expressed its support for enabling the european neighbourhood policy partners to participate in the activities of community agencies and community programmes on their merits and when the legal bases allow. morocco has thus expressed its wish to participate in a number of union programmes. the specific terms and conditions for the participation of morocco in each programme, in particular the financial contribution and the reporting and evaluation procedures, should be laid down by agreement between the commission and the competent authorities of morocco. morocco shall contribute financially to the general budget of the union in accordance with the specific programmes to which it contributes, and representatives of morocco may participate, as observers and in relation to matters concerning morocco, in the work of the management committees responsible for monitoring the programmes to which morocco contributes financially.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider food security to be a basic principle of the union. vaccination against bluetongue should be adapted to new scientific developments. thus, the use of inactivated vaccines is much more effective than the currently used method of live attenuated vaccines. they are also more economically viable. the number of affected animals is small and vaccinated herds should not be geographically isolated. i would also stress the epidemiological risk posed by the use of live attenuated vaccines to the ovine population in the affected region. i also consider it essential to introduce correlation tables in the relevant legislation. this facilitates the transparency of the implementation of these provisions. i think it is essential to reach agreement on this technical amendment.
in writing. − i consider the wojciechowski report on vaccination against bluetongue to be very important and i believe that this legislation needs to be adopted quickly to allow member states the option of using the bluetongue vaccine when it is needed to prevent infection or reduce the threat of other animals being infected. the commission will have to continue to monitor the emergence of bluetongue, but also pay particular attention to the recent emergence of schmallenberg virus and invest time and money to find a solution to this devastating virus.
in writing. - i would like to stress the importance of the report on vaccination against bluetongue presented by janusz wojciechowski and approved today without a vote. i wonder why parliament does not recognise its importance and why a debate in plenary was not organised, especially since it would have given us the opportunity to discuss another serious and neglected issue. i am referring to the schmallenberg virus, detected in ruminant farms in germany, the netherlands and belgium.
in writing. − i supported this ep legislative resolution for two significant reasons. firstly, because in recent years the bluetongue virus has spread in europe and caused significant losses for farmers (e.g. morbidity and distorted trade in live animals). secondly, because recent technological developments in vaccine production can ensure more effective control of bluetongue and lessen the negative impact of this disease on the agricultural sector.
in writing. − the aim is to create a single euro payments area (sepa). the proposal of the european parliament and the council to lay down technical requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro appears as a measure to strengthen the functioning of the internal market so that consumers can enjoy the benefits of an integrated market for electronic payments in euro. it also aims to eliminate the high costs associated with the parallel operation of existing traditional instruments and sepa. the main beneficiaries will be consumers, who will be able to make euro payments in europe more cheaply and safely.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation to lay down technical requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro, as secure payment systems are essential for the smooth functioning of the internal market. the creation of a single euro payments area is of paramount importance and must be achieved for the efficiency and substantial savings it offers. i consider the provisions on the need to inform and protect consumers and on the exclusion of high value payments from this system to be significant in this respect. banks are obliged to have a transparent information policy in their dealings with customers in order to ensure that the proposed changes are accepted without loss by european citizens.
in writing. − i believe that the creation of a single euro payments area will bring important benefits to european consumers. the introduction of a common technical system for conducting banking transactions in euro will simplify and make it cheaper to carry out these transactions. the report also proposes a set of deadlines for the transition to the single area, alongside user information programmes, which will facilitate the transition to the new system. in this context, i voted in favour of the report on the technical requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro.
in writing. − the european commission wants to replace the national euro payments system with a european one. the single euro payments area (also known as sepa) is based on the development of common payment services at european union level, which are to replace the current national payment services. this means, in short, that national and cross-border payments, bank transfers and direct debits are subject to the same legal regime. there are many problems with pay differentials in the european union. i support this initiative and would like to see consumer rights protected. this initiative should simplify the whole process and lead to increased competition which would normally lead to lower prices for services.
in writing. − in the context of the creation of a single euro payments area (sepa), real competition will be achieved and the differences in treatment between cross-border and national payments will be eliminated. this will bring significant benefits to the european economy and provide european individuals and legal entities with cost-effective, user-friendly and reliable euro payment services. i consider the proposal for a regulation to be beneficial as it seeks to simplify the legislation on accessibility for direct debit and credit transfer into one provision. simplifying payment processing will have direct beneficial effects for stakeholders, including public administrations, legal entities and natural persons. for consumers, who are increasingly mobile, the changes to standardised cross-border payments will eliminate the need to maintain several payment accounts in different countries. this will automatically lead to lower costs for them and increased operability.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament's legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation laying down technical requirements for credit transfers and direct debits in euro, as the creation of an integrated market for electronic payments in euro, without distinguishing between national and cross-border payments, is necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. the single euro payments area (sepa) aims at the development of common payment services at union level, which are to replace the current national payment services. as a result of the introduction of common and open payment standards, rules and practices and through integrated payment processing, sepa is to offer secure, cost-effective, reliable and user-friendly euro payment services to natural and legal persons in the union. they should apply to sepa payments at national and international level, under the same basic conditions and with the same rights and obligations, regardless of their location within the union. it is of the utmost importance that all stakeholders, in particular union citizens, are adequately and timely informed in order to be fully prepared for the changes brought about by sepa.
in writing. - there is a consensus that the possibilities of the european single market are not being used to their full potential. i welcome the fact that this consensus is being translated into concrete decisions. the full use of the single market requires instruments and sepa is one such instrument. the free movement of labour and capital and the need to help european smes in practice to enjoy the benefits of the single market will only become a reality if the european banking system, today fragmented by the borders of the member states, becomes a system that operates under harmonised rules. the possibility of using one bank account and one banking service provider in the eu is an advantage for the average citizen, for companies, but especially for smes. the new sepa rules are all the more important as they will lead to the strengthening of the internal market in many areas, such as financial services and e-commerce. today's overwhelming vote in the ep plenary is more than a vote in favour of sepa, it is a vote of confidence in the euro.
first of all, i'd like to thank everyone involved for their efforts to find a compromise on this program. in the european union, poverty is deepening, and millions of people cannot afford a hot meal for more than a few days at a time. over 18 million european citizens have benefited from food through this programme. therefore, reducing its allocation or funding from national budgets, especially in a time of economic crisis, would have been a catastrophic decision. i would like to stress the need to keep this programme with cap funding beyond 2013 and i would like to express my concern at the statements by the german and french governments about its elimination. i want to convey to them that the right to food is a fundamental one. moreover, in a difficult time of deep economic crisis, we have a huge debt to the most vulnerable categories of citizens. just as states have a duty to help those who cannot help themselves, so the european union must show that solidarity is not just a principle on paper.
i don't think i need to make any more arguments in favor of the food distribution program for the most disadvantaged. even if it comes at the last minute, the approval of its funding is a hand out to our fellow citizens who face special problems. this programme, which has been proving its effectiveness for 25 years, is a sign of a europe of solidarity and unity. more than one in 30 europeans have received food aid in recent years, and i want to remind you that of the 40 countries in the world that are most food-vulnerable, four are members of the european union. i congratulate the commission on its efforts to break the deadlock, i congratulate the council on its wisdom and compassion, and i congratulate the rapporteur on all his work. at the same time, i believe that the european parliament should already be thinking about the future of this programme after 2013. finding the appropriate legal basis, together with the council and the commission, is the first step we have to take. are the costs of the program high? no, it's one euro a year from each of the 500 million europeans. the united states spent $85 billion on food assistance last year, 15 percent more than in 2010. over 43 million people, more than one in every eight americans, have benefited from this aid. in this period, we talk a lot about productivity, about growth, about innovation. i am convinced beyond a shadow of a doubt that these are the right solutions for resuming economic growth, but we have no moral right to ignore the poor of europe. the food aid program has worked for a quarter of a century and must remain a safety net for those in need.
the rise in the prices of basic foodstuffs in recent years has severely eroded the purchasing power of european citizens. the economic and financial crisis in the european union has had a significant impact, systematically increasing the social vulnerability of the union's most disadvantaged citizens. continuing the food distribution program is a vital measure in the current economic and political context. it could provide strong support for 18 million europeans without imposing additional burdens on national budgets. we need a transitional solution very urgently for the remaining years of the current multiannual financial framework. the proposal has been stalled in the council for two years and we are pleased to finally have a compromise. i would like to thank the commission and commissioner ciolos for their efforts. i therefore support the adoption of measures to resume the granting of this aid as soon as possible by the union, and the proposal by the epp group to extend the programme into the next multiannual financial perspective.
in writing. the european programme for the disadvantaged has contributed to the objectives of social policy, alongside its agricultural dimension in the common agricultural policy. the programme has proved to be an important tool for certain categories of people affected by poverty, especially in the context of the current economic and financial crisis. this programme is an instrument through which the european union can directly help people in need in over 20 member states, thus demonstrating that the principle of european solidarity works. i appreciate that this year this programme will continue, because in romania alone, in 2011, ngos came to the aid of over 2,800,000 people with very low incomes. however, i believe it is vital that this support continues into the future and i believe that european support for the disadvantaged should be at a level comparable to that of this year, knowing that the common agricultural policy has social components and that the needy must continue to be assisted. on the basis of the principle of european solidarity, member states which oppose the programme must demonstrate their understanding of the situation of the poor and accept the continuation of the programme within the parameters required, while at the same time demonstrating solidarity at union level.
in writing. the council's blockade of the programme for the distribution of basic foodstuffs to the most vulnerable must not continue, especially in the current period of financial crisis in which these categories of the population suffer the most. the council's position, even if it is not entirely satisfactory, must be adopted by the european parliament as soon as possible in order to be able to unblock food aid as a matter of urgency. on the positive side, the programme will not suffer any financial cuts and will also remain 100% funded from the community budget. at the same time, it will rely on european agricultural products, which will help to support eu domestic production. on the other hand, the existence of the food aid programme for the most vulnerable groups is unfortunately not yet guaranteed after 2013. i believe that it is necessary to extend the programme under the same parameters beyond 2013, given that the number of people who really need this programme is not expected to decrease, but on the contrary to increase.
the adoption of the report on the milk package is a small step forward for farmers. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full, and i am glad that the commission has taken this step. without denying either the necessity or the usefulness of these measures, i allow myself to make some comments. first: the european union is preparing for a future common agricultural policy, starting in 2014. in this future policy, solutions must be found for dairy farmers - and i am talking about funds for modernisation, grants for grazing land, for the establishment of young farmers and support measures for times of crisis. that is why we need a properly funded cap. second comment: the need for regulation, for supply management, has been discussed. i don't think that's what we need, but better regulation of relationships along the supply chain, in all areas of food production, to limit the abuses that are known to everyone by distributors and traders.
mr. president, i have to go. i too would like to welcome the report by my colleague, all the more so since the amendments he has tabled and which have been supported by the committee on agriculture and rural development seem to take into account the interests of milk producers in the new member states. the commission has also concluded that the measures provided for in this decision are in line with the principle of proportionality. i would like to emphasize that in the eastern half of europe, the shock of this will be magnified. in this context, i would like to draw the attention of the commission and the parliament to the fact that perhaps the creation of producer organisations could be encouraged more strongly in these countries, since producers are often in a completely vulnerable position when negotiating with buyers. this does not serve the objectives of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. i would like to remind you first of the fact that not one but two agreements on our relations with morocco were before parliament today. as regards morocco's participation in the union's programmes, a text which was voted on earlier and for which i was the fictitious rapporteur, there is a broad consensus in parliament. this protocol is in accordance with the advanced status of morocco in its relations with the union. it will allow morocco to be effectively involved in the elaboration and monitoring of the implementation of current and future union programmes. in addition, morocco is treated as an equal partner of the member states since (subject to any financial assistance it may request) it will contribute to the union budget for programmes of interest to it. i can only hope that we will be able to reach the same consensus on the eu-morocco agreement on agricultural and fisheries products. the consequences of this agreement for the agricultural and fisheries sectors at european level are, in my view, adequately addressed in the final text. on the other hand, for our moroccan partners, this agreement is a test of the credibility of our commitment to support a country engaged in a vast process of reforms achieved by consensus.
in writing. the european union has made a habit of concluding trade agreements with third countries to the detriment of its farmers. our farmers are forced to compete with cheaper products from outside the union that do not meet the same standards of hygiene or animal welfare. i would like to stress that european farmers need to be compensated for the losses they have suffered as a result of the liberalisation of agricultural trade with morocco. i also think that we need to show solidarity with morocco, given the fragile political situation in that region, but we must not forget that intensifying agriculture in that country will lead to an overuse of water resources and could also cause serious environmental problems. at the same time, i ask the european commission to ensure before this agreement is signed that the products imported will not come from farms that employ child labour.
i am convinced that in the future the single market will include the single market for common bonds. the question is, when in the future? and here, of course, it would be good to have had political union, but we don't have it, and then i think we all have to recognize that the member states must first of all regain their credibility on the financial markets through concrete results, achieved in the implementation of the new european legislation and the treaty that is being signed on economic governance, on financial stability. we talk a lot about solidarity, it is a strong european value, but we cannot accept that it should be extended to the fact that some member states have to finance the excess expenditure of other member states and at low cost. we also have to recognise that, whatever we want to do, member states will pay different interest costs for the loans they take out, as long as their credibility on the financial markets is different.
the commission's annual analysis for 2012 shows that the economic recovery in the eu is experiencing a period of stagnation, with economic growth forecast to be only 0.6% for this year. the deepening of the euro area sovereign debt crisis is worrying. in this context, joint bonds could be an effective tool to address liquidity issues. they represent a step forward towards common fiscal sovereignty among the euro area countries. the issuance of the stability bonds could also help to ensure financing at a low cost. it would have a positive effect on the national markets. the eu must provide economic and budgetary surveillance measures for countries facing severe financial instability. it is important that budgetary discipline be strengthened.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, this is quite an experience: 22 people are on the list to speak and there are only 5 in the chamber. i am saying this by way of response to the remark of honourable member werner langen, who mentioned that 18 reactions to olli rehn’s speech was quite a low number. i could not agree more, but his reaction and his conclusion on that number was that the commission did not do the job properly. i do not accept that conclusion. olli rehn is doing a great job. he could not be here today, but i can assure you he has to be active in the solution for greece. having said that i think that it is quite remarkable that as i began my speech mr bloom was saying ‘i have to go’, ‘i am hungry’. this type of reaction is not in keeping with the importance of the issue we are dealing with. i am more than willing to do the job and to give the answers that i have available on this subject. the subject is too important not to reply in full. i completely agree and, therefore, arguments in favour of pursuing eurobonds are clear. stability bonds would provide all participating member states with more secure access to refinancing, and reduce or eliminate the need for costly support and rescue measures for member states temporarily excluded from market financing. stability bonds would enhance financial stability and they would provide the source of more robust collateral for all banks in the euro area. this would reduce banks’ vulnerability to any deterioration in the credit ratings of individual member states, and other institutional investors would benefit from a more homogeneous and robust safe asset. but stability bonds are not a measure to address the current crisis. they are the next step in eu integration and a tool to limit the risk of future crises. stability bonds can make the euro-area financial system more resilient to future adverse shocks and so reinforce financial stability. we also need to be clear about legal, technical and political challenges. for example, the issuance of stability bonds under joint and several guarantees would, a priori, lead to a situation where the article 125 ban on bail-outs would be breached. in this case, an amendment to the treaty would be necessary. i do not need to explain to you the likelihood of success of such changes in the current circumstances. in so far as the introduction of stability bonds will increase the pooling of risk between participating countries, this might have the effect of weakening market discipline. this means that it is of crucial importance that all participating member states have confidence in other participants’ economic and budgetary policies, and thus a higher degree of control over each other’s policies. therefore, an increase in surveillance and in intrusiveness in the design and implementation of national fiscal policies would be warranted beyond the recent initiatives, and by that i am talking about the six-pack, the fiscal compact treaty and article 136 regulations proposed by the commission. the very existence of stability bonds could fundamentally alter budgetary processes, notably via the allocation mechanisms. the participating member states would collectively decide and approve individual budgetary plans through the allocation of bonds. all these issues require careful further reflection. the commission will therefore continue seeking the views of key stakeholders in this respect and will therefore consult, in particular, member states, financial market operators, financial market industry associations and academics within the eu and beyond. once sufficient clarity has been established on all those issues, the commission will give its views on the appropriate way forward. i sincerely hope that those who remain in the chamber and who are interested in the debate can accept this response in the name of olli rehn.
in writing. i consider it necessary to pool the risks faced by member states on financial markets. in the context of the threat of a downgrade of france by the credit rating agencies and the increasing difficulties faced by germany in financing itself a few months ago, it is clear that the refusal to implement eurobonds will only worsen the current situation for all the member states of the union. the creation of a single european bond market, alongside the setting of debt reduction targets for member states under the supervision of the european executive, would allow the euro to stabilise, increase liquidity and achieve significantly lower interest rates. a single currency cannot function without a common bond market and a common fiscal policy, and the euro has the potential to become a global reserve currency. in this context, i welcome the european commission's initial proposal on the stability bonds. as a result of the consultations, it should rapidly present a roadmap for the launch of this instrument.
the commission proposal for a decision of september 2010 establishing the first radio spectrum policy programme sets out policy guidelines and objectives for the strategic planning and harmonisation of the use of radio spectrum by 2015. the radio spectrum policy programme reflects the importance of the availability and efficient use of spectrum for the internal market for electronic communications and for other eu policy areas such as transport, research, earth observation, satellite navigation systems, environmental protection and combating global warming. i welcome the fact that the amendments which i proposed and which were adopted by parliament were also included in the agreement reached by the council and parliament. they shall aim at including in the policy objectives the following objectives: 1. in article 3 (c), to close the digital divide and achieve the objectives of the digital agenda by ensuring that all union citizens have access to broadband at a rate of at least 30 mbps by 2020 and by enabling the union to have the highest possible speed and capacity for broadband services; 2. in article 3 (l), to stimulate the accessibility of new products and technologies to consumers so that the switch to digital technology and the efficient use of the digital dividend are supported by consumers. i also welcome the inclusion in article 4 (3) of the need to pay special attention to standards for equipment to be used by disabled people. the decision provides for an inventory of the current use of radio spectrum for commercial and public purposes. the inventory will be managed by the commission, which will adopt implementing acts by july 2013 to define the modalities and formats for the collection and transmission of data by member states. the commission shall submit a report to the council and parliament on the implementation of this decision no later than two years after its entry into force and shall carry out a review of its implementation by 31 december 2015.
europe needs a flexible and coordinated radio spectrum policy. it will contribute to the creation of a pan-european telecommunications market. radio spectrum is essential for the digital society. it is important that the eu takes the lead in the world in terms of broadband speeds, mobility, coverage and capacity. the digital gap must be eliminated. the feasibility of extending unlicensed frequency allocations for wireless access systems shall be assessed. this technology needs to be accessible in rural areas, not just urban areas. i also draw attention to the protection measures against electromagnetic fields. the use of radio spectrum must not, however, endanger the health of citizens and it is therefore essential to ensure continuous monitoring of the effects of spectrum use.
as a limited resource, the use we make of the radio spectrum is of particular importance if we are to maximise the benefits for end-users and private operators. the agreement recently reached by the european parliament and the council demonstrates the european institutions' determination to take the lead globally in this technology. providing eu-wide internet access, high-speed connections and the standardisation of the 800 mhz frequency for electronic communications can help to bridge the digital divide, as studies show that data traffic is continuing to increase worldwide. in view of this, it is necessary to consider the usefulness of standardising other frequency bands. european regulation and harmonisation of spectrum allocation rules will provide the basis for innovation and increased competitiveness, helping us to meet the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing. we have been talking more and more about the development of the digital single market lately, given the trend towards digitisation and the evolution of the consumer habits of europeans. the demand for mobile data services has doubled in recent times and the trend is still rising. as the commissioner pointed out, european consumers are increasingly using audiovisual content on mobile devices, and this requires better mobile broadband services and, of course, sufficient radio spectrum. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu concerning the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' and the definition of the concept of 'originating products' in accordance with article 3 of directive 2014/25/eu. the release of the 800 mhz band and its availability for electronic communications services will remove technical constraints for the development of new mobile data services. the allocation of at least 1200 mhz for mobile data services by 2015 is another positive measure in this respect. i believe that the agreement we are voting on tomorrow is one that will bring us closer to the goals of the digital agenda and contribute to the eu's competitiveness, and i will support it wholeheartedly.
we can all see that it confirms a historical economic truth, namely that the exit, the recovery from a crisis that started in the financial sector is much more difficult and much longer in time. in this context, we can say that 2012 is a very important year for europe, in which we can either take the necessary steps to return to growth or enter what is called a lost decade for development. to get out of this stagnation, i believe that both the commission and the member states need to re-allocate resources, re-prioritize and really allocate the resources needed for growth and job creation.
the current figures in the european union are worrying: 5 million young people are unemployed, 7.5 million young people between the ages of 15 and 24 who have not studied or trained and are out of work. the potential of the young generation must not be lost, and that is why the european council in march must make the fight against youth unemployment a priority. in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, member states should address youth unemployment in their 2012 national reform programmes. moreover, these programmes need to include a youth guarantee guaranteeing the right of any young person in the european union to benefit from an apprenticeship and a formula combining work and vocational training after a period of four months of unemployment. complementing these measures, member states should support initiatives that facilitate green jobs, social and health services, known as white jobs, and the digital economy.
in writing. the eu has sound instruments and policies to stimulate growth and job creation. but they need to be used effectively. • at the same time, viable solutions for young people and smes must be found. the structural funds must be supplemented and the number of jobs must be increased. • national employment plans should include measures to redirect the tax burden on wage income. • welcomes the adoption by the commission of the report on the alert mechanism. • this mechanism aims to identify member states facing potentially problematic levels of macroeconomic imbalances. • 12 member states were identified on the basis of economic and financial indicators. • it is important that the march council discusses the eu's participation in the g8, g20 and rio+20 meetings. • europe must have a firm and coherent common position on sustainable development.
in writing. – the current neo-liberal policy of the troika in greece is disarticulating the society and destroying the state. a new tranche of financial assistance was postponed yesterday giving rise to fears of an upcoming greek default. what is more worrisome, however, is the apparent willingness of some eurozone member states to let this scenario unfold, despite real efforts from the greek government in complying with their demands and imposing new austerity measures. solidarity with greece must not falter. a greek default could have immeasurable consequences on greek society and on the economies of the eurozone countries, although it seems a more palatable scenario for some member states than a few years ago. nonetheless, it is a path that must be firmly rejected. instead, the eu member states should continue assuming responsibility and should aim for further promoting debt restructuring negotiations and federalising credit guarantees. moreover, measures for bank recapitalisation, as well as measures intended to stimulate investment, employment and economic growth need to be soon and boldly implemented. for all this to be achieved, political will towards speeding up the common economic governance and fiscal solidarity is essential.
in writing. the members of the european council, in their declaration of 31 january, committed themselves to a growth and employment-friendly consolidation. the march european council is to provide guidance on the economic and employment policies of the member states, with particular emphasis on exploiting the full potential of green growth and accelerating structural reforms to increase competitiveness and job creation. in doing so, due account must be taken of the growing divergences between the economic situations of the member states and the social consequences of the crisis. the march european council is to propose measures to boost employment, especially among young people, to complete the single market and to boost financing for the economy, in particular smes, including by better directing available eu funds towards growth and employment, within agreed ceilings. we call on the member states to invest as a priority in transport, energy and communications infrastructure, research and innovation, education and health, agricultural development and, in particular, the development of european industry. these investments will increase the eu's competitiveness and, above all, create jobs within the eu.
i feel it is important to stress in connection with the 2012 growth survey, as my colleague's report points out, that we cannot neglect the social aspects in dealing with the european debt crisis. the debt crisis is the biggest problem facing european countries at the moment, but the burden of dealing with it cannot be disproportionately placed on the population. the events of recent years have called into question the view that has been widely held in the developed world that rising living standards are gradual, that some increases are gradual, some are gradual, and that future generations will live better than we do. this view can be reinforced by fiscal consolidation, and economic growth, employment growth and social responsibility are sacrificed on the altar of macroeconomic stability. i hope that in a few years' time we will not look back on 2012 as a failure to prevent social tensions from flaring up because of the social crisis.
all good and beautiful! both the reports presented and the commission's intervention are, however, contradicted in some places by the dramatic reality in the member states. once unemployed people are out of pay, out of benefits, at least in romania's case, they disappear as both a statistic and a concern of the government. they no longer exist in the package of the agitation, the worry, the preoccupation of society. the reform of the pension system and the flexibilization of the labour market that has been discussed here are also very nice, very important, but in romania, under the supervision of the international monetary fund and the european commission, this reform has been implemented, which means: the complete dismantling of the legislative and institutional framework for trade union activity, the dismantling of the labour code, the de facto dissolution of the economic and social council and the refusal of the social partners to participate in the so-called dialogue. if we do not seek a recovery, a response to these turmoils, romania remains just a part of european statistics - and it is still a member state! i'd like to think we're getting out of this liberal unorthodoxy and trying to find answers. i would not wish anyone to live a day in the shoes of the unemployed in romania, here in strasbourg or anywhere in the member states.
in writing. the european union continues to face the imperative of overcoming the effects of the international economic and financial crisis. measures such as continuing to invest in the medium and long term with a view to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, and making investments to stimulate economic growth in the short term, can prove to be the instruments by which the confidence of european citizens and financial markets in the commercial and industrial capacity of the european union can be restored. it is equally important for the success of the european union's economic strategies that several elements on which agreement exists at european level are implemented as quickly as possible in the practice of the member states. the success of the european economic recovery depends crucially on the development of a fiscal consolidation policy that encourages economic growth, the adoption of measures to prevent the increase in youth unemployment, and the launching of targeted measures to prevent social marginalisation and exclusion, in line with the european strategy papers. i support the adoption of the parliamentary proposals. the use of the structural funds to redress these current economic imbalances, based on close cooperation between the commission and the member states, is, alongside the strengthening of the single market, a solution to be considered in the development of the digital economy and the reduction of institutional red tape.
in writing. the motion for a resolution refers to the labour market situation of young people and people approaching retirement age, as well as low-skilled workers, who are considered to be the most severely affected by the crisis. in all areas of economic activity, the three categories are particularly present in agriculture in some member states; i therefore believe that the measures to encourage young farmers to settle down by taking over or extending farms, as well as the early retirement schemes for older farmers, must continue under the future common agricultural policy. it should be borne in mind that rural workers, young or old, have a very special situation, for which special solutions are needed.
in writing. plenary intervention annual growth survey 2012 the social consequences of the crisis are very high, even accentuated by the impact of austerity measures adopted in some countries in response to the sovereign debt crisis, by the reduction of jobs, in the private and public sectors, of social benefits and public services, worsening poverty across the eu. according to eurostat, as of 2010, 41.4% of the romanian population is at risk of poverty or social exclusion, representing 8.89 million people out of a total population of 21.47 million. bulgaria has 42%, latvia 38%, lithuania 33% and hungary 30%. at european level, initiatives that facilitate the development of sectors with the highest job potential should be supported, in particular in the transition to a sustainable economy (green jobs), social and health services (white jobs) and the digital economy. the strategy to combat youth unemployment must also be emphasised.
i voted in favour of this resolution because access to food is a fundamental right. adequate funding is needed in the context of fao warnings of the increasing risk of world hunger. in addition, the extreme weather conditions this winter will certainly have a negative impact on the development of crops in spring. i think we need to send a strong signal to the commission and the council to release the necessary funds. in these difficult times, any delay in taking a decision can cost european citizens. the positive vote by the council on 23 january is a step forward for the continuation of the programme under optimal conditions. a clear strategy in this area for the next financial framework should also be developed.
i voted in favour of this report because the european semester must include policies for job creation. i share the concern about the high unemployment among young people. in my country, it affects about 77,000 people up to the age of 25. it considered that a guarantee for young people should be introduced to avoid prolonged unemployment among them. i stress the usefulness of programmes that ensure the transition from education to first employment. i would point out in this context that romania improved the law on apprenticeships last year, with the aim of facilitating the entry of young people into the labour market. appropriate programmes are needed to support smes, including by reducing red tape. i also welcome the emphasis on promoting labour mobility, but also on increasing the employment rate of women.
in writing. − the association agreement concluded by the council of the european union, on the one hand, and the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway, on the other, led to the establishment of a joint committee composed of representatives of the governments of these states. accordingly, representatives of the associated states participate in the joint committees, which meet in the form of council working groups with the extended participation of representatives of the associated states. at coreper or council level, they shall be chaired alternately for periods of six months by the representatives of the european union and the representative of the government of the associated state. participation in the joint committee shall give the associated states the opportunity to express in due time any concerns related to the developments of the schengen acquis which are to be adopted by all associated states, as well as the implementation of the acquis. following discussions within the joint committee, the measures taken to develop the schengen acquis shall be adopted by the council and the european parliament by the appropriate decision-making procedure provided for in the treaties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that, as schengen associated states, iceland, norway, liechtenstein and switzerland should be involved in the procedure for assisting the commission in the exercise of its executive powers in the area of the application and development of the schengen acquis. in the same vein, these countries must also be involved in the process of reforming schengen governance, which is currently being negotiated but which unfortunately faces opposition from several member states.
in writing. − the participation of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, norway and switzerland in the committees which assist the european commission in implementing and developing the schengen acquis gives these associated states the opportunity to express any objections related to the application of the provisions in question. the countries concerned are thus involved in the legislative process in this area but not in decision-making. it is therefore necessary to formalise their association with the schengen comitology in accordance with an appropriate procedure. the proposal for a decision in this regard is welcomed to ensure equal treatment of associated states as observers through a single agreement and on the basis of clearly defined rights and obligations. the final decision on the application of the measures adopted in the committees is taken by each country individually, as stipulated in the initial clauses of the association agreements. as a romanian mep, i express the hope that the principle of equal treatment will be respected in all aspects of the schengen process, including in the acceptance of accession of countries that have already fulfilled all the formal criteria.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the employment strategy needs to be modernised. • the eu needs a sustainable economy that creates jobs. • reforms to improve labour market flexibility and security need to be encouraged. • i draw attention to the fact that the eu's workforce is declining. only two thirds of the union's working population are currently employed. • the employment rate is low, particularly among women and the elderly. • the high rate of youth unemployment is also a cause for concern. • in this context, there is a need to improve the performance of education and training systems. • measures must be taken to make vocational education and training more attractive. • the implementation of lifelong learning principles is important.
in writing. − member states' employment policies and especially job creation are one of the most important issues at the moment, as rising unemployment has generated numerous protests in several eu member states last year and this year. i am aware of the labour market problems in all eu countries at the moment, problems accelerated by the financial crisis, which is why i believe that the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy are very relevant. the eu must encourage member states in their efforts to develop their economies on the basis of an inclusive, highly skilled and, not least, demand-driven labour market. however, the role of the member states in this area should not be overlooked either, as they can find significant support from the european social fund, which makes considerable sums available to them in order to create an increasingly competitive labour market. i therefore support this report and consider these guidelines to be fully justified and absolutely necessary for the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and, in particular, the employment objectives.
in writing. − the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that the member states and the union are to develop a coordinated employment strategy and promote a trained, skilled and adaptable workforce and labour markets that are able to react rapidly to economic developments. the europe 2020 strategy for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth proposed by the commission sets five main objectives to guide the action of member states, including the european employment strategy. but in the context of the economic crisis, we risk that all this will remain a dead letter on paper. agree that the employment guidelines adopted in 2010 should remain stable until 2014 so that efforts are focused on their implementation and that member states should consider using the european social fund to implement the employment guidelines. unfortunately, i cannot share the commission's optimism in this respect, since most of the measures adopted, and even those envisaged, are necessary but not sufficient, as the rising rate of unemployment at european level shows.
in writing. − the european union has, and always has had, a highly regarded social model. however, there has been a recent decline in the member states' labour law, social rights and employment policies. i believe it is essential that member states take action in the current economic crisis to deliver on their commitments to increase employment levels, improve individual skills and create employment opportunities to reduce poverty and increase social inclusion. i believe that at union level, a policy of european solidarity and cohesion is needed, with concrete legislative, fiscal and financial measures. it is vital that member states respect those commitments in order to achieve more effective exchanges of best practices and experience in the field of combating social exclusion and poverty reduction, in close alignment with the poverty eradication objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report on the employment policies guidelines for the member states, because it represents an important step in maintaining the continuity of the european union’s strategy for growth and employment, europe 2020. i am very much looking forward to the member states following these guidelines while adopting employment policies, in particular because of the stress on a skilled, trained and adaptable workforce – a real engine for the future growth of europe. in these days of economic and financial problems for the european union, employment and growth become probably the most sensitive issues for the whole political debate. i believe that europe should recognise job creation as a central goal for the revitalisation of our economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the employment guidelines and policies of the member states, taking into account the following considerations. in view of the economic and social difficulties faced by the member states, coordination of economic and employment policies is absolutely necessary. it is important that member states, through their national reform programmes, give priority to developing the labour market, reducing unemployment, especially among young people, and creating new jobs. now more than ever, we need integrated policies that address both economic and social issues. we cannot talk about sustainable economic growth without also considering sustainable job creation. member states must implement appropriate fiscal policies to support investment and encourage smes to create new jobs, and to make efficient use of the structural funds. thus, by supporting smes and using the structural funds, new jobs will be created and youth unemployment can be tackled.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on the proposal for a council decision on guidelines for the employment policies of the member states because, due to the economic and financial crisis, the unemployment rate has risen alarmingly in the eu. according to eurostat, over 23 million people in europe are unemployed. the guidelines set out in decision 2010/707/eu will continue to be applied by the member states in 2012. employment policies should be geared towards: increasing labour market participation, reducing structural unemployment and promoting quality jobs, developing a skilled workforce that meets labour market needs and promoting lifelong learning, improving the quality and performance of education and training systems at all levels and increasing participation in tertiary or equivalent education, and promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. these guidelines aim to achieve the eu's key 2020 targets, such as raising the employment rate to 75%, reducing the school drop-out rate to below 10%, having at least 40% of young people in higher education and lifting at least 20 million people out of the risk of poverty and exclusion.
in writing. − although the eu enjoys, on average, one of the highest standards of living in the world, some people are unable to meet their food needs. it is estimated that there are 43 million people at risk of food poverty in the eu, that is, people who cannot afford to eat a full meal every two days. the programme for the most deprived persons supports the provision of food to these particularly vulnerable persons or families who are in a difficult situation. charitable organisations and ngos rely on the eu's contribution to supporting these people in need. for example, 51% of the products distributed in 2010 by the european federation of food banks came from this programme. each year, more than 18 million people in 20 eu member states benefit from food aid distributed under this programme. in romania, in 2010, over 2.8 million people - pensioners, people with no or very low income, people with disabilities - benefited from this programme. i therefore believe it is essential to find a solution quickly that overcomes the current problems and can make use of the funds available.
in writing. − the programme for the distribution of free food to the most deprived citizens of the european union, launched in 1987 under the common agricultural policy (cap), currently provides aid for 18 million people living in poverty in 20 eu member states. in the eu, 43 million people are at risk of food poverty, a figure that will increase as a result of the economic and financial crisis and rising food prices. if no action is taken, the funds for this programme will have to be reduced in 2012 to eur 133 million, compared to eur 500 million in 2011. the suspension of this aid programme without any prior warning or preparation will have serious repercussions for the most vulnerable eu citizens. a way must be found to continue the food distribution system for the needy in 2012 and 2013 (the remaining years of the current funding period) and also in the 2014-2020 funding period.
in writing. − i believe it is vital that this support continues into the future and i believe that european support for the disadvantaged should be at a level comparable to this year, knowing that the common agricultural policy has social components and that the needy must continue to be assisted. on the basis of the principle of european solidarity, member states which oppose the programme must demonstrate their understanding of the situation of the poor and accept the continuation of the programme within the parameters required, which is also a sign of solidarity at union level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the council position at first reading because the distribution of food products to the most deprived persons is too urgent an issue to be delayed any further. a second reading procedure would only have meant more suffering for the people in need, a scenario which is simply unacceptable. therefore, i think that the position voted for, by overcoming the stalled situation in the council, has to be considered as a valid transitional solution for the remaining years of the current mff. i would also like to express my desire for such a crucial programme to be maintained, or even enhanced, after 2013. too many people still depend on food distribution in europe and we – as representatives of the european people – must undertake this as a personal commitment.
in writing. − over time, the intervention stocks made available by the community have proved to be a safe and stable source of food supplies for the most deprived. the need to supply food has increased as a result of the substantial increase in the needy population and food prices affecting their food security. i believe that both appropriate national policies and the mobilisation of civil society are needed to provide food security for all. in addition, the modification of the community programme will generate a strong cohesion element and serve as a model for the distribution of food to the most deprived. this proposal seeks to maintain full union funding for the programme. the maximum level of community financing will be maintained in the future, but in order to ensure budgetary stability, an annual ceiling of eur 500 million is provided for the eu financial contribution.
in writing. − the need to distribute food aid across the eu is driven by the increase in the number of people in need as new countries have joined, but also by the rise in food prices. every citizen of the union has the right to be guaranteed access to food. funds should therefore be allocated to adequately cover the cost of purchases on the market for intervention stock. it is the eu's responsibility to secure food resources and reduce insecurity among its citizens. investing in people's well-being is an essential component of the healthy development of each individual, contributing to the prosperity of the union. the cold wave that has hit central and south-eastern europe, including my country, romania, during this period, attests to the importance of implementing a rigorous food distribution plan. preventive measures such as the one we are discussing today can reduce the suffering of the disadvantaged and, in the long term, remove barriers to the eu's development to its full capacity. these are some of the reasons why i am in favour of the report on the distribution of food to people in need.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and i welcome the overwhelming majority of votes in favour. this programme is one of the most important social protection programmes run by the european union and the majority expressed today gives us hope that parliament, the council and the commission will find solutions during the year to continue it beyond 2013. the fact that one in thirty european citizens depends on this programme is enough to make us think about this, and action at parliamentary level should start now.
in writing. − i welcome the decision, following negotiations with the council, to continue the distribution of food to the most deprived persons for the period 2012-13. i would like to stress, however, that this positive vote on the compromise text does not at all support the member states which envisage the complete elimination of this aid by the end of 2013. on the contrary, i believe that the current economic situation shows us more than ever how important it is to continue this programme for the next period, 2014-2020.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft recommendation for the second reading on the council's first reading position with a view to adopting a regulation for the continuation of food distribution to the most deprived persons in the union. given the urgency of the situation created by the two-year deadlock in the council, we believe that any delay in the adoption of this regulation would only prolong the suffering of the most disadvantaged eu citizens who could benefit from the food distribution programme. the amended commission proposal of 3 october 2011 and the council position under examination incorporated all the substantive amendments of parliament at first reading on the maintenance of full union funding for the programme. the current level of eu funding of 100% is maintained and, in order to ensure budgetary stability, an annual ceiling of eur 500 million is foreseen. the idea of eu food was also taken up. we stress the need to continue this programme of food distribution to the most deprived persons beyond 2013 and call on the commission to come forward swiftly with a legislative proposal to this effect. in 2010, over 18 million people benefited from this programme.
in writing. − access to the radio spectrum is essential for a very wide range of activities, from telephony and broadcasting to transport and space applications. in order for european citizens, both in urban and rural areas, to benefit from all the benefits of digital technology, it is of the utmost importance to ensure broad and equitable access to the radio spectrum. better use of spectrum can also provide a boost to the european economy, as high-speed wireless services will foster competitiveness and economic development. following today's report, the 800 mhz band will be made available for electronic communications services in all eu member states by 1 january 2013 and an appropriate spectrum allocation for wireless services will be made, totalling at least 1200 mhz by 2015, thus providing the best capacity for european industries. the digital economy is the key to the future, and the lines drawn in this report will ensure economic success in the future.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the council's first reading position with a view to adopting a decision on the establishment of a multiannual programme for radio spectrum policy. the union needs a programme covering the internal market in all union policy areas involving the use of radio spectrum, such as policies on electronic communications, research, technological development, space, transport, energy and audiovisual. the policy objectives to be implemented by the member states and the commission include: ensuring sufficient availability of spectrum, maximising spectrum flexibility, increasing efficiency of spectrum use through general authorisations and spectrum flexibility, avoiding distortion of competition, avoiding harmful interference and disturbance, harmonising technical conditions, ensuring the protection of public health. this programme shall ensure the creation of a very broad-based inventory of current use of the spectrum between 400 mhz and 6 ghz in order to create a flexible and coordinated european spectrum policy. the commission shall also, in cooperation with member states, assess the appropriateness and feasibility of extending unlicensed frequency allocations for wireless access systems, including local radio networks, to allow, for example, increased use of, for example, wifi technology.
in writing. − the european dairy market has been and is characterised by a pronounced imbalance and low predictability, due primarily to unfair trading practices in the production, processing and distribution process. the main actors who suffer from this phenomenon are, on the one hand, farmers, who, as we have seen, often happen not to know the price they will receive for their milk, but also the final consumers, who do not pay the price that starts from the producer but the amount imposed by all the other factors involved in the process of processing and distribution. i believe that there is a need for the accountability of operators in the dairy chain and this can be achieved through the use of formal written contracts. i also believe in strengthening the bargaining power of producers with processing plants. last but not least, another reason why i am voting for this report is its purpose: to promote good practice and to make the market more transparent in general. because, in my view, this is the only way we can talk about the dairy sector in the eu in the future. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - i voted for the report drawn up by mr nicholson because the dairy sector is an essential component of the cap reform. • the debate is necessary in the context of the events that deeply affected this area in 2007-2009 and the obstacles present in the food supply chain. • farmers are currently at a financial disadvantage in their contractual relations with the dairy industry. • i therefore believe that the specific measures promoted by the cap reform can correct this imbalance. • it is also particularly useful to include dairy products in the scope of the quality policy. • this can help to protect and preserve traditional and regional recipes, especially those from isolated or peripheral areas. • the new measure will also support the work of small farms and local cultural diversity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the abolition of quotas for dairy products in the eu in 2015 requires an increase in the bargaining power of producers, by concluding firm written contracts to strengthen the responsibility of operators in the dairy chain, and by encouraging producers to organise. the example of switzerland, which gave up its quotas in 2009, is useful to understand the impact of the new system and to anticipate its negative effects. the decline in demand and the maintenance of stable production have led to a collapse in prices on the european milk market in recent years. the increase in the price of raw materials in recent years has led to higher feed costs and production costs, including energy. i therefore believe that, in these circumstances, there is a need to increase the bargaining power of producers with processing units, in order to distribute added value more equitably along the supply chain. this would ensure a rational development of production and help to maintain fair living conditions for farmers in the dairy sector.
in writing. − with the report voted by parliament today, milk producers will have more bargaining power to get fair prices for raw milk, which will help them prepare for milk quotas in 2015. the current provisions will allow farmers' organisations to negotiate raw milk prices themselves without breaching competition law. i supported this report because, through its amendments, the european parliament requested the commission to prepare two reports assessing the situation of milk producers in less-favoured areas, one by july 2014 and the other by the end of 2018.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. the measures proposed are certainly useful, but we must admit that they are not sufficient. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's macro-financial assistance to the countries of central and eastern europe, in particular the countries of the former soviet union, the former soviet union and the former soviet union. at the same time, the eu must continue and implement parliament's efforts to ensure a balance along the entire food supply chain, i.e. between producers, distributors, processors and traders, for the benefit of european consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 on contractual relations in the milk and milk products sector. between 2007 and 2009 there were significant developments in the milk and milk products sector. a series of extreme weather conditions caused a significant decrease in supply, which led to a rapid and considerable increase in prices. subsequently, the financial and economic crisis adversely affected eu dairy producers and accentuated price volatility. i believe that the use of written contracts which comply with certain formal conditions, contain basic elements and are concluded before delivery could increase awareness and strengthen the responsibility of operators in the dairy chain to take better account of market signals, improve the allocation of prices, adapt supply to demand and help to avoid unfair trading practices. in order to ensure a stable future for the dairy sector after the abolition of quotas in 2015, the bargaining power of producers with processing units should be increased, which would lead to a more equitable distribution of added value along the supply chain.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it amends appropriately the rules of procedure of the european parliament on own-initiative reports. • without prejudice to the relevance of such reports and the useful debate on them, article 48 (2) in its amended form will allow for a greater concentration of the european parliament's work on the legislative process. • this is necessary, also in view of the new tasks and powers conferred on parliament by the treaty of lisbon. • at the same time, a clearer definition of the character of each own-initiative report from the authorisation stage will generate greater efficiency in the process of drafting, amending and adopting the text. the role of the specialised committees as the central framework for negotiations with a view to finding a compromise will thus be reaffirmed. • last but not least, i would stress the usefulness of clarifying the criteria for determining the strategic nature of an own-initiative report. they are designed to ensure the positive effects of this amendment to the regulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of rule 48 (2) of parliament's rules of procedure on own-initiative reports, as i believe that the system applicable to this type of report needs to be improved, particularly at the plenary stage. motions for resolutions contained in own-initiative reports shall be dealt with by parliament in accordance with the procedure for the presentation of a summary. amendments to them shall be admissible for consideration in the plenary only if they have been tabled by the rapporteur to take account of new information or have been tabled by at least one tenth of the members. at the same time, political groups may table motions for resolutions to replace them, in accordance with rule 157 (4) on the admissibility of amendments. a political group or at least 40 members may table a motion for a resolution to replace a non-legislative motion for a resolution contained in a committee report, but without exceeding the length of the resolution of the committee responsible. the proposal shall be submitted without amendments for approval by parliament by a single vote. these provisions shall not apply where the subject of the report requires a priority debate in plenary, where the report is drawn up on the basis of the right of initiative or where the report has been designated as a strategic report.
in writing. − i support this report because stability bonds can be an additional means of stimulating compliance with the stability and growth pact, especially in the context of the new rules on the effective application of budgetary surveillance in the euro area. as the issuer of the second international currency, the euro area has a key role to play in maintaining the stability of the international monetary system, as well as a strategic interest in realising its full potential so that the euro can become a global reserve currency. but stability bonds can play an important role in the internal implementation and overall assertiveness of the euro area's monetary policy only if there is a sustainable fiscal framework based on growth, and not in the fragile context of the past two years, marked by speculative attacks, instability and poor economic governance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the feasibility of introducing stability bonds because i believe that it is absolutely necessary to put in place a euro-bond system in order to ensure the stability of the single currency, to increase liquidity and to reduce the borrowing costs currently faced by the member states of the union. i therefore welcome the european executive's move to launch the green paper on this subject and look forward to a roadmap on the next steps for the launch of the new bonds.
in writing. − social policy and employment are the basic responsibility of the member states. in line with the principle of subsidiarity, the european institutions deal with those areas where eu solutions ensure policy harmonisation. thus, issues relating to financing, unemployment and social issues are of common interest to all member states. so far, the eu has only set minimum standards and rights, on the basis of which member states adopt laws and regulations that go beyond european social policy. the crisis has had dramatic consequences, especially for young people looking for stable employment. they face an unemployment rate of over 20% and, in some member states, even over 40%. between 2008 and 2010, the number of young unemployed in the eu increased by one million. the rate of young people aged 15-24 who are not in employment and who are not in any education or training programme increased by 2 per cent during the same period. for these reasons, i believe that finding solutions must be a priority for the european union, otherwise this generation of young people will be a lost generation.
in writing. - the economic and financial crisis that has been affecting europe for some time, and in particular the austerity measures taken in some member states, must not lead to a decline in social protection standards and health and safety standards. these measures do not in any way justify the existence of precarious forms of work among young people, such as temporary or part-time work and unpaid traineeships. i believe that such practices should be reduced, because young people, especially those who have not completed a full cycle of vocational training, should be encouraged to participate in training programmes appropriate to their individual abilities, programmes that promote entrepreneurship, which can ensure the transition from education to working life. by taking such measures, europe can avoid the loss of potential of the young generation and reduce the skills gap in the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it is essential, now more than ever, that the european parliament gives itself an instrument to make its voice heard on the issue of europe 2020 strategy implementation, in particular given the imminent spring european council on 1-2 march. despite the fact that the economic and sovereign debt crisis has clearly showed that austerity measures are not sufficient to overcome such a dramatic situation – even creating the conditions for a recession of the weaker euro area countries (the greek case is more than emblematic) – the commission’s approach, as expressed in the annual growth survey, again identifies priorities that are not contributing to achieving the eu2020 goals in a balanced way. the motion we have adopted is a comprehensive and well-elaborated document that will clearly define the role of parliament in the future negotiations with the council and the commission. i think the time has come to break down the dogmatic approach, defining job-creation and social inclusion policies as opposed to fiscal stability. the economic crisis will lead to a deeper and more dangerous social crisis if europe does not take action in the fields of growth, job creation and social inclusion.
in writing. − as unemployment has now reached alarming levels at eu level, a european-wide approach is needed to define an employment strategy. i voted for a package of three reports which help to define a coherent position of the parliament on this structural problem facing the member states. the emphasis was on fiscal consolidation, based on social non-discrimination and poverty reduction. job creation was another point in our calls, a move that can only be achieved if investment and tax reform are tackled in a committed and responsible way. concrete solutions and implementation will be the responsibility of the european commission and the member states, which are forced by current conditions to act in a coordinated manner.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the employment and social issues report in the annual growth survey 2012, which shows us how strong the impact of the economic crisis is at eu level and in terms of employment. the economic crisis has exacerbated social problems and had dramatic consequences, especially among young people, who are the most affected by unemployment. in order to reduce economic imbalances and achieve sustainable economic growth, it is vital that member states encourage investment for job creation. member states should therefore direct their policies towards the implementation of appropriate fiscal measures to support smes as growth generators. as regards the structural funds, it is useful and necessary to use them to support smes and combat unemployment effectively. member states should therefore step up their efforts to use the structural funds, with priority for combating poverty and unemployment. austerity measures are necessary, but they must be backed up by compensatory measures, stimulating investment and job creation.
in writing. − i would first like to congratulate the cornelissen report for its focus on growth-enhancing measures as a long-term solution to address the current economic challenges. i welcome the promotion of active inclusion policies which create sustainable job creation and job quality, and the need to coordinate budgetary growth with employment measures so as to generate long-term economic recovery. i also want to emphasize the importance of investment in effective education and training as a way to tackle skills mismatches, alongside further integration of young people, women, migrants and older people into the labour market. lastly, i believe that, through the reinforced social dimension in this report, the new annual growth survey can maximise the europe 2020 goals and add value to the european semester.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on employment and social issues in the annual growth survey 2012. during the current economic and financial crisis, the union has lost 6 million jobs and the economic recovery measures of the last two years have led to the creation of only 1,5 million jobs by mid-2011. unemployment rates range from 4.1% in austria to 22.8% in spain, while the share of long-term unemployed is over 40%. youth unemployment is particularly alarming, with more than 5 million young europeans (representing 20% of the young labour force) out of work. i voted to support sustainable job creation through investment and tax reform, to improve the quality of jobs and conditions for increased participation in the labour market, to combat youth unemployment, to combat poverty and social exclusion and to strengthen democratic legitimacy, accountability and accountability. i stress the importance of safeguarding the european social model. economic and social development and the eu's competitiveness require a skilled workforce. the union and the member states must therefore invest in education and health systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr gauzès' report because the eu needs viable solutions to ensure the sustainable success of the european economy. • the annual growth review for 2012 marks the start of the european semester this year. • the main priority must be to implement the measures already agreed. • there is a need to ensure the coherence of economic policy instruments. • support the creation of bonds to finance infrastructure projects. • they will promote sustainable economic growth and job creation. • i would point out that there are currently 23 million unemployed in the eu, of which 22.7% are young people. • i believe it is essential to use european funds to support the creation of smes, especially by young people. • in romania, the state has to spend about 0.9% of gdp on supporting young unemployed people.
in writing. − unfortunately, the annual growth analysis does not provide the solutions needed to restore confidence in european economies and financial markets. we need to take urgent action to support employment and to achieve the eu 2020 targets. we also need to take into account the interdependence of member states' economies and budgetary policies and the domino effects that may occur in some cases. the growth prospects of the member states are highly dependent on measures to combat the crisis. i therefore believe that all eu countries must take urgent action to correct excessive deficits and reduce sovereign debt to an acceptable level. to restore investor confidence, we need a reform of the financial sector's regulatory and supervisory framework. banks should not unduly restrict lending to the real economy and regulatory actions should lay the foundations for increasing their lending capacity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the contribution to the 2012 annual growth analysis. the commission's annual growth analysis for 2012 is a good basis for this year's european semester, but as the resolution underlines, solutions specifically addressing the current sovereign debt and financial crisis must be accompanied by medium- and long-term measures to boost growth and a reshaping of the overall economic framework in order to improve the competitiveness of the european economy. uncertainty about the outlook for the european economy and concerns about the euro area debt crisis have weakened confidence among european households and businesses, as well as in financial markets. high energy prices and persistent difficulties in accessing finance are also adversely affecting the recovery process. member states' and the eu's efforts need to focus on the following priorities: pursuing growth-friendly differentiated fiscal consolidation while ensuring economic recovery and job creation, securing the long-term financing of the real economy, promoting sustainable growth through increased competitiveness and investment, addressing unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, and modernising european public administration and services of general interest.
the situation in syria is deteriorating by the day, with real massacres taking place in cities where the popular revolt against the regime in damascus has taken radical forms. women, children, innocent people are dying, over 7,000 recorded victims in the last year... this situation, as has been said here, cannot continue and i hope that today the un general assembly will condemn the bloody reprisals in syria, despite the fact that russia and china have opted for vetoes in the security council. i welcome the position of the arab league and, as of yesterday, of the organisation of islamic cooperation, to put pressure on the assad regime to accept a peaceful solution to this conflict. the syrian regime must pave the way for a democratic solution to the crisis and the european union must find firm solutions, including additional sanctions, to stop the intolerable repression of the syrian people.
mr president, in syria civilians continue to die. this monday the un high commissioner for human rights said that the situation in homs was deplorable. more than 300 people are estimated to have lost their lives since the beginning of february. the un human rights council cannot keep track of their numbers. children are being kidnapped, tortured and killed. these are the actions of a government which has lost its legitimacy in front of its own people and in front of the international community. the eu has imposed an asset freeze and visa ban on 108 individuals and an asset freeze on 38 entities. this stance must be intensified. we should cut the money supply through further sanctions on the sales of gold and precious gems. at the same time we must reach out to the syrian people and work with humanitarian organisations to develop humanitarian corridors to help the people. we must increase this momentum and put more pressure on the assad regime to stop the violence, step down and ensure a peaceful transition to democracy.
mr president, the arab spring generally – and syria in particular – has caused splits in the security council. the arab league, the eu and the us oppose the current regime, which is killing its own people, while others support it for – in my opinion – different reasons. some of its supporters are concerned by the legitimacy of regime change through foreign intervention, while in russia’s case there are also crucial strategic motivations. if the current syrian regime falls, russia will not only lose a strategic partner which allows it to continue to be part of the middle east equation, but also a naval bridgehead in the region and an important customer for its arms exports, possibly even a component in its complex relations with iran. however, with the syrian people, the arab league and most of the international community absolutely opposed to the current syrian regime, those who continue to support it will find themselves beyond the tipping point at which the losses outweigh the gains.
i welcome the positive role played by the union in the reform of the human rights council. i hope that europe will continue to make a positive contribution to the geneva debates, including when country reports are discussed. i ask the high representative to systematically include the subject of human rights in the dialogue with other states. only then will the union's positions be widely supported. i also stress the negative effects of frozen conflicts on respect for human rights. the situation in transnistria is telling. i would like to know how to explain the high representative's lack of reaction when it comes to the tragic death of moldovan citizen vadim pisari. i remind you that he was killed on january 1st at a checkpoint in the separatist region of transnistria by a russian peacekeeper.
president of the council. - mr president, i have to say something. first of all, thank you again for an interesting debate. in the european union we believe that all that concerns human rights is of vital importance in moving the world forward and also in ensuring that these are not rights that are formed in individual situations but rights that are universal and that all countries commit themselves to and respect. we're not there yet, but that's what we're pushing for. i would like to stress that we in the council are also very concerned about this. we have an informal meeting of foreign ministers in march, a gymnich meeting, where one of the two subjects we will discuss is human rights, with a view to taking a decision on behalf of the european union again in june. when we have such a high profile as we have on human rights, it is also important that we, so to speak, sweep the floor before the sheep die. i mean, we keep our own path clean. this also means that we must, of course, constantly bring up these issues at bilateral meetings with third countries. and it is important, as several speakers have also pointed out, that we see progress in terms of concrete results as the world moves forward. i should now like to make a few comments on some of the countries mentioned. it is true - as we also discussed in the previous paragraph - that the human rights situation looks very bad in a country like syria. it is also true that there is no doubt in libya's case that the developments of recent times mean that libya is making progress in human rights. burma was also mentioned from several angles. it seems that after a long period of dictatorship and lack of freedom for the people, burma is once again moving forward. this is manifested in the release of prisoners, in the form of elections, of supplementary elections, in the form of respect for minorities. it is important to reiterate that the very essence of human rights is that they are fundamental principles which apply to all people. and it's our duty to go out and fight for them to actually apply to all people. it is democracy, it is the rule of law, it is human rights, it is the rights of minorities, whether ethnic, sexual or religious. it is the fundamental right of the people to determine their own future. finally, i would like to say that i understand the criticism and i understand that catherine ashton is wanted at all meetings. (now you've got the second best thing today.) but her absence is a sign that there really is a lot to do. i am quite convinced, however, that the criticism of catherine ashton would be even greater if she were absent from the next foreign ministers' meeting, where syria is likely to be the main topic, or from the general affairs council, where kosovo and serbia will be the main topic. that's why i think, in a way, catherine ashton has prioritized right. with those remarks, i would like to thank you for the debate. keep the human rights banner high. it is an important european characteristic.
in writing. the human rights situation has deteriorated in recent years. under the impact of the economic crisis and the threat of terrorism, the exercise of certain fundamental freedoms has been restricted. even when changes like the arab spring have offered the prospect of improvement, there are still difficulties in actually changing the condition of citizens. it is for this reason that i believe we need a more applied instrument to support the democratic transition in the southern mediterranean, to create states of law. as regards the most deprived, women and children are unfortunately still the main victims. their discrimination - including economic - is increasingly evident and we need to focus more on protecting them. i believe that much more effective cooperation is needed between the european union, the un and other international bodies, so that human rights violations are no longer favored by the impunity that the perpetrators still enjoy.
in the context of the economic constraints faced by member states, compliance with budgetary discipline is essential. institutions must demonstrate responsibility and budgetary austerity. at present, administrative expenditure by the institutions represents about 5.8% of the total union budget. overlaps and inefficiencies between budget lines should be identified in order to achieve further savings. the potential for savings after the implementation of the knowledge management system should also be considered. i draw attention to the principles of good management referred to in article 27 of the financial regulation. in this connection, i believe that the budgets of the institutions must clearly reflect the principles of economy, efficiency and effectiveness.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, thank you, mrs mazzoni, for giving me the opportunity to raise the question of the copyright exception for the benefit of the visually impaired and the international discussions currently taking place. as you know, the european union is committed to advancing the rights of disabled people, and i have personally discussed this with all the organizations concerned with the blind, mrs mazzoni. the full participation of disabled people in social, cultural and economic life must be a real reality in our modern democratic societies. the european commission has committed itself to this, in particular - as you recalled - with the 2010-2020 strategy for people with disabilities. we support the full, complete and effective recognition of the rights of these disabled persons, as recognised in particular by the united nations convention on the rights of persons with disabilities and the charter of fundamental rights. this is the view which we also defend in the discussions currently taking place in the world intellectual property organization on the rights of the visually impaired to which your question refers. i would like to clarify and clarify things, ladies and gentlemen. part of the debate concerns the need and usefulness of a binding international legal instrument on exceptions to copyright for the benefit of visually impaired persons. in other words, does the objective which you and i are pursuing require, does it require, yes or no, an international treaty? regardless of the course of this debate, we must also be pragmatic, focusing on a more concrete and urgent issue. is the text currently on the table, in its economy and in its content, able to provide a practical, credible and effective solution to the difficulties faced by the visually impaired? as far as the european union and the law currently in force are concerned, all member states have introduced exceptions for the benefit of visually impaired persons, in accordance with the charter of fundamental rights and in accordance with the directive on copyright in the information society. in addition, concrete measures are being taken to encourage cooperation at eu level between the beneficiaries and organisations representing visually impaired people. beyond an exception, of course, there is also a need for effective cooperation between creators and organizations of visually impaired people to make books accessible as quickly as possible in formats best suited to those who need them. the need for books in accessible formats for the visually impaired is real and urgent. we must therefore ensure that the main focus of the discussions is on identifying the best response in terms of concrete, practical, effective and rapid response. ladies and gentlemen, these substantive discussions must be a prerequisite and enable us, once a solid common position has emerged among the parties concerned, to determine the legal nature of the instrument to be put in place. is that a treaty? is that a recommendation? i am personally open to either of these two positions. the commission and the european union are engaged in constructive discussions. we have helped to move the debate forward by proposing, with the support of other states, a single text to replace the four previous texts. this text was hailed as a major breakthrough, including by the world blind union. but i think we need to go further into its material content. at the last wipo meeting, the european union and its member states called for open discussions on the substance of the text, which needs to be improved rapidly. our position on the improvements to be made has been communicated in writing and orally to our partners and interested parties in a transparent manner. we are therefore encouraging our partners and all parties to the debate to get to the heart of the matter as quickly as possible. as this is a subject which interests me, mrs mazzoni, ladies and gentlemen, and on which i have personally engaged with the associations of the visually impaired, i intend to contact and dialogue very quickly with all the governments of the european union in order to move more quickly and more precisely towards a concrete solution and to resolve this problem in the sense in which your question calls it.
on behalf of the epp group. i would like to start by welcoming the initiative of my colleague, erminia mazzoni, to put this oral question. it is estimated that there are some 30 million visually impaired people in europe. additional measures are needed to ensure that they do not suffer from additional deprivation, such as access to books. they lead to reduced opportunities for education, training and subsequent integration into the labour market. for example, statistics show that today less than 25 percent of blind people are employed. technological developments provide new opportunities to increase the number of books accessible to the visually impaired. an important element is the diversification of formats: audio or electronic books are now available in addition to braille publications. what we lack is a european legislative framework to facilitate their emergence and dissemination. i call on the commission and the council to redouble their efforts to this end, including by supporting a specific exception to copyright. i also appreciate the need to encourage the exchange of experience and good practice between member states. in this context, i would mention that in romania public libraries have a legal obligation to set up book sections in accessible formats for the blind. finally, i would like to commend the generosity of authors and publishers who are willing to offer the rights to publish in a medium adapted to these people.
at eu-27 level, less than 5% of published books are accessible to blind and visually impaired people. such persons shall have access to published books or printed materials in braille, audio or electronic formats. blind people do not have proper access to braille books, bookstores, or libraries. libraries must be equipped with terminals for blind persons, enabling them to have appropriate access to literary works in electronic format. most of these people are unemployed and therefore do not have adequate income. therefore, the affordability of literary works in braille, electronic or audio formats is of utmost importance. i support the creation of an online european catalogue of works available in accessible formats. i support a binding copyright treaty for books and printed materials in electronic format for the visually impaired.
deposit insurance is an indispensable element of the system of supervision of credit institutions. the system will allow for the compensation of depositors up to a certain ceiling, which is fixed at eur 100 000. depositors are exempted from participation in long insolvency proceedings. today, the systems in the union provide different levels of protection for deposits and impose unequal financial obligations on banks. it is important that the deposit guarantee scheme ensures financial stability for customers. therefore, there is a need for depositors to be informed about both secured and unsecured financial products. i support ex-ante funding of deposit guarantee schemes and differentiated contributions. i stress that these systems must be monitored at all times. it is essential to carry out stress simulations for the systems used.
the approximately 40 deposit guarantee schemes in the union provide different levels of deposit protection for different groups of depositors, impose different financial obligations on banks, and limit the benefits of the internal market. the harmonised minimum level of collateral of eur 100000 provided for in this directive provides protection for a large proportion of deposits, both in the interests of consumer protection and the stability of the financial system. it is important that all depositors benefit from the same level of protection, regardless of whether the member state's currency is the euro or not. in the event of the closure of an insolvent credit institution, depositors at any branch located in a member state other than that in which the credit institution has its head office should be protected by the same guarantee scheme as other depositors at that institution.
this debate is welcome, especially since we have also discussed the issue of respect for human rights today. i believe that the question of data transfers to third countries should be approached in a balanced way. the transfer of information is necessary to combat terrorism. at the same time, a minimum threshold of the right to privacy must be respected, by applying the principle of proportionality. i recall the debate triggered by the negotiation of the eu-us pnr agreement. the final agreement contains clauses to ensure this balance. for example, information may be communicated only for the purpose of fighting serious crime and only for certain operations. the guarantees in the treaty provide for greater transparency for citizens and sensitive information is protected by strict conditions of use.
i shall refer in the context of this debate to the passenger name record. the union has signed or is renegotiating bilateral passenger name record agreements with the united states of america, canada and australia. the parliament is now examining the proposal for a pnr directive, which will introduce a common treatment for the passenger name record throughout the eu. however, third countries have different data protection systems than the european union. in the tran committee, i asked that the transfer of pnr data to third countries should only take place if there are adequate safeguards in place for the protection of personal data, and that the storage, processing and analysis of pnr data of passengers on international flights should only take place within the european union, so that the applicable legislation would be european legislation on the protection of personal data. in the case of pnr, i ask the commission: how does it guarantee to european citizens that the transmission and processing of personal data is protected by european union law?
the events in the european union's southern neighbourhood have led to a rethinking of political and trade relations with the mediterranean states. a first step in this direction was the realisation that the principle of conditionality of the implementation of democratic reforms, a pillar of the european neighbourhood policy, was more a concept than a real incentive for their implementation. we now have a duty to support the democratic aspirations of the citizens of these countries. greater economic and trade integration can help to achieve this. i therefore consider it necessary to conclude the single regional convention on pan-mediterranean preferential rules of origin. i share the rapporteur's conviction that this will facilitate trade between these developing countries, thus contributing to poverty reduction as well as economic growth and diversification. the transition from the euro-mediterranean system of cumulation of origin, comprising over 100 bilateral protocols, to a single regional instrument will reduce the complexity of current trade relations. it should also be mentioned that this change does not only concern the southern neighbourhood countries, but also the western balkan countries or the european free trade association. such countries with fragile economies, such as albania, bosnia and herzegovina, serbia or montenegro, can benefit from an integrated system of rules of origin.
member of the commission. - mr president, mr glante's question is important in relation to the european earth monitoring programme (gmes), which is one of the flagship programmes of the european union's space policy as part of our europe 2020 strategy. i cannot mention all the essential information gmes can provide for the environment, the protection of biodiversity, the state of the oceans, the understanding of the drivers of climate change, the response to natural disasters, prevention or development policy. this information is needed by each public authority in the member states, and sometimes by the regions, to implement all these policies of repair, prevention or environmental protection. gmes has proven its effectiveness. i think of that major disaster that hit the island of haiti in january 2010. our union, thanks to gmes, has provided all international actors and emergency services working on the ground with reference maps of the damage caused, based on satellite images. i say this because i had the opportunity to work, before i became commissioner again, on the subject of civil protection and on the idea, which my colleague kristalina georgieva supports, of a european organisation for a better civil protection response. in this proposal, i myself, four years ago, imagined that we could rely on satellite services to provide a more effective response of prevention, of repair, as we were able to do during the major disaster in haiti. in addition, gmes data are also used for simulation of oil spill spreading, for example from the costa concordia during this recent disaster. in budgetary terms, ladies and gentlemen, what are we talking about? since 1998, the overall funding for gmes up to 2013 by the union and esa has amounted to over €3.2 billion for the design and initial implementation of services and infrastructure. after 2013, the continuity of this programme, which will include the deployment of the observation infrastructure, the operation of the services and their maintenance, will require a budget of around €5.8 billion for the period 2014-2020. in a recent euroconsult study on satellite earth observation, we noted that worldwide revenues of €2.5 billion were generated in 2010 from data sales services, which means that these revenues are three times as large as 10 years ago. it is therefore, ladies and gentlemen, a rapidly expanding market. at the same time, a cost-benefit study carried out for the commission considers that the gmes programme should generate benefits at least four times higher than the investment costs for the period up to 2030. gmes has not experienced delays or cost overruns in the past and is not likely to experience any in the future, as it is based on a structure which allows, if necessary, the content of the objectives of the different components to be re-prioritized to keep within the limits of the expected costs. the june 2011 communication on the budget for europe 2020 excluded gmes from the multiannual financial framework. according to the financial regulation, a legal act, i.e. in this case a regulation, is no longer necessary, since there is no longer a financial commitment. the communication to the european parliament and the council, adopted in november 2011, therefore seemed the most appropriate way to open a debate with the other institutions on how to ensure the long-term success of gmes. the annex to this communication contains the elements that may be included in an international agreement between member states to replace the regulation which expires at the end of 2013. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. the commission considered that the costs of gmes could not be borne by the union budget alone, given the limits imposed on it. this is a way of ensuring the continuity of the programme while allowing the union to continue to fully meet its international commitments. it must be acknowledged that the structure of the union budget makes it difficult to finance large-scale programmes such as gmes, whose duration of implementation is much longer than that of the financial framework. as the commission reiterated in its communication of 30 november, it considers that it is particularly committed to the success of gmes. if, as proposed, a gmes fund is established by the member states, then the commission will present, in legal form, a proposal for its implementation. the timetable therefore depends on the establishment of the financing fund by the member states in the council. discussions on gmes are also taking place in the council at this very moment and in this context there is an exchange of views on this subject at the competitiveness council on 21 february. gmes will provide information that will help to manage issues ranging from climate change to border surveillance, as i have just mentioned. that is why i think it is an important programme which we must, in one way or another, continue to support together with the member states.
regulation no 911/2010 on the european earth monitoring programme (gmes) and its initial exploitation for the period 2011-2013 expires in 2013 and unfortunately the commission has not come forward with a new proposal for a regulation. gmes has enormous potential for growth and job creation through the development of innovative services. gmes provides crucial information for managing the environment sustainably, improving the protection of biodiversity, monitoring and forecasting the state of the oceans and the composition of the atmosphere, understanding the drivers and effects of climate change, addressing natural and man-made disasters, supporting development policies and enhancing the security of european citizens. the gmes services component shall provide access to information in support of the following areas: the commission shall be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 26 to supplement this regulation by laying down detailed rules for the application of this regulation. gmes applications and services include: monitoring air quality from space, monitoring the growth of toxic algae, preparing for disaster response based on space data, increasing the safety of shipping in the arctic, quantifying the solar energy received by the earth, satellite tracking of pirate ships, monitoring volcanic eruptions and their effects on air transport. on 9 february, the european space agency signed contracts for the launch of two new satellites in 2013: sentinel 2 and sentinel 3 from the gmes constellation of five satellites. we reiterate the request made by parliament to the commission in its resolution of 19 january 2012 on a space strategy of the european union at the service of the citizen and we call on the commission to finalise the legislative framework, to clarify the approach to effective governance. we call on the commission to include gmes in the multiannual financial framework for 2014-2020. we would point out that the absence of a long-term financial plan to support the economy could render the investments made to date useless.
question under the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mrs foster if she thinks that if the gmes programme is not fully funded from the eu budget, this could mean that some member states which, for example, do not voluntarily participate in gmes funding but which could be affected by natural disasters, will not be able to access the data collected and provided by gmes? i'd like mrs. foster to answer that question.
as commissioner barnier said, the benefits of implementing the gmes programme can go far beyond the costs of investment, growth and jobs. the commission proposes to finance gmes from 2013 outside the union budget, from a fund made up of the financial contributions of the 27 member states, in proportion to their gross domestic product. this funding is detrimental to the project. the community approach is essential as it will allow synergies with the management of the galileo programme. at international level, the union loses credibility with international space industry players by removing the community dimension. gmes should continue to be financed from the union budget in order to ensure its sustainable development and operation in the medium and long term. the council's message in january is very clear: gmes should be financed under the mff so that it benefits from a credible and stable financial plan that guarantees that gmes services will have the same level of accessibility in each member state. i call on the commission not to jeopardise the independence of the union and the development of space technologies and to come forward as soon as possible with a legislative proposal on the long-term operability of gmes. the gmes programme should be implemented in a manner consistent with union policies. the commission should produce a long-term plan for legislative changes to promote and enforce the use of both gmes and galileo services. this plan would be a very valuable indication for research and for the industrial environment in preparing technologies and products to facilitate the use of these services.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure. i would like to ask mr prodi if he is aware that the amount of solar energy received by the earth has been more accurately quantified by gmes? gmes has shown that desert areas receive more solar energy in a day than all the energy consumed by mankind in a year. this represents a huge potential, especially in the context of energy becoming a scarce resource. the use of this energy could benefit the african continent in the first place. i would like mr prodi to answer that question.
i would like to welcome the initiative of my colleague, mr glante, to put this oral question. i believe that funding for the european earth monitoring programme is needed beyond 2013. in this context, i would like to highlight the involvement of the european space agency in its development. the safer emergency component ensures that reference maps are produced within six hours of the initial call. for my country, this mechanism has proved particularly useful in many situations. i'll give you just a few examples: in june 2010, the romanian authorities were able to obtain a complete map of the flood-affected areas thanks to this programme. in november 2011, the same mechanism was used to identify fire outbreaks near sibiu. the operation was carried out with the support of the romanian space agency.
to meet the growing global challenges, europe needs its own well-coordinated and reliable earth observation system. once operational, gmes will limit the impact of natural disasters such as those in chile and/or haiti. gmes cannot prevent these disasters, but it will make rescue operations more efficient, as gmes imagery can identify problem areas. in the case of romania, which is often affected by floods, the destroyed infrastructure can be located and the population can be evacuated and helped effectively through this system. according to a cost-benefit analysis, the gmes programme is expected to generate benefits at least twice the cost of investment by 2020 and four times the cost by 2030. this represents a huge potential for growth and job creation through the development of innovative services and commercial applications in the downstream sector. i therefore believe that this programme deserves further support under the financial programme.
i would like to propose that the first part of paragraph 29 be deleted: 'condemns the recent statement by the japanese minister of justice on a possible resumption of the use of the death penalty' 'the reason is simple: in the course of this afternoon we will vote on a special resolution devoted to this issue, the resolution agreed by all the political groups is much more nuanced than this phrase.
i voted for this resolution, which i consider important because it is an early warning signal about the democratic lapses in europe and in hungary. i believe that the current crisis can only be solved by a cohesion around the values that have united us. democratic standards, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, individual freedom and constitutional rules are vital to the future of europe. this resolution saves europe, which can no longer be accused of using double standards in human rights policy, of behaving in a certain way with third countries, but is quite permissive with regard to the member states. i believe that any departure from the constitutional and democratic order, from the european treaties and from individual freedoms must be punished, and i believe that hungary understands that this parliament is the parliament which remains the guardian of these values.
i think this resolution is just as important to underline the drive to promote democracy and the need for free elections, which the european union is constantly doing. russia, as a privileged partner of the european union, must meet certain standards to sustain trust in this partnership and make it viable. unfortunately, what is happening in moscow and not only - ordinary citizens demonstrating in large numbers in the streets, but also organizations that are involved in the protection and defense of human rights - proves that we are still dealing with a totalitarian temptation, which is derailing and which is not able to serve its own citizens, but only the interests of some political structures. the fact that some candidates have not been allowed to run, the fact that at the moment the way the electoral commission works, the way the campaign is run, is not fair, proves to us that russia is far from meeting these standards.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis has affected not only the political and institutional arrangements of the member states but also ordinary citizens. as the closure of several banks has amply demonstrated, the stability of the deposit and credit system is essential to the success of the european economy. citizens of the member states have had to be compensated practically from public funds for the failure of the banking institutions responsible for managing deposits. in these circumstances, the establishment of a european deposit guarantee scheme makes a significant contribution to the effective and real-time protection of the savings of european citizens. the proposal also provides for the introduction of safeguards to prevent the failure of banking institutions by providing real-time warning to national and european authorities of the systemic risks involved. i support the adoption by the european parliament of this measure, which also complements the directive previously adopted by the council and the european parliament on raising the deposit ceiling guaranteed by public authorities and reducing the time taken to compensate depositors. at the same time, i believe that by adopting this proposal, a decisive step is being taken towards the creation of a genuine single market in banking services.
in writing. − regardless of whether a bank's financial situation is sound or precarious, it is impossible for it to have sufficient liquidity to repay all or part of its loans to the public in the event of massive withdrawals. for this reason, banking institutions risk facing the phenomenon of bank run, where depositors consider that their deposits are not safe and attempt to withdraw them at the same time. national deposit guarantee schemes in the eu are particularly important for our citizens and provide added confidence for bank deposit-taking. european guarantee schemes compensate depositors in the event of default up to a certain guarantee ceiling. the amount of the ceiling was first raised from eur 20 000 to eur 50 000 and from 2011 to eur 100 0000 per depositor. this directive applies to all credit institutions and membership of a deposit guarantee scheme becomes compulsory. in this way, we will have the certainty that depositors can redeem their claims at any time and that all systems are sufficiently funded. a high level of protection enhances the confidence of depositors and thus avoids the simultaneous withdrawal of funds by many depositors for fear of losing their money.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament's legislative resolution of 16 february 2012 on the proposal for a directive on deposit-guarantee schemes (reform), as the directive is an essential instrument for the completion of the internal market from the point of view of the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide financial services in the field of credit institutions, while enhancing the stability of the banking system and the protection of depositors. national deposit guarantee schemes in the eu compensate depositors in the event of a credit institution's failure to meet its obligations up to the coverage ceiling which, as from 1 january 2011, is eur 100 0000 per depositor. in order for deposit guarantee schemes to have a stabilising effect in times of financial crisis, it is necessary to ensure sufficient ex ante funding of deposit guarantee schemes throughout europe. depositors must be better informed than they are at present about the operation of deposit guarantee schemes and, in the event of a credit institution's failure to meet its payment obligations, they must be compensated swiftly. the formulation of common requirements for deposit guarantee schemes allows member states maximum flexibility in the configuration of such schemes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the union needs to maintain the biomass of western black stavrid at a level that ensures its sustainable exploitation. the western stock is the most important stock of blacktail in union waters. i would point out that the information of a biological nature is not sufficient to assess the stock fully. in this respect, the cod abundance index can be used as a biological indicator for the evolution of the stock size. at the same time, proper management of the allowable catches is necessary. the application of effective control rules is essential. it is appropriate to ensure that the management plan for the western black sea stocks is periodically reviewed. i would stress that long-term management plans are fundamental to the conservation of fish stocks.
in writing. − i voted for parliament's resolution on the contribution of the common fisheries policy to the production of public goods, as the european fisheries sector contributes to the social development of the eu by creating over 350 000 jobs both directly and indirectly. the european fisheries sector also contributes to the growth of the european economy, supplying 6.4 million tonnes of fish annually and generating €34.2 billion in annual revenues. given that social, economic and environmental sustainability are important objectives of the common fisheries policy, i would stress that the main priority of this policy should be to establish a sustainable fisheries sector that ensures that future generations can continue to enjoy the benefits of fishing. the reform of the common fisheries policy alongside other key eu initiatives in the maritime sector contributes to the eu's green economy objectives, as well as to job creation and poverty eradication. i voted for paragraph 23 which calls on the commission to find a legal solution to allow fishermen to develop other sources of income from the wide range of 'fishing-related activities' without incurring financial penalties.
in writing. − we cannot continue to ask third countries to impose democratic standards that those already part of the european union do not respect. hungary continues to show democratic lapses and i think it is the duty of the european parliament to punish these lapses. the discussion of the situation in hungary in the european parliament was necessary to protect eu laws and values and i hope that prime minister viktor orban will take seriously the recommendations made by the ep.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european parliament has a duty to ensure that hungary respects the acquis communautaire and democratic principles as laid down in the eu treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights. several issues related to the new constitution, the press law, the central bank law, the independence of the judiciary or the electoral law have been identified by both the european parliament and the commission and other international bodies, and the response of the hungarian authorities has not been satisfactory so far. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must therefore monitor more closely the respect for european law and democratic principles by carrying out an in-depth analysis covering all the issues identified in this resolution. at the same time, the libe commission will ensure that the hungarian authorities comply with the recommendations of the commission and the european parliament.
in writing. − i voted for parliament's resolution of 16 february 2012 on the recent political developments in hungary, as member states and the eu have a duty to ensure that the legislative processes and content of member states' legislation are in line with and do not contravene eu law, principles and values. hungary adopted a new constitution on 18 april 2011, some of its provisions being criticised in the european parliament resolution of 5 july 2011. parliament then asked the european commission to carry out an in-depth assessment and analysis of the new constitution and the cardinal laws established therein, with a view to verifying their conformity with the acquis communautaire and the eu charter of fundamental rights. on 17 january 2012, the commission initiated an action against hungary on the following issues: the independence of the central bank of hungary, the lowering of the mandatory retirement age for judges and the independence of the data protection authority, also requesting further information from the hungarian authorities on the independence of the judiciary. the european parliament calls on the hungarian government, in the common interest of the hungarian citizens and of the union, to comply with the recommendations, objections and requests of the european commission, the council of europe and the venice commission on the issues raised above and to amend the relevant laws accordingly, respecting the core values and standards of the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution on the upcoming presidential election in russia because it represents an important document for the european union in its relations with the eastern european country. not only does it register the importance of a mutual pacific and closer partnership, but it also rightly puts the accent on the need for russia to undertake serious reforms in the direction of the full democratisation of its political framework. the resolution that the european parliament has adopted, in fact, shows once more the role of the ep as the defender of democracy in europe and for the union external relations. i finally want to draw attention to the vital contribution by the s&d to the joint motion, in particular having successfully obtained the requirement for the european parliament to strongly urge russia to seriously take its responsibility for international peace and security, by allowing the security council of the un to act in order to solve the dramatic situation in syria.
in writing. - i voted against the resolution because i believe that the proposed text does not provide sufficient guarantees for the parties involved. no measures are therefore provided to support small farms in morocco, which are at risk of being replaced by intensive farms. furthermore, the exploitation of workers on large farms is not being tackled. on the other hand, the document does not address the concerns expressed by the representatives of european producers in the fruit and vegetables sector. they repeatedly requested that clauses be included to protect them from unfair competition from moroccan producers. at the same time, it is important to comply with eu phytosanitary import criteria. for these reasons, i support the commission's carrying out of impact studies in order to adapt the provisions of the agreement to the technical requirements of the new common agricultural policy.
in writing. − in recent months, there have been profound changes in the southern mediterranean and it is important that the european union gives even more support to the aspirations of the citizens of these countries. the kingdom of morocco has embarked for several years on a comprehensive process of political, economic and social reforms. europe has supported and will continue to support the reform programme and the efforts made by morocco to implement it, a process accompanied by a structured and frank dialogue in which human rights are an essential element.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu cannot stand by and watch the violence and brutal repression in syria continue. the european commitment was illustrated by the restrictive measures that entered into force on 18 january 2012 and by the additional sanctions adopted by the european council on 23 january 2012. in particular, the additional restrictions on the transfer of funds and the provision of financial services are likely to affect the syrian regime's ability to acquire new equipment that could be used for repressive purposes. but international pressure must be stepped up to get the syrian regime to end the violence and pave the way for a peaceful democratic transition. the european union has a responsibility to continue to invest in a coordinated and firm position of the international community, including in the un. after 11 months of revolt, the humanitarian situation is particularly difficult in many parts of syria. in these circumstances, the european commission's decision in january to provide humanitarian assistance is welcome. however, it needs to be accompanied by a strengthening of the humanitarian capacity of the eu mission in damascus. i would like to draw attention in this context to the need to provide the necessary support to european citizens on syrian territory.
in writing. − voting in favour of this motion regarding the dreadful situation of syria represents this parliament’s duty to rapidly, jointly and strongly respond to the syrian army’s massive violation of human rights in the country. my vote in favour of this motion has to be read as my strong personal concern about the killings, tortures and mass arrests in syria. the european parliament, with this document, is sending a clear message to assad’s regime to immediately stop the crimes he has been perpetrating, reiterating its call for the regime to step aside in order to allow a peaceful and democratic transition to take place. the motion also deplores the behaviour of russia and china towards the crisis, calling on their international responsibility as members of the security council of the united nations. as member of the socialists and democrats at the european parliament i want to stress the importance of russia stopping its supply of weapons to syria and to call on the european union to set up a blacklist of companies that continue to deliver arms to the country.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on parliament's position on the 19th session of the un human rights council, as respect for, and the promotion and guarantee of, the universality of human rights are an integral part of the union's acquis and one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity. parliament called on the member states to actively oppose any attempt to undermine the universality, indivisibility and interdependence of human rights and to actively encourage the united nations high commissioner for refugees (unhcr) to pay equal attention to combating any kind of discrimination based on gender, race, age, sexual orientation and religion or belief. we welcome the inclusion on the agenda of the 19th ordinary session of the un human rights council of thematic discussions on children's rights, freedom of expression on the internet, freedom of religion, belief and conscience, combating discrimination and violence on the grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, human rights and hiv/aids, human rights and combating terrorism, and the declaration on the rights of minorities. the union and its member states must guarantee respect for human rights in all their policies and in international agreements in order to increase the coherence between their internal and external policies, thereby enhancing the eu's credibility in the unhrc.
in writing. − globally, nearly 350 million people are affected by various forms of visual impairment. at the same time, as indicated in several european union documents, increasing the social inclusion of blind people is one of the objectives assumed in view of achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the creation of a european society in which equal opportunities are institutionalised and the support of political authorities to remedy or ameliorate the problems faced by a whole category of european citizens is a fundamental objective of european leaders and politicians. the proposal to amend the legislation to ensure greater access to written materials for visually impaired persons is therefore legitimate. it is important, however, that this measure is complemented by other policy decisions to help increase social inclusion and equal opportunities.
in writing. − access to written culture for the blind is still very limited, with only 5% of european publications available in accessible formats. their educational opportunities, especially in the sciences, are extremely limited because of the lack of textbooks and courses designed specifically for them. to meet this challenge, the council and the commission must support a world intellectual property organisation treaty on copyright for books and printed materials for the blind and visually impaired.
in writing. - i voted for the parliament's resolution on access for blind people to books and other printed products. article 26 of the charter of fundamental rights of the eu lays down the principle that the union recognises and respects the right of persons with disabilities to benefit from measures ensuring their autonomy, social and occupational integration and participation in the life of the community. according to european statistics, blind and visually impaired people in the eu have limited access to books and other printed materials because 95% of published works are not converted into formats accessible to them, such as braille, audio or electronic formats. i would point out that there are barriers to access for visually impaired and partially blind persons to copyrighted works. we therefore call for the creation of an online e-book service accessible throughout the eu. at present, there is no international legal norm providing for an exception to copyright for the cross-border distribution of formats adapted for visually impaired persons. we call on the council and the commission to support a binding wipo copyright treaty for books and printed materials for the blind and visually impaired.
in writing. − the social, commercial and economic integration of the mediterranean region among the countries belonging to this area has become a major objective of european policy on the mediterranean basin with the establishment of the euromed union. the conclusion of this convention is one of the instruments that can make a significant contribution to trade relations between the eu and its partners and to the continued development of investment in the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour because i believe that the conclusion of the regional convention on pan-mediterranean preferential rules of origin will bring timely simplifications for trade actors throughout this area, facilitating economic exchanges and thus contributing to the emergence of the euro-mediterranean free trade area. i believe that the new instrument will have important benefits, by increasing the geographical coverage of the cumulation of origin. it is relevant that the new convention will provide a single framework for the european union's trade relations with countries previously covered by various cooperation frameworks. the rules of origin in the trade agreements with the states participating in the barcelona process, respectively in the stabilisation and association process and the efta states will thus be unified. trade facilitation is likely to generate economic growth, with effects both for the balkan countries and for those in the southern neighbourhood. this single and simplified framework will support the work of enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. it will also create the conditions for increased trade between the countries of the south. at the same time, to ensure the success of the new instrument, prompt and effective action by the commission in response to any possible malfunctions is necessary.
in writing. − the conclusion of the regional convention on pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin is an important step in the effective continuation of the process initiated in barcelona. it is an intermediate step in the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area, and the ultimate goal is the creation of a single convention to replace the current network of over a hundred bilateral protocols on rules of origin. we voted the draft resolution to create an instrument with a key role in reducing the complexity of current trade relations. strategies for the regions of the eu's southern neighbourhood must have a macro-regional approach. this will foster cooperation between regions to achieve common goals such as sustainable growth, encouraging investment through job creation and strengthening democracy. the development of effective cooperation between the european union and the mediterranean area requires the stimulation of access to funds through the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument (enpi). the simplification of the procedures for granting assistance to the mediterranean countries is also important. the european union must have flexible borders, not rigid ones, especially in economic relations!
in writing. − monitoring climate change and its impact on european countries, rapidly preventing security threats by collecting relevant information, providing data to underpin many economic and social policies of the european union and its member states are just some of the benefits of this important european programme. the initiative is also important because it is able to boost space research and exploration by bringing together resources that are not available to individual eu member states. the development of the programme is also important for the success of the europe 2020 strategy of the european union for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, significantly supporting the industrial component of this policy paper. i support the adoption of this programme which brings not only economic benefits (projected to be four times its costs by 2030), but also contributes to the development of better european governance.
in writing. − the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme provides information to help us better understand how our planet can be changed and the means by which this is done. mitigating climate change, addressing emergencies, ensuring better border control, improving security and alerting citizens if air quality deteriorates are activities that depend on accurate and timely information about our planet. according to a cost-benefit analysis, the gmes programme is expected to generate benefits at least twice the cost of investment by 2020 and four times the cost by 2030. this represents a huge potential for growth and job creation through the development of innovative services and commercial applications in the downstream sector. the european dimension of gmes generates economies of scale, facilitates joint investments in large-scale infrastructure, promotes coordination of efforts and observation networks, enables data harmonisation and intercalibration, and provides the necessary impetus for the emergence of world-class centres of excellence in europe.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on the future of the european earth monitoring programme (gmes) because this programme is a flagship eu space initiative and plays a key role in earth observation, being an essential tool for combating climate change and environmental degradation, for civil protection and security, sustainable development, mobility and crisis management. gmes offers important economic opportunities by stimulating innovation and job creation across the eu. gmes was established as an eu programme, funded from the union budget, worth approximately eur 3,2 billion until 2013, under the management and responsibility of the eu. we consider that the commission's current proposal to finance gmes outside the multiannual financial framework (mff) is not a viable solution, as the uncertainty surrounding gmes funding seriously affects the development and commercialisation of gmes services and applications, which are expected to generate economic growth and welfare for european citizens. in this regard, we call on the commission to present a legislative proposal for the long-term management, financing and operation of the gmes programme, funded under the mff, with a view to ensuring the proper implementation and functioning of the programme and achieving its objective of being fully operational from 2014.
mr. president, i have to go. belarus today is far from being part of the community of democratic countries. this is demonstrated by the way the justice system works, by the harsh intimidation of the opposition, by silencing it, or by the continued use of the death penalty. although the council decided to impose new sanctions at the end of january, their impact is limited and president lukashenko has shown no willingness to reform his system. in belarus, the opposition's activities could bring about major changes. it is the duty of the european countries to help them and not to let them lose hope. at the same time, we must say that russia has far more influence on the minsk leadership than the eu does at the moment, and we must take steps to ensure that president lukashenko and his most important ally say that what is happening in belarus is unacceptable and unworthy of europe in the 21st century.
the author. − in november 2011, we were discussing in this room about the flagrant cases of human rights violations in egypt, starting with the situation of bloggers el fattah and sanad. recent developments in egypt, whether it be attacks on ngos and foreign political foundations, or the massacre that followed the football match in port said on 1 february, force us to intervene again. it's very sad to do it, because we're not talking about egypt under mubarak, but the country that just celebrated the one year anniversary of the revolution. the ppe group has been among the supporters of the egyptian transition from the beginning, but this support cannot continue if the police brutally suppress the demonstrations, if the military trials continue and if representatives of ngos and foreign political foundations, including the konrad-adenauer-stiftung, are prosecuted for their action in support of the building of democracy in egypt. the transition to democracy cannot be done under the sign of intimidation.
in the last few months, we've heard too many disturbing news about egypt. frequent violence against coptic christians, demonstrations that have degenerated into brutal police interventions, sexual assaults against women, actions against ngos and international foundations. the tragic incident at port said is the latest illustration of a disturbing phenomenon. it seems that we are witnessing the rise of intolerance, radicalization and polarization in egyptian society. the question is, what can be done to prevent this trend from getting worse? i believe that the european parliament should continue to monitor developments in egypt and draw attention whenever there are any shortcomings. at the same time, the union's representatives need to express their concerns in dialogue with the cairo authorities, encouraging them to behave responsibly.
the european parliament has repeatedly supported the people who launched the arab spring and their aspiration for a modern, free and democratic region. the overthrow of mubarak in egypt has rekindled hope in the hearts of the egyptian people, hopes that today, unfortunately, are being confiscated by the military power, which does nothing but intimidate and harass representatives of non-governmental organizations and journalists. the military's attitude towards national and international organizations, as well as towards bloggers, journalists, militants violates international principles, to which egypt has committed itself, and certainly puts a hindrance in the way of the development of democracy. it is clear that the egyptians refuse to replace one dictatorship with another, this time military. the european union, the european parliament must ensure that this does not happen and that egypt will soon be led by a civilian government that responds to the aspirations of the egyptian people.
in writing. – i am very concerned about the situation in egypt, particularly the ongoing investigations into activities of ngos and political foundations, including the konrad adenauer foundation, the us international republican institute and the national democratic institute. reportedly, a number of defendants were referred to the cairo criminal court, as these organisations worked in egypt without formal authorisation, although appropriate procedures were followed for such authorisation. the work of these organisations is treasured by governments and civil society; they contribute to the establishment of the rule of law, good governance, and human rights. these are also values embraced by egypt. people took to the streets and put an end to mubarak’s regime to establish a more just society and secure the rule of law, good governance and human rights. egyptians exercised their rights to free expression and association. these are also the rights at stake for the organisations currently under investigation. i call upon the council and the commission to raise these issues with the egyptian government. criminal investigations against these organisations must stop. egypt must guarantee free expression and association, and welcome a solid civil society and political pluralism, so that arguments, not weapons, cross in the public space.
the author. - i'll start by saying i regret what happened in the noon vote. i then proposed that the phrase referring to japan be deleted from the resolution on the 19th session of the united nations human rights council. the reason was that we are now debating and voting on a joint resolution on the death penalty in this country, and i think it is much more subtle and nuanced than the condemnation that was left in the text of the resolution that i mentioned. in principle, i think we can say the following: japan is one of the european union's closest partners, and it is clear that if japan abolished the death penalty, its action would greatly influence the other nations that still retain this terrible instrument. on the other hand, if japan is not ready now for abolition, i think it is wiser that on the one hand the public debate started in 2010 continues and on the other hand a moratorium on executions that existed a decade ago in this country continues or is reproduced.
on behalf of the epp group. no executions were carried out in japan in 2011, but the new justice minister recently announced that executions may resume. the decision is in line with the majority current of japanese public opinion. according to some polls, 80% of the population would support the death penalty. under these conditions, it is difficult to promote a public debate in japan about changing the law or stopping executions. however, the union must encourage the tokyo authorities to address the open issue, involving discussions throughout society. more transparency is also needed on the conditions of detention and treatment of death row inmates. i also draw attention to the intention to reduce the period of execution of the sentence. there is a fear that this will make it impossible to correct any judicial errors.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, on behalf of the alde group, i would like to express solidarity with the victims of the natural disaster and nuclear accident that happened in japan one year ago. the eu should, and will, continue to give japan and the disaster zone all the necessary humanitarian, technical and financial aid and support. in our opinion, europe’s policy response to the disaster has been satisfactory. it was important that we did not take dramatic decisions with a long-term impact on the spur of the moment. the commission proposed, agreed and coordinated voluntary stress tests. we consider this was the right thing to do. my group looks forward to the final report that will be presented at the european council in june 2012, and is confident that all the necessary steps will be taken to ensure that our nuclear plants are safe and even able to resist terrorist attacks. however, we also recognise that it is impossible to create a 100% risk-free world. the main question now is what should the nuclear future of the european union be? it is a question for which there is no common answer. the reality is that we do not have similar views in the european union on nuclear energy as part of national energy mixes, so we cannot at this moment have a common answer other than that of focusing on the safety of nuclear power. the disaster in japan highlighted the risks of nuclear power, but this was not something we did not know about. another answer is the common energy market. we should work on this, in order for governments to be able to invest in renewable energy resources that are environmentally sound, affordable and reliable. even though we can accept nuclear power as part of our energy mix for a while, we will have to look to a different future.
i would first like to congratulate the two co-rapporteurs on their work and tell you that although the european union has made a lot of progress in terms of legislation, regulations, we are still far from achieving the goal of gender equality. moreover, gender stereotypes still constitute a barrier to fundamental change in society, and austerity measures have deeply affected and directly affected women. that is why i believe that we must take consistent steps together, including legislative steps. i also welcome the opening of the public consultation on the introduction of quotas, because our political group supports both equal representation in the decision-making process at political and economic level and the introduction of quotas. we need these positive actions so that we can move closer to achieving the goal of gender equality. moreover, we need legislative solutions to reduce the gender pay gap, which has now increased as a result of austerity measures and the loss of jobs by women. we need legislative solutions to this and we also need to introduce a gender dimension in budgetary policies, especially as we prepare for the next financial framework 2014-2020.
from my own experience, it's not easy being a woman in politics, and being a young woman in politics is even harder. it is up to us to change this situation: we must work harder and therefore always be one step ahead of men. at the same time, we have to remain women when we do politics, not try to be more man than man. i support the report by mrs pietikäinen in the spirit of solidarity and collegiality, but i must make a few comments. women must constantly fight for what they want, not relying exclusively on these quotas of representation that we keep debating; women must not hold political office simply because they are women and we must have a certain quota of representation, but because they are competent and because they deserve these positions, and when it comes to promoting women in decision-making positions, we must speak less and take concrete action. we need to support each other, women, young and old, because solidarity is the key. the ladder that a successful female politician has climbed must be able to be climbed later by other women, perhaps younger and better trained. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposals on supporting women's organisations and promoting mentoring. finally, i would like to mention another aspect that affects women's ability to achieve their full potential: the acts of violence they are subjected to, especially within the family. on this occasion, i welcome the fact that in romania, on 8 march, international women's day, the amendment to the law on preventing and combating domestic violence was promulgated.
i think we can all agree that the active participation of women in the labour market in the european union, regardless of the field and place of work, in the home country or in another member state, has positive effects on society and the economy as a whole. i believe that measures to combat the economic and financial crisis at european level should pay greater attention to supporting women who want to pursue an economic activity, including stimulating their entrepreneurial spirit. for this reason, i believe it would be beneficial to set up specialized structures for vocational and legal training and counselling, precisely so that women entrepreneurs can become familiar with the necessary procedures and benefit from possible public and private financing for starting up economic activities. i also support the report's proposal for a european strategy to provide equal opportunities in employment and to reduce the pay gap between men and women doing the same work and with the same qualifications. otherwise, chance cannot turn into reality.
i am convinced that the demographic trends in europe require that we pay even more attention to family support measures. in the uncertain situation caused by the economic crisis, we need to help families even more, and one of the conditions for this is to create more flexible working conditions for women. while respecting the principle of equality between women and men, we cannot ignore the fact that having a child requires more sacrifices from women - i say as the father of four children - even from the point of view of their career than from men. in some countries, there are extensive family support practices. however, in other countries, such as romania, this is still a relatively new field. we therefore initiated the romanian government to propose extensive family support measures. we believe that the only way to build a successful europe is to tackle the problem of an ageing society primarily by increasing the number of children rather than by immigration policy.
i'm going to talk about the role of women in the context of regional development policy. it is clear that we need, more than ever, to make more and more use of women in what i would call the 'european renaissance'. whether we're talking about women's role in economic development, whether we're talking about their role in raising and educating children, in caring for the elderly, we agree that they should be given full appreciation in a real way and, above all, non-discrimination. to reduce the differences in pay and representation as described in the report, i believe action is needed at all levels. in my view, as a member of the committee on regional development, i believe that projects implemented at regional level and financed by european funds should show as clearly as possible how equality between women and men is ensured in their activities. the european regional development fund may encourage specific actions aimed at gender equality to be taken into account in the project evaluation and selection process. i believe that the time is right to integrate gender equality issues more and more effectively into regional policies so that european funds can subsequently support projects that are properly implemented.
last year, in the european union, women over 65 were 38% more numerous than men. this is why, at union level, more women than men are at risk of poverty and social exclusion. according to eurostat, in 2010, the employment rate for women aged 25-64 was only 43.3% for those with low education, 66.6% for those with medium education and 80.6% for women with high education. although 60% of higher education graduates are women, we do not find the same representation of women in either politics or business leadership. we believe that setting a target of equal representation in elected positions in national parliaments and the european parliament and 40% by 2020 in senior positions in large european companies will encourage women to develop and plan their careers appropriately.
in writing. equal opportunities is still an objective that has not been fully achieved. the statistics show where women are at this moment, and it's not fair at all, and we need to make firm decisions. the extension of the quota system to private enterprises throughout the union would go a long way. personally, i think we need women in the top leadership structures of companies, but also in politics. but change must start at the level of mindset. we have to fight against the stereotypes promoted by men, but also by women. although they represent more than half of the population, women do not yet seem ready to elect women to public office. on a pragmatic level, i would suggest that we focus more on rural women. we can use european funds to inform, train and provide them with job prospects and well-being, so as to ensure their economic and social independence. i don't think we can question the capacity or competence of women employees today, any more than we can decide on behalf of women on issues related to their health or how they want to reach their full potential.
the functioning of the internal market should be facilitated by removing obstacles to the free movement of persons who currently face difficulties in exercising their rights in the context of a succession with cross-border implications. the scope of the regulation covers all civil law aspects of succession, namely all forms of transfer of property, rights and obligations by reason of death. this regulation should allow citizens to organise their succession in advance by choosing the applicable law. that law applicable to their succession should determine who the beneficiaries are in any case of succession and should govern the succession from its opening until the transfer of ownership of the assets forming part of the succession to the beneficiaries. the documents issued by notaries in matters of succession in the member states should circulate under this regulation. the european certificate of succession issued under this regulation should be a valid document for the registration of the estate in a register of a member state. the authorities involved in the registration operation may require the person requesting registration to provide additional information and documents required under the law of the member state in which the register is kept, for example information or documents relating to the payment of tax documents. it would have been important for the completion of the internal market and the removal of barriers to the free movement of persons that this regulation applied to all member states. we therefore hope that the current situation in which the united kingdom, ireland and denmark are not bound by this regulation and are not subject to its application will be resolved.
the report makes clarifications that will facilitate the mobility of european citizens. i welcome the establishment of jurisdiction by centre of interest of the succession, as proposed in amendment no 6 to the commission's text. moreover, mutual recognition of succession rights will eliminate the current red tape through the use of the european certificate of succession. in this way, long-term cross-border mobility of persons is encouraged. it also ensures a predictable legal regime of succession for the whole european area by eliminating conflicts of jurisdiction. i would point out in this context the clarifications provided by the new romanian civil code on this matter. the institution of succession law is fundamental in the civil system of my country and its adaptation to today's realities guarantees the optimal functioning of the legal circuit of property.
in writing. the importance of crossborder successions within the european union has been repeatedly highlighted. the diversity of substantive law, rules of international jurisdiction or applicable law, the multiplicity of authorities that may be seised in an international succession, and the fragmentation of successions that may result from those divergent rules constitute an obstacle to the free movement of persons within the union. they currently face significant difficulties in exercising their rights in the context of an international succession. those different rules impede the full exercise of the right to private property, which, according to the settled case-law of the court of justice, is an integral part of fundamental rights, the observance of which is ensured by the court. in my view, it is necessary to make clear the situations in which the issuing of a european certificate of succession is necessary. the procedure will remain national when there is no foreign element. since the european certificate of succession replaces the national certificate and since the legislation of a member state contains different provisions concerning the national certificate of succession, i consider it necessary that the european certificate of succession contains both the european elements considered to be minimum and mandatory and any additional elements provided for by the national legislation.
at a meeting of the bolshevik party's political bureau in 1923, stalin said: "it does not matter who and how votes, it matters who counts the votes". evil and cynical, but so current. just as there is a drug mafia, a gun mafia, a banking mafia, so there is a polling mafia. as a sociologist by profession, i can testify that in my country, romania, this situation has reached monstrous proportions, especially since, year after year, the market for opinion polls runs enormous sums, in the order of tens of millions of euros. the fake polls are the beginning of the election fraud. i call on the european parliament to get involved in establishing a strict control of the market for opinion polls at the continental level, with exemplary punishments for offenders. we cannot talk about democracy and free elections if they are tainted by some shameless fraud.
for various reasons, especially during this difficult economic period, the problems that couples or families face have increased, often resulting in domestic violence. moreover, recent events have shown how innocent people can be hurt when violence transcends family boundaries. we need much clearer measures, effective programmes to prevent these situations. families, most often victims of this form of violence, need to be protected. children and young people must be protected. i am confident that both the operational programmes in the member states to be supported by european funds and the programmes implemented at european union level, such as the daphne programme, will continue to encourage and financially support projects aimed at combating domestic violence. i regret that, in a time of great challenges, there are people who cannot handle certain difficulties. to reduce this, we need consolidated action at european and national level.
romania, like other member states, faced a very difficult winter in february: massive snowfall accompanied by frost. as such, many vegetable producers in several counties of romania are currently in a very difficult situation. in vrancea alone, one of the most affected counties, over 44 000 m2 of solariums, out of a total area of 67 000 m2, were damaged between 60% and 100%. unfortunately, there are no provisions in the current legislation on possible compensation for vegetable producers. in addition, greenhouses and solar panels cannot be insured because they are not considered profitable investments by the relevant companies. i believe that the european executive must take these events into account and look for solutions to support the producers affected in order to mitigate the effects of the losses suffered, but also to revive activity in this area with major implications for both vegetable growers and consumers who will face a shortage of vegetables and the increase in their prices on the markets.
i believe in the need to protect intellectual property rights, but i do not think that the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, the so-called acta, is the right instrument to achieve this. according to experts, the permissive language of the text is interpretable and may lead to violations of citizens' fundamental rights. i welcome the referral of the treaty to the european court of justice, but i also believe that there are other concerns which should lead us to vote against it. acta will be less effective if the countries with the highest levels of counterfeiting are not among the signatories. developing countries, which are currently excluded from the treaty, could also be pressured in the long term to ratify a text to which they did not contribute. rules on intellectual property should be established at european level on the one hand and at global level on the other through organisations such as the world trade organisation or the world intellectual property organisation. by being outside them, acta damages those governance structures.
almost half of romania's population lives in poverty, and yet the government tells people they have to choose between raising wages and supporting the economy by reducing social security contributions for employers. these measures are possible at the same time if the government takes seriously the objective of reducing evasion and corruption in the administration. and people can be given their severely cut wages quickly, and businesses can be given urgent tax relief, but only if the budget is freed from the huge pressure of the clientele and the mobs supported by the ruling party and if the theft of public money stops. the economic crisis will only be overcome if we get out of the logic of austerity measures that have plunged romania into poverty, if people are helped to survive by the restoration of wages and, at the same time, the economy is stimulated to work to create jobs and generate development.
in the economic and financial crisis facing europe, however, there is one area that has been less affected by the crisis. these are cooperative companies: their turnover has increased, they have been less affected by bankruptcy and redundancies, they provide jobs locally and regionally and, very importantly, they cannot be relocated. in addition, cooperatives provide highly skilled jobs, with women occupying a significant number of these jobs. i believe that member states should support more such initiatives, even though there are countries where the concept of the cooperative has been discredited for historical reasons and where the takeover by employees of crisis-affected enterprises is supported, precisely to avoid their relocation. as such, i support the idea of organising information campaigns for european citizens on the contribution of cooperatives to sustainable economic and social development.
i welcome the report by mr giegold on his own initiative on the supplement to the statute of the european cooperative society with regard to employee participation. i find the pan-european supplement useful, especially because in my country, romania, as in other member states in the region the status and credibility of cooperatives were seriously compromised during the communist period. moreover, the commission's report of 5 october 2010 is not encouraging either, with certain chapters being overstated. through an open system of coordination, a stronger european presence in the cooperative system would be highly desirable and useful. i'm truly sorry that this report is entirely my own initiative.
i would like to express my satisfaction at the contribution made by the european council and the european commission to the calmer situation that exists today with regard to the problem of over-indebted member states. but at the same time i am disappointed that even after this european council, romania and bulgaria have remained outside the schengen area, even though they have fulfilled all the conditions required by this agreement to be accepted into the schengen area. it is no coincidence that there is only one member state that opposes the entry of romania and bulgaria into the schengen area and i say no coincidence - in this member state, the netherlands, a small party in government has initiated a website which is an insult to european values, an insult to the free movement of persons in the european union. unfortunately, the response of the european commission and the european council has been very weak so far. i do not think we can tolerate such initiatives in one member state or another which go against european values and i hope that the european parliament will take a firm stand this afternoon in condemning such initiatives.
i have participated with great interest in this morning's debate on the council conclusions and i want to say to you that yes, it is clear, we need fiscal stability, but we also need growth. but for growth we need a concrete investment plan, to find the sources, to identify them, and the sectors that have growth and employment potential. because a lot of citizens, especially young people and women, need jobs and we have to create those jobs. and i ask myself why, if there are sources through that savings directive that mr barroso has spoken of, why is that directive still blocked within the council and why, when we talk about growth, employment and social policies, is the directive on maternity leave still blocked within the council? and i would also like to stress that i hope that in september romania and bulgaria will join schengen.
as regards the schengen issue, i believe that the continuing opposition of the netherlands to the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area is an abuse that is contrary to the long-term principles and objectives of the european union. the netherlands' position has delayed the decision on romania and bulgaria's access to the schengen area and has shown, once again, that while all member states have equal responsibilities, not all enjoy the same benefits. ladies and gentlemen, the populist ambitions of some leaders and parties on the european political scene only weaken the union's power and reduce the credibility of politicians at european level. given that all the conditions for accession have been fulfilled, i hereby call on all the institutions responsible to identify and implement all the necessary measures to contribute to the enlargement of the schengen area.
in writing. it is welcome that the council conclusions mentioned the request that the september jha council take the decision on the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area. it's more than nothing. the normal course would have been to ask for a decision at the next jai council, to stop an unjustified delay and without legal arguments. i think the schengen issue has become a concern for the union in general, not just for romania and bulgaria. the introduction of temporary border controls by denmark and france, the intention of the netherlands to install cameras at the dutch borders, the discussions on the legal basis for the schengen evaluation regulation, the recent statements by france are putting undue pressure on one of the union's most positive achievements: the free movement of persons. i therefore call on the council to pay very close attention to this subject in the very near future.
in writing. – it seems that both the council and the commission are taking the fact that for the first time this council was not held in response to a crisis as a sign that the crisis had started to be tamed; we only need more time ... . that time, however, might instead bring more xenophobia and more protectionism, as the electoral campaign in france is clearly demonstrating. my colleague hannes swoboda has asked a rhetorical question: what if we all had to show our passport once again to enter france? well, as a romanian mep, i have to do this every time i come to strasbourg, and not just to board a plane, as my colleague mr gollnisch pointed out, but to be allowed to enter the country which is making me attend the part-sessions here, in strasbourg, instead of brussels. and, on top of that, sometimes i have to subject myself to a search without a warrant instead of a normal airport check, and this only because my country is kept out of schengen arbitrarily. yes, we need tough measures to get out of the crisis, but not at the expense of what we have achieved with such effort until now.
in writing. the european council has again blocked romania and bulgaria's access to the schengen area. apparently, the blockade is a follow-up to the dutch veto. in reality, behind this opposition are other states whose leaders are trapped in national-populist discourse. against the backdrop of the global economic crisis, the renationalisation of europe is becoming threatening. the sacrifice of the freedom of movement of persons under the pretext that the security and cultural purity of european nations would thus be saved is the expression of the eurosceptic current that now marks the election campaign in france. if the french rejected the constitutional treaty in a referendum focused on debating national issues, the current presidential elections are bringing european issues into dispute. it would be salutary if the tone were not anti-european. mr hollande is speaking out against the european economic governance initiated by the fiscal compact. mr sarkozy calls for a 'political governance' of the schengen area. a 'strong france' would define the principles of this governance, allowing 'legitimate' governments, unlike the european commission, to sanction states that do not sufficiently combat illegal immigration. the real problem is not the defence of the eu's external borders, but the inconsistency of eu migration policy. a community solution is also needed to guarantee the application of the principle of solidarity and sincere cooperation between eu member states, enshrined in the treaties but now a dead letter.
in writing. the european council of 1-2 march 2012 was marked mainly by the signing of the treaty on stability, coordination and governance in the framework of economic and monetary union. implementing the eu's economic strategy, however, requires decisive action to stimulate growth and job creation. the european council endorsed the five priorities for 2012 identified in the commission's annual growth survey: continuing growth-friendly differentiated fiscal consolidation, resuming the normal lending activity of the economy, promoting growth and competitiveness, addressing unemployment and the social consequences of the crisis, and modernising public administration. however, i believe that further efforts are needed at eu level to achieve the single market and in particular to complete the digital single market by 2015. i emphasise the important role of industry in growth, competitiveness, exports and job creation in europe, as a driver of productivity and innovation. i welcome the decision of the european council to grant serbia the status of candidate country. given that the european commission has repeatedly recognised that romania and bulgaria fulfil the technical criteria for accession to the schengen area, i ask the council to adopt a decision to this effect as soon as possible.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me start by saying that i have been impressed by the commitment of members to debate this issue. as i started out by saying, the danish presidency would certainly have liked it if a solution on the egf could have been found in the council. that was not possible, and now we will be working on the future of the egf. i will be looking forward to constructive cooperation with this house. i would also like to make it very clear that the danish presidency, and the council, are firmly committed to combating the crisis as we know it because, as many members in this chamber have made clear, the crisis is not over yet. therefore it is important that we continue to reform the single market and that we use the euros in the mff as wisely as possible to make sure that growth and job creation will be on the agenda, especially for young people. that will be the aim of the danish presidency and of the commission. i will also be looking forward to working closely with parliament on achieving this.
in writing. i consider that the extension of the derogation concerning the european globalisation adjustment fund is necessary in the current context. to date, this instrument has proved useful in mitigating the effects of the economic crisis and preventing other social disasters. in order to continue in the same direction and to steer the economy towards sustainable growth, i consider it important to adapt the fund. this mechanism is particularly necessary for workers, the victims of the crisis, who need to find an answer to their problems. we need to support displaced workers in their search for a new job, and eu assistance in this regard needs to be more dynamic to meet their needs. in december, romania requested the european commission for financial assistance through the european globalisation adjustment fund for nokia employees, who decided to move their business to asia. i recall that in september last year nokia announced the closure of the jucu factory and the transfer of business to china, despite the fact that in 2010 the cluj factory recorded a turnover increase of more than 55% compared to the previous year. my country's position is in favour of maintaining the instrument with a european co-financing rate of 65%.
in writing. the economic crisis has led to a decline in economic activity and has led to an increase in unemployment amid a steep decline in productivity and a deterioration in the public finance system. the adaptation of the egf has become necessary in order to mitigate the effects of the current crisis. recent forecasts indicate that structural changes in economic sectors will continue to involve job losses due to the closure of some enterprises or the relocation of others. i would like to stress that many member states have not benefited from egf benefits to date, due to the fact that they have not faced massive closures or relocations. due to recent restructuring at company level, there is a risk that redundancies will become a frequent phenomenon in the immediate future. i therefore consider it absolutely necessary to extend the derogation in the light of the crisis. the importance of financing with egf support lies in its flexibility. by targeting aid to affected workers over a limited period of time, the egf contributes to reducing unemployment, enabling member states to emerge from the economic crisis and steering their economies towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth.
in writing. the extension of the crisis derogation should be maintained, at least temporarily. it is clear that offshoring is, at least for now, vital for european capital looking for areas with lower wages. to respond to the effects of globalisation, the union has created this fund. to what extent it's functional, that's another discussion altogether. but at the moment we have no tools to mitigate the effects of bankruptcies or job cuts due not to globalization but simply to the economic crisis. initiatives related to research and innovation, to increasing competitiveness - these are economically sound, but they only have long-term effects. until then, europe must overcome the crisis. either a new, dedicated instrument or the extension of the derogation is necessary in this respect.
i voted for mr giegold's report because european cooperatives contribute to economic growth, the strengthening of the internal market and job creation. they also participate in the implementation of cohesion policy, by working at global and regional level. at present, this important sector is not managed in a uniform manner. i welcome the initiative to revise the european cooperative societies directive under article 17 to take into account the specific needs of workers. their participation in cooperatives is essential and must take place under the most favourable conditions. at the same time, the statute of the european cooperative society should be amended in order to simplify access for users. this will establish a uniform legal framework to enable cooperative societies in the member states to plan and carry out their activities at community level.
i voted in favour of this report because the union needs quality education that encourages research and innovation. young people need to be able to develop a wide range of skills in order to integrate and adapt quickly to the labour market. given the difficulties encountered in the first employment, i stress the importance of internships and professional integration programmes. recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications is essential to encourage student mobility, but also for the single market and the free movement of workers. i hope that the ministerial meeting in bucharest in april will produce positive results, contributing to the creation of the european higher education area. i mention that romania has launched a complex program of education reform, as part of the state reform. ensuring quality education remains one of the priorities of the romanian government.
in writing. − i welcome the objective of the agreement to improve judicial cooperation between the member states of the european union and norway and iceland by applying all the provisions of the 2000 convention on mutual legal assistance between member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament’s consent to the agreement between the european union and the republic of iceland and the kingdom of norway on the application of certain provisions of the convention of 29 may 2000 on mutual assistance in criminal matters, because it is an important step forward in the direction of a stronger mechanism for combating trans-border crime. both iceland and norway are already part of the schengen area: this agreement, by strengthening mutual legal assistance and by including provisions on hearing of witnesses, experts and accused persons by telephone or video conference, controlled deliveries, covert investigations and joint investigation teams and requests for information on banking transactions, bank accounts and their monitoring to combat crime in general and organised crime in particular, makes the partnership on criminal issues with the two northern european countries stronger and more effective. the european parliament, by giving its consent to this agreement, is providing democratic validation for its implementation within the eu as prescribed by the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − i supported this agreement at first reading because i believe that eu citizens who choose to settle in another member state were in great need of clearer rules on jurisdiction, conflict of laws and enforcement in relation to crossborder inheritances. the single market is not just about businesses doing business across national borders, but also about people setting up in other member states who need to feel as protected as in their home country. at present, if someone lives in a member state other than their home member state and owns property in that member state which they wish to leave as a legacy, there is a risk of conflict between the courts of the member states concerned claiming jurisdiction. this may lead to burdensome administrative formalities for heirs or even litigation in court. i consider that the european certificate of succession and the clarification that the competent court and the applicable law is that of the last member state in which the person was resident, unless the will specifies that the law of the state of origin applies, will simplify matters significantly while maintaining the necessary flexibility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for the regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and authentic instruments in matters of succession and the creation of a european certificate of succession, because it makes clearer the eu rules as regards to succession. a european certificate of succession represents a step forward in the direction of a more homogeneous legal framework in the member states, simplifying the adoption of the internal market rules in matters of succession. whereas cross-borders relations are growing within the eu, transnational and more harmonised tools are necessary to properly tackle the challenges and to take advantage of the benefits which come along with the single market. with this regulation, handling cross-border successions would be considerably easier. besides, the proposal stresses the ‘right to choose the law applicable’, a principle able to introduce a positive significant innovation for many citizens and for the member states as well: a significant european added value.
in writing. − i voted for the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of judgments and authentic instruments in matters of succession and the creation of a european certificate of succession. an increasing number of european citizens move from one country to another within the eu to live, study, work or retire. the number of eu-27 citizens residing in a member state other than their home member state reached approximately 12,3 million in 2010, an increase of 3 million compared to 2005. in order to settle a succession with elements of alienability in the union in a rapid, simple and effective manner, heirs, legatees, executors of wills or administrators of the estate should be able to easily prove their status and/or their rights and powers in another member state, for example in a member state where the estate is situated. the regulation thus provides for the creation of a uniform certificate, the european certificate of succession, to be issued for use in another member state. in order to respect the principle of subsidiarity, the certificate should not replace internal documents that may exist for similar purposes in the member states.
in writing. − the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives of building an open and inclusive society, capable of providing significant resources for the sustainable development of the european union in the medium and long term, cannot be achieved without addressing in a transversal way several gender equality issues facing societies in the member states. it is important, in these circumstances, that member states take legislative measures to ensure equal and effective economic independence for men and women in european societies. directly linked to this objective is the issue of equal pay for men and women without sustained efforts, the 17.5% gap between men's and women's earnings cannot be reduced. equally important to the success of the european union's medium and long-term objectives is addressing the gender gap in decision-making: with 60% of higher education graduates being women, the fact that only 12% of the executive board members of large listed companies and only 3% of the ceos of large european companies are women is further evidence of the systemic problems we face. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − despite a comprehensive theoretical framework of directional manifestations for the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women, inequalities persist in all fields of activity. in the current financial and economic context, strengthening the position of women in the labour market is not only a moral evolutionary argument but also an economic necessity. the risk of poverty and social exclusion continues to increase and the austerity measures taken by some member states in recent years have overlapped with the harsh reality of the lack of support mechanisms for women, in the context of discrimination in the labour market and in society. family and child support measures were eliminated or reduced in the context of many difficulties in the health and pre-school education system, lack of utilities and medical care in rural areas, which led to a sharp deterioration in the living standards of families with children. also, wage cuts were made in budgetary sectors dominated by women, such as education and health, which led to a considerable decline in incomes. in this context, we call on member states to implement urgent support measures, through the creation of effective poverty reduction and family support mechanisms, for the achievement of gender equality.
in writing. − as violence against women, including psychological violence, is a major obstacle to equality between women and men and a violation of their fundamental rights, and remains one of the most widespread human rights violations in the eu, i believe that member states and the european commission must move towards individualised social security systems to improve women's autonomy and position in society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a european parliament resolution on equality between women and men in the european union, because it represents a key priority of the eu for the coming years. the motion explains the crucial importance of overcoming gender disparities and any form of gender and sexual discrimination, also by explaining in clear and unequivocal terms the economic importance of gender equality for growth and in the fight against poverty. europe 2020 contains in its priorities the goal of a 75% employment rate for women by 2020. improvements have been achieved; however, because of the economic crisis, it is important to accelerate in this direction. this document tackles the problem through a pragmatic approach, underlines the current situation and calls the european union and its member states to enhance their efforts not only by providing sufficient funds to build a due balance between men and women in our societies but also by being the promoters of a change in people’s mindset and traditions.
in writing. − equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the eu and, despite the progress made, many inequalities between women and men still persist. i call on the european institutions and the member states to develop a clear strategy to address the gender pay gap - a european target of reducing the gap by 10% in each member state - by ensuring equal pay for women and men doing the same work and with the same qualifications. member states should in particular include women workers in the training and education programmes for 'green jobs', considered by the commission to be the 'key growth segment' of the european labour market. the representation of women in political decision-making has not improved, the representation of women and men in national parliaments has remained unchanged, 24% women and 76% men, and in some member states the number of women in national parliaments does not exceed 15%, with women overall representing 23% of all ministers. the commission shall propose in 2012 legislative acts, including quotas, to increase the representation of women in company management structures to 30% by 2015 and 40% by 2020, taking into account economic, legal and regional specificities.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on equality between women and men in the eu because equality between women and men is a fundamental principle of the union and because, despite progress in this area, many inequalities between women and men still persist. i voted for amendment no 28 because i believe that the definition of 'family' is a matter of subsidiarity. i voted for the request that member states use the 2007-2013 structural funds to develop childcare services to enable both women and men to combine work and private life. given that women in the eu earn on average 17.5% less than men, i called on member states to redouble their efforts to implement european measures to reduce this gap. i voted in favour of calling on the european institutions, the member states and the social partners to develop a strategy to address the persistent gender pay gap. i voted in favour of introducing statutory parity systems and gender quotas, both for parliamentary assemblies and for senior positions in companies, public administration and political bodies, given good practices in countries such as france and spain.
in writing. − a series of data published by eurostat in the context of international women's day indicates that in the european union, women are much more at risk of poverty and social exclusion than men, with the most dramatic situations in this regard in romania and bulgaria. mothers, especially single mothers, elderly women and women in rural areas are the main victims of the effects of the economic and financial crisis. the representation of women in political decision-making has not shown any linear improvement in recent years, and in some member states the number of women in national parliaments does not exceed 15%. across the european union, there is a clear under-representation of women in political office and a lack of parity is prevalent across all fields of activity. the active participation of women is an economic necessity in the current context and therefore the creation of mechanisms for the implementation of gender policies aimed at achieving parity in participation in the political decision-making process, ensuring the effectiveness of these measures, is indispensable.
in writing. − as women's participation and representation at the highest levels of political decision-making is still hampered by various issues, such as the lack of an encouraging atmosphere in political institutions and societal support structures, the persistence of gender stereotypes, and the consequences of the recent economic crisis and its negative impact on gender equality issues, i believe that member states and the commission should encourage women's networks and promote mentoring, necessary training and the exchange of good practices and programmes in this field, with a special focus on women in political decision-making at the beginning of their careers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on women in political decision-making – quality and equality – because it addresses a clear and fundamental problem in our political practices. women, despite the broad and shared acknowledgement of the need for equality in gender balance – in particular in power and decision-making – still face strong differences and barriers in their access to politics and public administration positions. it is worrying that during the last years no real and consistent improvements have been achieved as regards this crucial issue. the motion calls on the commission and the member states to elaborate clear measures to be implemented, such as a system of quotas to be applied by the member states at all levels of policy-making, including the areas of macro-economic policy, trade, labour, budgets, defence and foreign affairs.
in writing. − gender equality in decision-making is a matter of quality and equality. more gender-balanced participation contributes to more diverse and thus better decision-making. in order to strengthen women's political participation, the structural barriers that prevent women from participating in political life must be addressed. another action needed is the creation of an enabling environment for women to participate in political life at all levels. reconciling work and private life is recognised at eu level as an important priority for achieving gender equality and facilitating women's participation in political life. the commission and the member states should design and implement effective gender policies and strategies aimed at achieving parity in participation in political decision-making and political leadership at all levels, in particular in the areas of macroeconomic, trade, labour, budgetary, defence and external affairs policies, through impact assessment and the provision to the public of appropriate gender equality indices and indicators, ensuring quantified targets, clear action plans and regular monitoring mechanisms, followed by binding corrective actions and monitoring if targets are not met by deadlines.
in writing. − unfortunately, in the european union, although women represent 60% of higher education graduates, they are still underrepresented in positions of responsibility in the economy. i believe that more support is needed for initiatives and campaigns that challenge stereotypes about women's inefficiency in the workplace and their lack of leadership skills. on the other hand, i stress the importance of programmes for the vocational training of women in leadership positions. in conclusion, i would like to ask the member states to adopt measures setting binding targets to ensure the balanced presence of women and men in management positions in enterprises, in public administration and in the political sphere.
in writing. − i voted for the report on women in political decision-making quality and equality, because equal representation of women and men in political decision-making is an aspect of human rights, social justice, sustainable development and an essential requirement for the functioning of a democratic society. gender balance is guaranteed in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the objective of gender equality implies better political representation of women. the representation of women in political decision-making has stagnated in recent years, with the gender imbalance at the level of national parliaments in the eu remaining unchanged (24% women and 76% men), with women occupying only 23% of ministerial posts. the nordic countries have the highest level of women's representation in national parliaments, at 42.3%. in the european parliament, 35% of the members are women and 65% are men. i ask the commission to present to the european parliament an annual report on the progress of gender equality in political decision-making in the european union. it also calls on the commission and the council to commit themselves to achieving parity in all decision-making bodies by establishing and implementing quota systems when recruiting officials for senior levels.
in writing. − as only 12 member states had transposed the directive by the deadline set in the directive (18 august 2006), with the last implementing provisions being adopted only in march 2009, the commission launched infringement actions against 16 member states, followed by three referrals to the european court of justice. in almost all member states, transposition was achieved through the adoption of legislative provisions preceded by consultation of the social partners, through procedures that reflected the specific traditions of each country. the cooperative movement has been associated with this procedure in most member states. the main way of achieving this objective is through an agreement negotiated between the management of the legal persons concerned and the workers' representatives. in the absence of agreement after a period of six months (which may be extended by common agreement to 12 months), the directive lays down a number of reference provisions. in addition, the employees' representatives may decide not to open or terminate the negotiations and to rely on the rules on information and consultation of employees in force in the member states where the sce has employees.
in writing. − as the economic and financial crisis has shown that the issue of the attractiveness of a legal form cannot be seen only from the point of view of the shareholders; i believe that an enterprise as a social organisation has responsibilities towards shareholders, workers, creditors and society, and this must be taken into account in such an assessment, and i believe that there is a need to ensure a contribution of cooperatives to the social dialogue at european union level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on the statute for a european cooperative society with regard to the involvement of employees because it brings to the attention an issue which, in my opinion, deserves a much higher position in the european agenda. the model of cooperative societies, especially in a period of economic crisis, represents a virtuous example for sustainable development, social and financial responsibility, a catalyst for workers’ rights and a very useful tool for tackling local and regional development. this document urgently calls the commission for greater concern as regards to the sces, by asking measures to have the implementation of the directive 2003/72/ec supplementing the statute for a cooperative society with regard to the involvement of employees respected by the member states, and by stressing the disappointing scarcity of funds that are minimizing the impact of sces. i strongly believe that the european social model is not dead. cooperatives enhance the work sector and embody the virtues of fair and responsible workfare. they deserve much more.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, given that european cooperative societies (ecs) can be a means of developing the economic power of smes on the market. however, as of 8 may 2010 there were only 17 european cooperative societies registered in 9 member states, none with a significantly large number of employees. while the eu's 21 million smes are a major asset for sustainable growth and job creation, the difficulty of accessing finance is a major obstacle preventing smes from launching new products, strengthening their infrastructure and hiring more workers. it is therefore necessary for member states to promote more favourable conditions for access to credit and tax incentives. access to finance for smes is also a key objective proposed by the commission in the 12 'together for a new growth' levers for stimulating growth and building citizens' confidence in the single market act, and the key action proposed by the commission is to implement legislation to make it easier for venture capital funds established in one member state to invest in any other member state without any additional obstacles or conditions.
in writing. − cooperative societies and other social economy enterprises are part of the european social model and the single market and should be given a high level of recognition and support. cooperative societies could be another step towards completing the eu's internal market and they aim to reduce existing cross-border barriers and strengthen the eu's competitiveness. thus, the specificities of social enterprises must be recognised and taken into account in european policies; measures must be taken to ensure that the european sme observatory includes social enterprises in its surveys; dialogue with social enterprises must be intensified and the legal framework for social enterprises in the member states must be improved. member states should promote more favourable conditions for cooperatives, such as access to credit and tax incentives. the commission should provide an open method of coordination for the social economy, including cooperative societies, involving member states and stakeholders to encourage exchanges of best practices and to ensure a gradual improvement in the way member states take into account the nature of cooperatives, in particular as regards taxation, credit, administrative burdens and measures to support enterprises.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on the european cooperative society's status in relation to worker participation, because the more than 160 000 cooperative societies across europe provide jobs for some 5.4 million people. cooperative societies create high-quality, locally-based, inclusive and crisis-resilient jobs that cannot, in principle, be relocated. we invite the commission and the member states to encourage cooperatives to step up their efforts to implement policies that promote diversity and ensure equality between men and women in the workplace and, in particular, to increase women's access to senior management positions. in this context, we urge the commission to include european cooperative societies in any european regulation to ensure better representation of women in management positions and on the boards of public and listed companies, should the companies fail to reach, on a voluntary basis, the 30% target by 2015 and the 40% target by 2020. member states should also promote measures to support enterprises, in particular advice on commercial matters, training of workers and access to finance.
in writing. − the development of the european union and the overcoming of the effects of the global economic and financial crisis require the continuation of european integration through the bologna process. support for education and training by national and european institutions is also an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy for a more open society and actively promotes social inclusion. continued european or national support for ensuring easy and equitable access to education and for increasing the representation of disadvantaged social groups is essential for the success of the strategy in this regard. i support the decision of the european authorities to promote policies at the level of the education systems of the member states to link the content of educational programmes with developments on the european labour market. equally important is the process of developing the research sector, which i consider essential for building an economy capable of sustaining development based on innovation and competition. with more and more young europeans choosing to study in a country other than their own, building a european society united in its diversity cannot take place without increasing the compatibility of national education systems.
in writing. − the bologna process has meant profound reforms of higher education for all participating states, marked by changes in legislation and a reconsideration of the basic principles of the educational process for a knowledge-based society. european universities have not only thoroughly revised and reorganised their educational activities in the context of the three-cycle framework envisaged by the bologna process, but have also strengthened their social role by carrying out activities more suited to the so-called 'third mission' of the university system. it is worth noting that there has not always been a good correlation between this system and the labour market. consequently, the statement in the lisbon document that 'despite providing education of a reasonable quality, european universities are not able to realise their full potential to promote economic growth, social cohesion and more and better jobs' remains valid. in the light of the above, i consider that the strengthening of the entire bologna process is essential for the growth targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy to be achieved.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate mr berlinguer on the clarity and conciseness he has shown in drawing up this report. education plays a key role in ensuring that european citizens have access to an internal market without barriers. there are generally recognised advantages of the bologna process, such as the introduction of ects credits, the facilitation of the recognition of diplomas in all eu countries, and consequently the recognition of professional qualifications within the eu. i am pleased to see the achievements of this process, which has given many young people the chance to study in different eu countries, and i believe that the reforms aimed at implementing it must be continued. i agree with the ideas put forward by the rapporteur and support increasing the number of beneficiaries of study grants abroad, facilitating the recognition of qualifications obtained and extending these programmes also within the post-graduate system. i am aware of the importance of education and the effects that gaps in the system could create - youth unemployment is the clearest indicator of this - which is why i support the eu's strongest contribution and involvement to ensure that our children's academic future is the best possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on the contribution of the european institutions to the consolidation and progress of the bologna process, because i strongly believe that, in order to reach the goal of becoming ‘the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world’, the eu must give itself a common framework for the higher education area and, more importantly, a truly european system for mutual recognition of diplomas. i want to underline how this issue closely intertwines these two fields of action. in fact, not only would a more integrated european university system provide evident benefits for research and industry in europe, but it is only possible if the eu is able to strengthen the mobility of its citizens within the union and if it enables the goal of social cohesion in europe. the targets of the bologna process are able to trigger this virtuous circle. this document delivers a clear message from parliament to the member states involved in the bologna process: we need more.
in writing. −the new eu 2020 strategy supports skills development through increased cooperation between education, business and governments. strategies developed by the european institutions have stimulated a major structural reform of the european university system. we need a harmonisation of academic standards at european level. but there are many problems in the eu's university systems, the most important being the link between universities and the labour market. we need to follow these issues closely. the report underlines that european universities have not only thoroughly revised and reorganised their educational activities in the context of the three-cycle framework envisaged by the bologna process, but have also strengthened their social role. i support this report and i advocate for more transparency of universities towards students.
in writing. − the bologna process has brought about fundamental changes in higher education in europe. remarkable progress has been made in many areas, but more efforts are needed to ensure full achievement of all the bologna objectives in the next decade. institutions should be supported to improve recognition and credit transfer by implementing ects, academic results, the diploma supplement and the lisbon convention on the recognition of qualifications in a comparable and fair manner across europe (for example, through a european recognition user guide and european training seminars funded by the commission). signatory countries should ensure the full and comparable introduction of national qualifications frameworks, in line with the urgently needed european higher education area qualifications framework, in order to facilitate mobility, recognition and lifelong learning. in order to promote europe as an attractive study destination for students from all over the world, the european commission could promote european higher education activities globally.
in writing. − by initiating the bologna process, we have achieved an important objective for the union and the partner countries: the creation of a common framework for higher education in europe. the principles on which this commitment is based have been largely implemented, whether it is the two-tier university structure, the system of transferable credits or the mobility of students and teaching staff. to further improve the global competitiveness of european higher education, and the integration of european citizens into the labour market, we need to make further efforts. the number of master's places needs to be adapted to the existing demand, given that in some countries the bachelor's degree offers low employment prospects. at the same time, it is necessary to regulate the status of pre-bologna students in those countries where they are disadvantaged in entering master programmes. on the other hand, universities in the signatory states must recognise traineeships completed under mobility programmes supported by the european commission, while creating a sufficient number of traineeships to facilitate their subsequent integration into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of mr berlinguer's report because it stresses the need to adapt education systems to the current market requirements. in the current socio-economic conditions, it is very important to strengthen the entire bologna process in order to achieve the growth targets set out in the europe 2020 strategy. on the other hand, such consolidation is one of the requirements for the full integration of the eu's internal market and an indispensable tool to meet the challenges posed by the economic and financial crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the contribution of the european institutions to the strengthening and progress of the bologna process, as there is a need to strengthen support in terms of mutual recognition of university qualifications, harmonisation of academic standards, promotion of mobility, social dimension and employment prospects, active democratic participation and removal of administrative obstacles in the application of the principles of the bologna process. i voted for member states to reiterate their commitment to the bologna process by strengthening the financing system to achieve the growth targets set by the europe 2020 strategy. i voted for paragraph 26, which stresses that measures to facilitate occupational integration (e.g. lifelong learning and the development of a broader range of labour market-friendly skills) must be top priorities in order to achieve sustainable growth and prosperity objectives. in this context, we support university exchanges of teachers and students, university-business dialogue, apprenticeships and the skills passport. we stress the need for specific action and more effective cooperation between universities and the labour market, with a view to developing more relevant university programmes, harmonising educational activity and improving employment prospects by establishing similar criteria for access to different professions.
in writing. − statistical information is the result of statistical production processes carried out throughout the european statistical system (ess). users of european statistics should be able to use this information with confidence for decision-making purposes. to this end, those statistics shall be appropriate for use. it is essential that users consider statistics to be relevant, timely, accurate and in line with the principles of official statistics, such as professional independence, impartiality and objectivity. this is true for the whole of the european statistical system, including eurostat. the overall quality of statistical information at european level depends to a large extent on the adequacy of the entire production process used to obtain these statistics. if the data provided by the member states are of unsatisfactory quality, this has a negative impact on the quality of european statistics. to prevent such situations, comprehensive and reliable sse quality management is needed. this systemic approach to quality will benefit from the results of the reform of the method of production of european statistics, as it is expected to streamline the entire chain of statistics production.
in writing. − as eurostat provides the economic indicators needed for the surveillance of fiscal policies and the scoreboard of macroeconomic imbalances, alongside new enforcement mechanisms, i believe that the quality management of government financial statistics and other national statistical data, as well as the accuracy and timely reporting of data, is a prerequisite for the proper functioning of the european statistical system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on quality management for european statistics, because i firmly believe that improvements in the quality of statistics delivery, and in their driving mechanisms, have an evident impact on the policy-making – and therefore on the economic credibility, stability and growth – of the european union and its member states. i greatly welcome this document, aimed at asking the commission for legislative proposals to introduce elements of the revised european statistics code of practice into eu law, because it calls for the independence and transparency of the statistical authorities to be strengthened, nationally and at european level, and asks eurostat to simplify its reports and publications in order to become more user-friendly and accessible to all eu citizens. i believe that clear, independent and transparent data gathering and publication provide a solid basis – and the most important starting point – for fair and balanced law-making.
in writing. − the provision of accurate and relevant statistics is essential for sustainable and balanced regional development. such details in areas such as demography, economy and environment play a key role in the decision-making process on regional development, in particular in the context of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy. it is therefore necessary to develop a coherent system of research on socio-economic processes in cross-border areas (including those in regions situated at the external borders of the european union), together with statistics for macro-regions, in order to obtain a complete and accurate picture of the economy in terms of regional and macro-regional development, covering both urban and rural areas. in the future, eurostat should find a way to make its analyses, especially online ones, easier for non-professionals to use and to include comparative charts to provide more added value to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european statistics report because, in my view, the provision of accurate and truly relevant statistics is essential both for sustainable and balanced regional development and for the development of european policies capable of responding effectively to economic, social and territorial realities at all levels: local, regional, national and european. we need to take the necessary steps to ensure that users of statistics have access to quality information, provided in a timely manner, both at member state and european union level. in the context of the economic crisis in the euro area, which has very clearly highlighted the risks associated with statistical inattention and statistical fraud, i consider it particularly important that statistical bodies have mechanisms and protective systems in place to avoid being politically influenced. this way we can be sure that they are independent, which is very important for maintaining the credibility of statistical data. and last but not least, i would like to welcome the binding nature of the rules on the production and verification of the accuracy of european statistics, because in this way member states will have to ensure that statistics are accurate at all levels of governance.
in writing. − the crisis of statelessness currently affecting europe, the achievement of the 2020 objectives and the need for sustained economic growth and development at both micro- and macro-regional levels require a coordinated, well-considered and evidence-based economic policy on the part of the european union (eu). clearly, only precise, objective figures, unaffected by political entities, can underpin the measures that will underpin the eu's sustainable economic development. to this end, it is important that both member states and eurostat make accurate and reliable data available to policy-makers and citizens. this is a prerequisite for monitoring economic and demographic developments and for allowing any erroneous measures to be corrected in a timely manner. it is essential that the court of auditors review the statistics submitted by eurostat and the member states, carry out regular financial audits and provide expert assistance, where necessary, by means of expertise. in light of all this, i can only support the motion.
in writing. − i voted for the report on quality management for european statistics because independent and high quality statistics are needed to guarantee growth and employment. users of statistics should have access to relevant, accurate and timely data, which should be collected and compiled by national agencies in accordance with the principles of impartiality, objectivity and professional independence. precise data are a basis for detailed information and analysis in areas such as demography, economics and the environment and therefore play a key role in regional development decision-making. eurostat publications, in particular online publications, should be easier to use for the average citizen and non-professionals. the eurostat website should allow easier access to complete data and include intuitive and comparative charts, in order to provide more added value and clarity for citizens. member states should ensure that statistics are accurate at all levels of governance. we encourage eurostat to inform the public if it has any doubts about the accuracy of all types of statistics. we invite the commission and the member states to take the necessary measures to strengthen the independence of eurostat, including through changes to its institutional status.
in writing. i am not surprised by the pvv initiative, because it is part of a series of such initiatives aimed at stigmatizing certain categories of immigrants, something that the european far right has been accustomed to for some time. but i am surprised at the dutch government's passivity towards an initiative that tramples on the values of the european union, inciting intolerance and discrimination. poland, romania and bulgaria are full eu members and their citizens should be treated as such, not as second-class citizens. the freedom of movement of workers is a fundamental freedom, enshrined in the treaty to which the netherlands is a signatory, and therefore a freedom which the netherlands must respect and facilitate at all times, not just when dutch companies have access to the markets of central and eastern europe. however, i do not support the call for a boycott of dutch products launched by some colleagues, because it is contrary to the principles of the internal market and because i am convinced that this approach is not supported by the majority of dutch society. we even received messages of support from dutch citizens who clearly distanced themselves from the pvv's approach. but i expect the same distance and firm condemnation from the dutch government.
in writing. the dutch government's silence on the racist website promoted by the pvv proves the major influence that this extremist party has in the european politics of the netherlands, especially with regard to the states of central and eastern europe. thus, the netherlands is the only member state that has practically closed the labor market to citizens of romania and bulgaria and also blocks the accession of the two countries to the schengen area illegally and, above all, immorally. this new website, deeply insulting and xenophobic, is a new expression of pvv's anti-europeanism which, unfortunately, is once again getting away with it by the european commission and, even more so, by the dutch government. both the silence of the dutch authorities and the inaction of the commission are unacceptable and encourage the pvv to continue its xenophobic policy. it would thus not be surprising if the pvv's next initiative was to require foreigners to wear distinctive signs or simply to expel them from the netherlands. as guardian of the treaties, the european commission must not only condemn these initiatives in statements, but also take real action in the absence of a satisfactory response from the national authorities.
in writing. i called on the dutch government, immediately after the site appeared, to react firmly to the initiative of the extremist government partners and drew the attention of the cabinet in the hague that it has an obligation to act so that the free movement rights of eu workers are defended. i would like to thank my colleagues in the european parliament for supporting us in condemning this initiative. many governments and parties pretend to forget that eastern european workers have made a significant contribution to the economies of western countries. i have considered, from the outset, an official position of the european commission to be mandatory, given that the eu's basic principles on the free movement of workers are being violated. there are many statements in europe that should raise question marks. we all know what the values of the european union are. freedom to travel and work are increasingly being questioned. the populism of some parties only serves to perpetuate a feeling of insecurity among european citizens working and residing in a particular member state and among the citizens of that state.
in writing. what is happening in the netherlands right now is dangerous. in the first 48 hours of the launch of this site, 22,000 complaints had already been registered. the incitement of hatred and violence against all eastern europeans could have dire repercussions. it's clear that the freedom party is trying to gain visibility through a defiant attitude, without thinking long term. what shocks me, however, is the passivity of the dutch government and the very brutal message in diplomatic terms of prime minister mark rutte. you can't ignore the eu ambassadors and the european commissioners and the heads of state. such initiatives must not go unsanctioned in a community of values such as the one we share.
member of the commission. − in addition to what i have already listed, i also raised the matter with the deputy managing director of the international monetary fund in washington. the imf was very interested to find out about the importance and the relevance of the social dialogue in this particular case, which concerns the trade unions in the european context. however, i think it is wrong to say that the response to the crisis in greece is not producing results – although, of course, at a time of recession we cannot be fully satisfied. it is an important result; there is now an agreement about a second package, which also includes a very significant debt reduction. greece needs that, and there is nothing more important at this stage than delivering it. the trade balance has improved significantly, and this raises hopes that greece is regaining competitiveness, though at a very heavy price: we do not deny that. however, in view of the very unsustainable situation which had developed in greece’s finances, i believe there is no easy or obvious way of ascertaining how – without a sacrifice – greece could go through the adjustment process and return to competitiveness and economic growth in the end.
one of the determining factors in ensuring the competitiveness of the member states and the union as a whole is the superior quality and availability of infrastructure. the importance of transport is fundamental to the european economy and society and, unfortunately, improving transport infrastructure is a real challenge, especially for the new member states. given that freight transport will increase by more than 80% and passenger transport by more than 50% by 2050, to what extent does the commission consider that community support, in the form of the structural funds and the connecting europe facility, will be sufficient to meet the challenges ahead? what other measures does the commission envisage to develop this sector, which is so important for the european economy and for the competitiveness of the member states?
vice-president of the commission. − i share your view that transport infrastructure is crucial for the growth and development of the various parts of the european union. the commission has made a budgetary proposal with a substantial increase in resources for transport and for the development of infrastructure in relation to the current financial perspectives. this is the connecting europe facility, and i would once again like to ask you to support this proposal when it is debated here. is that enough? of course this alone is not enough, but we consider that this tranche – probably eur 30 billion – of investment in transport can also facilitate and involve private-sector investment. this is only part of a wider package and of national budgets. if we follow through with our plans and implement the trans-european networks project in a meaningful way, we can make quite substantial progress. i believe in this project and if we implement it in its entirety we can avoid national fragmentation and confrontations. the cross-border, trans-european nature of this project can make a substantial contribution to the growth and development of various regions of europe, including the eastern part of the european union.
you did not answer my question as to whether you would consider other financial resources to finance transport and infrastructure, to contribute to regional development. and another question, since you mentioned ten-t. this concept hasn't been rethought in the last 15 years. since then, the european union has expanded from 15 to 27 member states. if we look at the ten-t map, in the new member states, it is almost non-existent. do you envisage rethinking the ten-t structure for transport investments in the next period?
in view of the current economic situation, the need for fiscal consolidation cannot be ignored. at the same time, swift and well-coordinated action across the board at eu level is needed to ensure growth and jobs. the economic recovery should be supported by the annual budget of the union. the institutions need to show responsibility and better organisation, and interinstitutional cooperation is essential. i believe it is important that the austerity measures adopted so far be complemented by actions aimed at increasing investment and stability. the economic potential of smes, which is the basis of economic growth, should not be neglected. i believe that collective efforts need to be strengthened if measures taken at eu level are to facilitate the implementation of the budget.
i would first like to welcome the fact that the proposed report insists very convincingly on the need to stimulate competitiveness, innovation and small and medium-sized enterprises and also to support young people. we must certainly look in these directions for solutions to economic recovery. the clear definition of the objectives to be pursued and the budgetary implications of these objectives are strong signals as to how the budget of future years should also look. the european union has big ambitions and needs a budget to match. i do not agree with the wording of article 9. i believe that parliament should not simply take note of this initiative of the commission but also ask itself whether it is the right one, given that these are funds that have not yet been allocated to concrete projects but are already committed according to the priorities and programmes of the member states.
according to unicef, an estimated 158 million children between the ages of 5 and 14 are working, or one in six children worldwide. millions of children are working in conditions that endanger their health, practically exposing them to various harmful chemicals. in west africa alone, more than 100,000 children are working in the most difficult conditions in the cocoa fields, and 10,000 children are victims of human trafficking. low marketing prices for cocoa push farmers to use child labour, with profound consequences for children's health and school performance. i believe that access to education is a fundamental condition for reducing poverty and ending the exploitation of children. the union has at its disposal several instruments to put an end to these practices and i would remind you here of the possibility of suspending trade preference agreements under the gsp and of the need for all trade agreements with third countries to contain provisions on the elimination of child labour.
if we look closely at the figures on the prevalence of diabetes in the population of the european union, whether we're talking about type 1 or type 2 diabetes, it's clear that serious efforts are needed to combat diabetes. i want to emphasize prevention, both because prevention is the best in terms of cost-effectiveness, and because, unfortunately, in diabetes and other chronic diseases, right now we're focusing more on treatment and less on prevention. promoting a healthy lifestyle and tackling risk factors are key to tackling this disease. the fact that we are now discussing the horizon 2020 research programme is also a great opportunity to improve the system, to better coordinate the diabetes research effort and to ensure the necessary funding and infrastructure. we need a european strategy that focuses on prevention, early and effective diagnosis, management of this disease, public information and research.
member of the commission. − mr president, baroness ludford and mr papanikolaou also rightly mentioned diabetes type 1, which raises a couple of related issues. the first is early identification, because this allows treatment to start as early as possible. the issue of early diagnosis, as well as the issues that mr papanikolaou mentioned, could be addressed within the reflection process on chronic diseases. certainly, training for medical doctors to ensure effective early diagnosis across the eu is crucial. with regard to type 2 diabetes, i understand the pressure to develop a disease-by-disease strategy, but i believe that a commission strategy on nutrition-, weight- and obesity-related health issues is still very relevant in terms of supporting national strategies in this area. this was a very good debate, and the commission will definitely continue to play its part in fighting diabetes.
member of the commission. − mr president, as i understood it, it was type 1 diabetes, but that does not exclude that in general we should really increase awareness of it, so i take the point fully.
president of the council. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. i'm not going to let you do this. thank you for an important and, i think, very good debate today. it is clear that there is a need to focus attention on diabetes and other chronic diseases in the member states, in the commission and, of course, here in the european parliament. i would also like to thank mr busuttil, mr ludford, mr kukovič and mr schaldemose for their recognition of the efforts of the danish presidency in this area. i am glad to say that it is the current trio of presidencies, poland, denmark and cyprus, which is particularly concerned with this issue. under the danish presidency we have chosen chronic diseases, with diabetes as the model disease, as a special priority area, and my presence here today on behalf of the danish government is also an expression of this commitment. i would therefore like to thank the european parliament for the opportunity to work together to find solutions for the many people affected by this disease. together with the commission, parliament and the member states, we can improve the quality of life of the many people affected by diabetes today and work together to prevent millions of europeans and their families from suffering from the disease in the future. i would therefore also say that this is an extremely important debate which continues today and i would like to give my assurance that the danish presidency will do everything possible, all the way to the end of our term and in cooperation with subsequent presidencies, to keep this important subject on the european agenda. i wish parliament, the commission and the member states a good working spirit and look forward to working together to the benefit of millions of europeans in all our member states.
in writing. – although there is no cure for diabetes, it can often be prevented. in 2007, the commission published its strategy on nutrition and obesity, which emphasised how clear and accurate information about food can help prevent diseases such as diabetes. so, five years on, what has the strategy achieved? it has promoted voluntary codes and a self-regulatory approach to the advertising of foodstuffs to children. however, according to the commission’s own progress report, some member states have not yet adopted a voluntary code, whilst others have no mechanism in place to check whether their code is being implemented. unhealthy foods which increase the risk of obesity and diabetes are still being aggressively marketed to children. the strategy on nutrition also highlighted the role of the health claims regulation in ensuring that consumers are not misled by inaccurate or confusing claims. but this regulation cannot function properly because the commission has not yet proposed key elements of it. so the health claims legislation is not yet in operation and, in the meantime, junk food continues to be advertised to children. the commission and the member states must re-think their approach to information and education about food if they are serious about tackling diabetes.
in writing. i believe that since approximately 10% of the total population of the union suffers from diabetes, we must take a global leadership role in finding the most appropriate solutions to reduce the incidence of diabetes. among the things we need to do is allocate additional funds to diabetes prevention measures in the population and identify the most appropriate measures to improve healthy consumer behaviour. the first steps in this direction are already being taken, and i am referring in particular to the regulation on nutrition and health claims on foodstuffs, but also to the reform of the common agricultural policy, which represents an opportunity to increase the population's access to healthier food. in addition to prevention measures, we must consider early detection of the disease and, by implication, the development of appropriate tools to address social inequalities among populations at risk. to do this, we need to have access to data on chronic diseases in the member states and we need to work together because only together can we overcome the scientific challenges. in addition, we need to pay more attention to education and its role in choosing the healthiest consumption patterns.
the lack of co-financing capacity is undoubtedly one of the most important obstacles to the effective use of european funds, including the european fisheries fund, at the moment. the financial crisis, through the budgetary constraints it has caused, has brought additional difficulties to the situation of european states below the overall eu average. the commission's proposals for all categories of funds are therefore good news for the member states concerned. i must stress that another difficult problem remains unresolved, however, namely the lack of resources for private co-financing of investments. this is true for all categories of european funds, and especially for those for small businesses and agriculture. in this regard, we need credit facilities and public guarantees in support of potential beneficiaries. simplification of procedures is also essential.
we welcome the increase of the interim payments by 10 percentage points over the co-financing rate applicable to each priority axis. romania and bulgaria became members of the union in 2007, thus extending the common fisheries policy to the black sea. these countries have accepted and fulfilled all the requirements for joining the common fisheries policy and are now eligible for support through the european fisheries fund. with the exception of bilateral agreements, there is no global agreement on the regional management of fish stocks in the black sea. the commission's support is needed for the development of regional dialogue with a view to the development of a common marine strategy in the black sea area, involving the other black sea littoral states. considers it appropriate to establish a black sea advisory council as a platform for communication and technical cooperation between fisheries stakeholders. if a basic sharing agreement continues to remain in abeyance, there is a risk of resource collapse and the economic damage that has already occurred in the fisheries for certain resources will spread widely.
it is not recommended to consume red meat in excess. according to some studies, it increases the risk of cancer and heart disease. however, i welcome the compromise reached in the wto arbitration on the so-called 'hormone beef dispute' between the us and the eu. the eu will be able to achieve compliance with the phytosanitary criteria for beef, which has been the cause of conflict for the last 13 years, and the us will gradually allow the import of certain categories of european products, especially traditional ones. among the first products to be included in the european database in this field was a romanian product, the topoloveni magiun. commissioner, how will the european quality system for agricultural products be applied in relation to the usa and, in particular, how will the protected geographical indications system be implemented?
in writing. i welcome the conclusion of a memorandum of understanding between the eu and the us, as well as between the eu and canada. i believe that it is in the interest of european producers to complete them on time. the eu and us economies account for almost half of global gdp. the transatlantic partnership is vital to europe's economy, trade and jobs, and trade disputes hamper cooperation between the two trading partners. at the same time, the european parliament's resolution of 8 march 2011 calling for the end of sanctions imposed by the usa and canada on products from the eu and for clear guarantees on beef imports to be aligned with the food safety requirements set by european legislation must be respected. in this respect, i welcome the proposal that the european executive could suspend the union's annual tariff quota if the agreement is not implemented or maintained by the united states and canada.
i support the amendment of the 26 council legislative acts on the common commercial policy in order to align them to the new system of delegated and implementing acts. i welcome the more effective exercise of the commission's implementing powers. it will also help to increase the effectiveness of the common commercial policy and enable the union to become more competitive on the world stage. at the same time, i welcome the commission's initiative to highlight the changes brought about by the lisbon treaty in the legal framework and in the institutional balance. i support the commission's proposal to use the examination procedure in most cases involving implementing acts. safety measures occupy an important place in the present proposal and i would also like to stress their need in this context.
in writing. trade policy is an important area for the european union and the member states, which is why any regulation that improves its implementation, either at national and european level or in relation to third countries, is beneficial for all partners. this report builds on the changes brought about by the treaty of lisbon to the legal and institutional framework and allows for the systematic transposition of those changes into secondary legislation in the field of the common commercial policy. i believe that the entry into force of its provisions will enable the commission to exercise its implementing powers more effectively, which will lead to a more effective common commercial policy. in addition, both the partners involved and citizens will be able to understand the procedures applicable in the framework of trade policy more quickly, and the application of the horizontal regulation will increase the overall level of transparency in the application of trade policy.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, before starting my speech here i would also like to pay tribute and to extend condolences and grief from the presidency to the victims and the families involved in that terrible accident. i believe that everyone in this chamber feels for the victims and the families today, and we will of course honour them later on, as has been stated. i believe that is very appropriate. on behalf of the danish presidency of the council, it is a great pleasure for me to participate in this debate and to review progress on enlargement and the accession negotiations. first of all let me underline how much we appreciate parliament’s interest in and support for the enlargement process. your active and constructive contribution to the wider debate on enlargement is highly valued and appreciated. i would also like to begin these three debates today by highlighting the resilience of the eu enlargement policy. this is sometimes overlooked, not least in times of great economic hardship and uncertainty. last december we were able to sign the accession treaty with croatia, which is now in the process of being ratified by national parliaments. this should allow croatia to join the union in july 2013. only two weeks ago, on 1 march, the european council granted candidate status to serbia. both achievements show that the political momentum behind the eu’s enlargement policy is driven by the power to transform and bring about positive change. the process has brought prosperity and, even more importantly, it has proved to be a positive factor for peace and security. i would like to turn now to the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. since december 2005 the country has been a candidate for membership of the eu. the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is important in the region, being fully engaged in regional initiatives such as the regional cooperation council and the south-east european cooperation process. it also contributes to the eu althea mission in bosnia and herzegovina. at its meeting on 5 december 2010, the council welcomed the further progress made by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia in the area of reform, as well as the fact that it is fulfilling its commitment under the stabilisation and association agreement. the council broadly shares the commission’s assessment of the country's sufficient fulfilment of the political criteria. since the early elections of june last year, which followed a boycott of the parliament, the governing coalition has been stable. let me briefly mention the progress which has been made on issues such as the reform of the parliament, the judiciary, public administration and respect for – and protection of – minorities, before i address the key challenges that remain. we welcome the improvement, compared to 2008, of the handling of the parliamentary elections on 5 june 2011, which were competitive, transparent and well administrated throughout the country. naturally the government needs to implement fully the conclusions and recommendations of the osce/odihr election observation mission, particularly regarding the separation between state and party activities during the campaign period. we expect the 2013 local elections to be handled equally well as – if not better than – the 2011 elections. we also welcome the fact that the government coalition has resolved earlier difficulties and has strengthened internal cooperation. it is important that the momentum of the reform process be maintained. freedom of expression in the media remains a matter of concern. we welcome the opening of a dialogue on this issue. the closure, on grounds of tax evasion, of a major television channel and three newspapers which were critical of the government has raised concerns about the proportionality and selectivity of the procedure and has reduced the diversity of the media landscape. as for judicial reform, some positive progress has been achieved. this is also the case for the amendments to the legal framework in relation to the fight against corruption. the adoption of a new criminal procedure code is a significant step forward in the fight against crime and corruption but requires further institutional work in order to be fully implemented. corruption remains a serious problem which needs to be addressed. further progress has also been made in the area of cultural rights and minorities. the tenth anniversary of the ohrid framework agreement provided a good opportunity for enhanced dialogue between the communities in the country. both the letter and the spirit of the ohrid framework agreement must be respected by all. integration of the roma in the education system has improved, but further measures need to be taken, as the roma continue to face very difficult living conditions and discrimination, in particular regarding civil registration. in the area of human rights, we are concerned about cases of ill treatment by special police forces as well as discrimination against the lesbian, gay, bi-sexual and transgender community. this needs to be addressed. overall, the developments in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia are encouraging. the council has noted that the commission has reiterated its recommendation that accession negotiations should be opened. we stand ready to return to this during our presidency. let me end by recalling that maintaining good neighbourly relations – which has to include a negotiated and mutually-accepted solution with the un to the main issue – is essential. we very much hope that the ongoing high-level dialogue will yield a positive outcome as soon as possible.
member of the commission. − mr president, there could hardly be a greater tragedy than when lives of young ones are taken away. let me join you and others in an expression of deepest solidarity and grief. i am delighted to be discussing the former yugoslav republic of macedonia with you one week after i attended the hearing in parliament hosted by mr howitt. today will be yet another opportunity to take stock of the developments in the country during the last year. i would like to thank especially mr howitt for the high-quality report we are discussing today. i am pleased that the european parliament motion for a resolution broadly shares the commission findings in the 2011 progress report. once again – and the third time in a row – there is a consensus between us that accession negotiations should start. as you are aware, the council has not acted on the recommendation but has stated its willingness to return to the issue during the danish presidency. it is in this context that i am travelling to skopje later today to launch the high-level accession dialogue. our aim is to move the country closer to the european union and to keep the european union agenda as the driving force of the transformation in the country. it is by no means a substitute for actual negotiations. the dialogue will take forward the reform agenda in the country by achieving a clear agreement on the reforms to be taken in five key policy areas. firstly, as regards the rule of law – which is a policy area of strategic importance to the european union – we will associate the country with the new approach which is currently being followed with montenegro. secondly, regarding freedom of expression, the commission and parliament agree on the importance of this in the enlargement process. as a result of our joint efforts on this, i am pleased that the first steps to address our concerns have been taken by the government in skopje. a dialogue between the state and journalists has been established. one of the key points discussed was the decriminalisation of defamation. i therefore very much welcome the announcement by prime minister gruevski and deputy prime minister arifi that defamation will be fully decriminalised. thirdly, public administration reforms must go forward, which means implementing the 2011 reform strategy. fourthly, electoral reform needs to be completed. the fifth area is the development of a functioning market economy. the commission will continue to support the country in addressing all these challenges through targeted financial cooperation. i have taken good note of parliament’s suggestions concerning the ipa programme and the civil society facility in this regard. the commission also agrees with your view of the importance of good neighbourly relations between the country and its neighbours and the need to increase mutual understanding. we are closely monitoring developments in this field and will assess them again in the 2012 progress report. finally, you have requested that the european union should be ready to assist in resolving the name issue. the united nations has a clear mandate to mediate on the name issue between the country and greece. we are helping to create a climate conducive to compromise, and we are encouraging the countries to find one. for the european union to become engaged in a more substantial way there would have to be a clear demand by both parties. as i have said on many occasions, it is a political reality that a solution to the name issue will greatly facilitate further progress in european integration. i welcome the fact that the two sides are re-engaging and strongly encourage them to build on the progress made in 2011.
on behalf of the alde group. i want to thank mr. howitt for his cooperation. i think we have managed together to achieve an objective report, but i cannot help but confess the frustration i have this year too, because the negotiations with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia have not started. i think macedonia can be a specific case of questioning our efficiency and motivation for the accession process of some member states. i do not think that the name dispute - and this is especially true in relation to the decision of the international court of justice in the hague - can continue to be an obstacle to the european path of this country. beyond the criticisms that can be directed at this member state and beyond, we must recognize that there are specific situations in the states that are members of the european union and that are facing situations of the same nature; i am referring to freedom of the press, the efficiency of the judiciary, the status of a functioning market economy. but beyond these things, i think that macedonia's european path should not be defeated or demoted with palliatives, as we are trying to do at the moment. i have proposed in this report an arbitration in which the european union should actively participate in respecting the judgments of the courts and in trying to find legally objective solutions so that a country's european path is not defeated. beyond these things, i think one thing that is essential for macedonia is judicial reform, where progress has been made, significant progress. of course, they must continue, but we cannot ignore the way the laws have been dealt with regarding the code of criminal procedure, the status and independence of judges. we also cannot ignore the fact that progress has been made on the ohrid agreement. ..the president interrupts the speaker)
all countries wishing to join the eu are obliged to respect the copenhagen criteria, including the rights of minorities. this is something that needs to be given special attention when examining the integration efforts of the western balkan countries, as we all know the ethnic background and not so distant past of the region. european integration of the region should only take place after a reassuring, lasting and satisfactory settlement of interethnic relations for all national communities. i say this with regret because the people of the region would welcome an early accession and would also have the means to settle disputes after accession. but practical experience shows that the problems of national minorities living in eu member states are not addressed by the eu's common institutions, and the copenhagen criteria are unfortunately only binding until accession.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, honourable members, commissioner füle, let us now turn to iceland and underline a number of points which are also duly reflected in your resolution. on 5 december last year, the council welcomed the commission’s progress report on iceland and took good note of its findings and recommendations. iceland has indeed made good progress over the last year and has continued to do so in the first months of 2012. the process of screening the acquis is almost complete, and there is good momentum in the negotiations. last week i had the opportunity to go to iceland, where i met with leaders in icelandic politics, including the prime minister and the foreign minister and other leaders. i made it very clear that we want to continue this process in a very constructive dialogue. due to its membership of the european economic area and schengen, iceland has come to the negotiations with another starting point. in a large number of policy fields, iceland already lives up to – or is very close to – the acquis. in this regard it is worth noticing that we managed to simultaneously open and close the very symbolic chapter 23 on judicial matters. i would also like to add that iceland benefits from a very professional administration and a very committed and professional negotiating team, also at political level. this impression was strongly confirmed when i met with the icelandic leadership a short while ago. the council is committed to moving the negotiation process forward. as the presidency we take this mandate very seriously and will push those negotiations forward as much as possible within the merit-based approach. it is clear to all that there can be no shortcuts to membership for any countries and that iceland will, of course, have to satisfy the same criteria in the enlargement negotiations as the other candidate countries. in december last year the council noted with satisfaction iceland’s progress in stabilising its economy. the recovery from the economic and financial collapse in 2008 and 2009 is well under way. this is not least due to responsible macroeconomic policies and tough decisions on structural and welfare reforms. also due to this, iceland successfully completed its imf programme in august 2011 and has just recently seen itself upgraded by the rating agency fitch. iceland still faces challenges. but with the current economic outlook, we are convinced that iceland will be able to cope with competitive pressures and market forces within the union over the medium term. let me move on to the state of the actual negotiations. we have now almost completed the screening process, which is a process that examines iceland’s level of alignment with the acquis. the council has already received and dealt with all screening reports except those from the fishery chapters. we expect to receive that report around easter. as for the negotiations of the 35 negotiation chapters, 11 chapters have now been opened and eight have been provisionally closed, thanks to the efforts of previous presidencies. this is a remarkable result, which underlines iceland’s very high level of preparedness for membership. it also represents momentum to be upheld, which we will do everything possible to achieve. the next accession conference with iceland at deputy level is planned for 30 march. this should allow us to take stock of progress and send clear signals as to iceland’s and the eu’s shared commitment to uphold momentum. we hope to open at least three new chapters concerning competition policy, energy, and foreign security and defence policy, and also to provisionally close some of those chapters. the accession conference at ministerial level planned for june will confirm the results of the accession conference in march and sustain the momentum in the negotiations by opening and provisionally closing a further number of chapters. all in all, we expect negotiations to continue at very good speed this semester. some more challenging negotiations, such as those on fisheries, lie ahead of us. however, given the commitment and focus from the icelandic side, we are very confident that, with the right amount of goodwill and political determination, substantial progress can be achieved in these areas as well. i am convinced of the commitment of all parties to bring the negotiations forward. in conclusion, the aim of the presidency is to sustain momentum in the negotiations and bring them forward as much as possible. this is a task that we can only achieve with the support and cooperation of the member states, the commission and, not least, this parliament, as this debate will show. let me also, on behalf of the danish presidency and the member states, thank this parliament and in particular your rapporteur, mr preda, for the work done on this issue. your continued commitment to enlargement is vital to its success – as is, of course, your particular role in promoting popular support in the eu for this cause. the resolution on iceland and its endorsement in plenary is indeed a forceful political and strategic message. i also believe that, through contacts with fellow parliamentarians from the althingi in iceland, this house will be able to make an important and much-needed contribution to enhancing understanding of the eu, the values that we share and the way we work.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is a great pleasure for me to contribute today to your debate on iceland’s accession and to hear your views on this ambitious project. i would like to seize this opportunity to congratulate the rapporteur, mr preda, on his comprehensive report, which – in my view – is right to the point and well balanced. since the official opening of the negotiations with iceland in july 2010, 11 chapters have been opened, out of which eight have now been provisionally closed. this well reflects iceland’s own merits, its advanced stage of integration with the european union as a member of the european economic area, and the proper functioning of the established enlargement methodology. let me also point out that the most recent internal market scoreboard of the european free trade area members of the european economic area shows that iceland is transposing the relevant acquis much better than the average member state. with 0.5%, it is well below the 1% transposition deficit target set by the european council of march 2007. just to add for comparison: the average european union member state transposition deficit is 1.2%. the commission, together with the icelandic authorities and the danish and cypriot presidencies, is working to build on this momentum to open as many chapters of the acquis as possible in 2012. all the screening reports have now been presented to the council with the exception of the one on fisheries which is close to completion. we hope to open up to four chapters at the next accession conference on 30 march. let us be clear: 2012 will be a decisive year as we are getting ready to start, as soon as possible, negotiations on some of the core chapters, such as on fisheries, agriculture, food safety and environment. in doing so, we will always privilege quality over speed. let me now briefly turn to issues of particular interest that were raised by christian preda in his report. iceland was among the first countries to undergo the detrimental effects of the financial crisis and has imposed a number of austerity measures. thanks to its effort, the economic recovery has continued over the last months with an estimated growth of over 3% for 2012. iceland should be commended for these efforts. let me briefly mention the pre-accession financial support measures that we are providing to iceland. a total indicative envelope of some eur 30 million is foreseen for the years 2011-2013, to support strengthening the country’s administrative capacity. the taiex instrument is fully operational in a wide range of acquis-related fields. we are also providing the pre-accession support for information activities. there is a need for a well-informed and balanced debate about the accession process within the european union and in iceland. i therefore very much welcome the opening early this year of the european union information centre in reykjavik. the centre will play an important role in enabling the icelandic population to make an informed decision on their european future. most opinion polls indicate that the majority of icelanders are in favour of continuing the accession talks and are willing to exercise their right of decision on a final deal. in spite of the diverging views on european union accession that exist in iceland, the progress achieved since our last meeting strongly illustrates iceland’s commitment to its european union aspiration and its determination to overcome the challenges ahead.
on behalf of the epp group. we are now in the second year of a progress report on iceland's accession to the union, and quite frankly, progress is visible. if at this time last year no negotiating chapters had been opened or closed, we can now speak, as both minister wammen and commissioner füle have said, of eleven negotiating chapters that have been opened, eight of which have been closed provisionally. over the past year, i have also seen the debate on iceland's accession to the union intensify, reflected, among other things, in the reactions to paragraph 6 of the resolution which we are voting on in a few hours. the commission has also taken note of the fact that the icelandic authorities have not yet taken the necessary steps to ensure that the accession negotiations are concluded. the recent discussion about iceland's proposed adoption of the canadian dollar or the japanese yen as its own currency actually shows that the icelandic public needs an informed debate about the pros and cons of joining the european union. in this context, i appreciated the intervention of the prime minister of iceland, who stated that the choice is, in fact, between being a full member of the union and of the euro area and, respectively, renouncing sovereignty by unilaterally adopting a foreign currency. so i end by stressing the importance of the debate, because both icelandic and european citizens need to know each other and want to be part of a community.
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate mr preda for his very good but also realistic report. the 2011 enlargement report on iceland clearly demonstrates iceland’s advanced level of preparation. the closure of eight negotiation chapters is most welcome, but the challenging negotiations are yet to come, and i mean here chapters such as fisheries and agriculture, which will need special attention given that circumstances in iceland are different from those of other european countries. greater importance should also be given to negotiations on chapters such as regional policy, the environment and economic and monetary policy. i saw that according to the recent poll the majority of icelanders still oppose eu membership, since 67% are against and only 33% in favour of accession, but my remark is that in the last year support for the eu in both candidate and member states has been very low, and therefore iceland should continue to remain committed to the conclusion of the accession talks.
mr president, i want to welcome the report by doris pack. it is realistic and balanced, but it is difficult to accept paragraph 27 of the report because it is not – shall i say – ‘politically correct’ to label an entire community as extremist. i believe for all of us bosnia and herzegovina is important because we must avoid the failure of a state. the crucial issue for this state is to make the appropriate constitutional reforms to benefit the entire community, because it is multicultural and multi-ethnic. how we deal with this community depends on us, and for this reason we must back increased eu support for bosnia and herzegovina. another issue that i want to tackle is the question of impunity. all of us know that in bosnia and herzegovina there have been a lot of war crimes in the form of rape, but impunity still exists. i would like to welcome the current measures, but i consider they are not enough for a realistic approach. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
answer to the blue card. nothing ever goes away if it's mentioned in a report. extremism is a threat, but it is not a european approach to consider entire communities as extremist, as long as only their representatives are manifesting themselves as such. sure, saudi arabia supports the wahhabi community in bosnia and herzegovina, but i hope that this is not generated by an extremist approach of this state.
i voted for this resolution because the exploitation of children in west african agriculture is a highly sensitive issue and the scale of the phenomenon is difficult to quantify. widespread poverty, conflict and poor harvests in recent years have aggravated the situation. last year, tensions in côte d'ivoire led to the freezing of 200,000 tonnes in production and the price rise of up to nine per cent a day on the euronext paris exchange. today, the eu is dependent on cocoa imports from countries such as ghana and côte d'ivoire, but trade relations should not be an obstacle to cooperation with interpol in this area, especially in relation to trafficking of children. and the widespread implementation of the concept of fair trade would ensure a decent standard of living for parents and a chance for children to get an education.
i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the fight against diabetes must be intensified by all means. i am referring here to prevention in the first place. given that by 2030 more than 16% of european citizens will be affected by this disease, education is needed. unfortunately, diabetes is an incurable disease, but there are a multitude of ways to prevent it from developing. europe must therefore invest more in promoting sport and encouraging a healthy lifestyle. another important element is the correct and timely diagnosis of both type 1 and type 2 diabetes. this would ensure proper treatment of patients and reduce the cost of subsequent complications.
i voted in favour of this report because i want stability in the balkans and relations with the european union help to ensure it. skopje has made some progress on democratic reforms. however, they must be continued, especially in areas such as the judiciary and the fight against corruption. i also stress the need for more transparency on public spending and the funding of political parties. however, i appreciate the position of the macedonian authorities to consider multiculturalism as the social and political model of the country. the romanian minority is recognised and enjoys fair treatment. i point to the progress made towards roma integration in the education system and representation in the public service. however, i would point out that continuous efforts are needed to improve the situation of this community.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement. this country could become an expansion success story. its integration can bring economic benefits, but also a strengthening of the union's external policy, including with regard to the transatlantic relationship. it would also contribute to the development of the arctic dimension of regional policy. the commission will continue to monitor the progress made in the implementation of the acquis, in particular the implementation of the acquis in the area of financial services, and will continue to monitor the progress made in the implementation of the acquis in the area of financial services. at the same time, due attention should be paid to public information and communication, given the divergences in iceland on the european integration project. finally, i would like to welcome iceland's decision to lift the labour market restrictions for romanian workers. i believe that it contributes to the consolidation of the european economic area.
i voted in favour of this report because the prolonged political deadlock has affected bosnia and herzegovina's progress as well as its european path. i express my hope that the formation of the government will allow the continuation of the reforms necessary for the consolidation of democracy, the rule of law and economic development. the positive domestic atmosphere provides an opportunity for this country to move forward in its relationship with the eu. i hope the opportunity is taken. the union has an important role to play in this regard: to identify ways to encourage positive developments. at the same time, however, they must avoid taking positions that could produce internal tensions in this country. i welcome the progress made in sarajevo in improving the situation of the roma, but it must be continued. i would remind you of the importance of fully implementing the mining strategy, on which i tabled an amendment, to ensure the full security of all citizens.
in writing. − the global economic and financial crisis has affected european countries significantly. the level of income of citizens has fallen considerably, while many others are facing the unfortunate situation of job loss, at a time when the signals coming from the economic environment are not necessarily encouraging and the process of creating new jobs does not seem to be accelerating. in these circumstances, i consider it essential to provide european sectoral support for economies in difficulty. improving the process of cooperation between states and european authorities, together with taking concrete action to improve the absorption capacity of member states, may be one of the solutions that help to overcome the effects of the economic and financial crisis. sector-specific funding, together with the possibility of specific, temporary and limited derogations from european regulations, are appropriate solutions to the challenges facing eu citizens and economies today. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the measures proposed in the text must be implemented as soon as possible. the prolonged economic crisis has accentuated the productivity gaps in fisheries across the union. the increase in funding was therefore welcomed to encourage investment, particularly in regional projects. however, specific measures are needed to facilitate the rapid absorption at national level of the amounts offered by the commission. my country is one of the beneficiaries of this fund for both marine and inland fisheries. the report states that the proposed financial measures will apply retroactively from 1 january 2010. reducing red tape through these initiatives will encourage the modernisation of the fisheries sector as well as the diversification of activities in fishing communities.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has manifested itself and continues to manifest itself in the various eu member states. the fish market in romania is small compared to eu countries, with the total turnover of the sector estimated at around eur 40 million. romania currently has around 340 000 fish farms and 48 trout farms. private beneficiaries of european fisheries fund (eff) funding have also been severely affected by credit constraints in their home country, resulting in a low absorption rate of available funds. in addition to measures facilitating a higher absorption of eff funds by member states, i believe that a reorientation of the priorities of the eff itself is required, which should focus primarily on supporting productive activities and the development of coastal communities. for these reasons, i welcome the commission's proposal to increase community co-financing for the countries experiencing the greatest difficulties, together with a corresponding reduction in the national effort in the use of funds.
in writing. − although belated, the commission's proposal on the european fisheries fund is welcome. given its urgency, i believe that its approval at first reading, as presented by the commission, despite its limitations, is a good omen.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the european fisheries fund because i believe it is important to have a sustainable fisheries strategy and because any change to the regulation to facilitate the rapid implementation of programmes financed by european funds will have an immediate and real impact on the economies of the member states most affected by the crisis. as the financial and economic crisis has increasingly depleted national financial resources, i believe it is vital that we take the necessary measures to ensure the sound execution of the operational programmes. unfortunately, the austerity measures imposed at national level have had the immediate effect of significantly reducing the national co-financing capacity, seriously affecting first of all the beneficiaries, the citizens, and implicitly leading to a low absorption rate of the funds. the commission's proposal is therefore welcome, as we need to help local, regional and national authorities to access as much of the european funds to which they are entitled as possible, but the commission must also require national governments to report regularly on the use of this money so that we can ensure that it is used in the most efficient way.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, which allows the implementation of an important commission proposal to unblock the use of european funds in the fisheries sector. the financial crisis has caused additional difficulties in securing co-financing in some member states, due to the lack of liquidity it has generated. this is the most important obstacle to the good use of all categories of european funds, together with the inability to ensure, in many cases, private co-financing of investments.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the european fisheries fund (eff) as regards certain provisions relating to financial management for certain member states affected or threatened by serious difficulties relating to their financial stability. pressure on national financial resources is increasing and further measures are needed to alleviate this pressure through the optimal and maximum use of eff funding. i voted in favour of the proposal to increase community co-financing for countries experiencing financial difficulties and to reduce the corresponding national effort in the use of funds during the period in which they benefit from the support mechanisms, in order to guarantee that these countries (ireland, hungary, latvia, portugal and romania) will continue to implement the eff programmes. the regulation proposes to increase by 10% the co-financing rates applicable to the priority axis of the programmes in the case of new certified expenditure declared during the period in question. when the supplement is applied, the co-financing rate of the programme may not exceed by more than 10 percentage points the maximum ceilings laid down in article 53 (3) of the eff regulation (75% and 50% for regions eligible and non-eligible under the convergence objective respectively).
in writing. - i voted in favour of the commission's proposal to open an autonomous tariff quota for imports of high-quality beef. i have followed this proposal for a regulation closely as the shadow rapporteur of my political group in the ep, the progressive alliance of socialists and democrats. i consider it beneficial to reach a memorandum of understanding between the eu and the us, as well as between the eu and canada, on beef imports. at the same time, the european union must remain vigilant and defend the rights of european consumers. the european executive should therefore suspend the annual tariff quota if the agreement is not implemented or maintained by the united states or canada. we must ensure that imports of hormone-treated beef do not reach the european market.
in writing. i have decided to vote in favour of this report on the regulation of imports of high-quality beef. the dispute over hormone-treated beef has had a negative impact on transatlantic trade in agricultural products for more than two decades. in 1988, the european union banned imports of beef and beef products treated with certain growth stimulating hormones for consumer protection and food safety reasons. in 1996, the united states and canada challenged this ban under the wto dispute settlement system and were subsequently authorised to impose trade sanctions against agricultural products imported from the european union. since 1999, the us and canada have imposed retaliatory tariffs on a wide range of european products. the proposal contains protocols which i consider crucial and which will be implemented in several phases, in accordance with american and canadian criteria. the impact on the european market is still limited, but failure to adopt the regulation could lead to further trade sanctions against the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, taking into account the obligation imposed on exporters in the united states and canada not to treat with hormones cattle whose meat they wish to sell on the european market. in the interests of consumers, but also of increasing the competitiveness of european agriculture, i support free trade, but only on condition that exporters from partner countries are obliged to respect the same high quality, environmental and food safety standards as european producers. this principle must be taken into account when concluding any trade agreement and with regard to all aspects of european agricultural and environmental legislation.
in writing. − trade policy is one of the main pillars of the european union's relations with third countries. the achievement of a common trade policy was part of the original plan for european economic integration, so that the eu's (initially the eec's) trade policy has been broadly common to the rest of the world since 1968, with the achievement of the customs union. this proposal for a commission regulation aims to replace the decision-making procedures on implementing measures under 26 delegated and implementing regulations. as regards those regulations, these are mainly provisions allowing the use of trade defence measures. the commission proposal provides for adjustments only where specifically regulated council decisions were previously applicable. the commission does not propose to amend the references in the regulations to the old comitology procedure based on council decision 1999/468/ec. in this regard, the commission has indicated on several occasions that these adaptations should be made in a second proposal for a regulation, namely the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy as regards the delegation of power to adopt certain measures (omnibus ii).
in writing. − the vote in favour of the report on the common commercial policy was necessary to bring european trade policies into line. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009, trade policy became an area of exclusive responsibility of the european union. through the report, 26 regulations are brought into line with the treaty, by delegating powers to the european commission and by establishing control procedures by eu member states. these include, for example, the regulation on the trade arrangements applicable to certain goods resulting from the processing of agricultural products or the regulation on trade in certain goods which could be used for capital punishment, torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment.
in writing. − the commission proposal for a regulation aims to replace the decision-making procedures on implementing measures under 26 regulations with delegated and implementing acts. until now, thanks to these special decision-making mechanisms, european trade policy has been broadly and explicitly exempted from the existing comitology procedure. the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon brought an end to this special regime and the commission will thus become responsible for all executive decisions in the field of trade policy. the aim of this proposal is to integrate the commission's responsibilities into all regulations in the field of the common commercial policy. i consider this report to be a balanced, well-conceived document which respects the economic and legislative interests of all parties involved and the institutional interests of the three european institutions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending certain regulations on the common commercial policy in relation to the procedures for adopting certain measures. the regulation aims to replace the decision-making procedures on implementing measures under 26 delegated and implementing acts. as regards those regulations, these are mainly provisions allowing the use of trade defence measures. the report recommends the use of delegated acts under those regulations in the following cases: - for amending or adapting one or more annexes to the regulation concerned and - for adopting detailed provisions on the specific transposition of individual articles. in all cases, these are non-legislative delegated acts of general scope which supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of the legislative act, in accordance with article 290 (1) tfeu. only the instrument of delegation ensures the control of the commission by parliament and the council. the report calls on the commission to submit biannual reports to parliament on the application and implementation of the agreements, including information on the activities of the various bodies responsible for monitoring the implementation of the agreements and the fulfilment of the obligations arising from them, including the obligations relating to trade barriers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, but i regret the wording in article 9, where the question is wrongly posed. the article states that parliament 'takes note' of the commission's proposal to redirect appropriations worth €82 billion 'which have not yet been programmed'. in reality, these are funds that have not yet been allocated to concrete projects, but are already committed according to member states' priorities and programmes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the general guidelines for the preparation of the 2013 budget - section iii - commission. i voted against amendment no 1 because i believe that economic recovery requires measures to strengthen solidarity and to stimulate sustainable growth and employment. we insist on the need for concrete measures, in particular using the eu budget as a common instrument. i voted against amendment no 3 because i believe that it is particularly important to promote entrepreneurship and business creation through concrete actions and that the necessary resources should be allocated to this end. i voted for amendment no 23 because i believe that strengthening eib support for smes and infrastructure should be considered a key priority. i voted for amendment no 15 because i believe that the challenges of rising unemployment and poverty in the eu need to be addressed as a matter of urgency, according to the 'european platform against poverty and social exclusion'. i voted for amendment no 13 because i believe that automatic sanctions and the initiation of judicial proceedings by the commission in the event of an excessive deficit procedure will not contribute to the exit from the crisis, in the absence of measures aimed at economic growth and job creation.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation to strengthen the fight against organised crime is of particular importance for the safety and security of european citizens and supports one of the main objectives of the european union, namely to create an area of freedom, security and justice without internal borders, in which crime is prevented and combated. that is why i believe that the establishment of a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering will help the european union to anticipate and counter these threats at national and international level. the tasks of this committee will include analysing and evaluating the implementation of union legislation in this area to ensure that union law and policies are based on data and real threat assessments. it will also be responsible for monitoring and reviewing the activities of eu agencies in the field of home affairs dealing with organised crime, corruption and money laundering, as well as related security policies.
in writing. − i voted for the establishment of a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. its establishment also responds to the calls of the resolution on eu anti-corruption efforts, which i initiated and which was adopted by the european parliament on 15 september 2011. organized crime and financial fraud cannot exist without corruption. organized crime structures use corruption as a tool to gain access to improper resources and information and to ensure that criminal acts cannot be traced and proven. money laundering provides the 'fuel' that organised crime structures use to perpetuate corruption. it is clear that these three types of criminal offences can only be tackled simultaneously. european citizens want to see concrete measures to combat crime at european level. the commission will examine the extent and impact of organised crime, corruption and money laundering on the union, the effectiveness of the european agencies in the field of internal affairs (europol, cosi, eurojust) in achieving their objectives and will propose measures to combat these acts simultaneously. i hope that the commission's work will have a tangible and visible impact on citizens, by reducing the number of criminal offences and effectively sanctioning them.
in writing. − i voted for the mandate of the special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering. the tasks of the special committee will include: analysing and assessing the extent of organised crime, corruption and money laundering and their impact on the union and its member states; proposing appropriate measures to enable the union to anticipate and counter these threats at international, european and national level; analysing and assessing the implementation of union law on organised crime, corruption and money laundering and related policies; examining and monitoring the implementation of the role and activities of union agencies in the field of internal affairs (such as europol, cosi and euro) dealing with organised crime, corruption and money laundering and related security policies. the commission will have 45 members and a 12-month mandate, starting on 1 april 2012, with the possibility of its extension. the commission will present to parliament an interim report and an end-of-term report containing recommendations on actions or initiatives to be taken.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the continuing professional training of judicial staff is essential for the functioning of the institutional system in the member states. the pilot project launched by the european parliament aims to strengthen the network of trainers and training institutes in the field. the stockholm programme aims to create a judiciary that is fully independent and impartial. the separation of powers in the state - particularly in the judiciary - is one of its aims. the public trust in judges and the public prosecutor's office and the free access to justice must also be strengthened. here i would like to mention the training programmes carried out by the national union of notaries public in romania in collaboration with the european council of the liberal professions, of which he is a co-founder member. only in this way can he ensure the fair administration of justice and his role as moderator of society. the national judiciary is the guarantor of fundamental rights closest to the beneficiaries of those rights. the project will also support the development of a european network of experts in the field of crime prevention and investigation, as well as the development of a european network of experts in the field of crime prevention and investigation.
in writing. − continuing legal training is a particularly important element for a successful national, but also european, legal system. the benefits that european cooperation in this field could bring are not negligible. the exchange of experience between legal practitioners plays a very important role, as it is open to interpretation and the views of legal practitioners may differ even if the subject is the same. in addition, legal doctrine is dynamic and the knowledge of legal practitioners must be constantly updated. the establishment of a 'european legal culture' through the organisation of traineeships at european level, the use of new 'apps' (applications for legal training) and the moderation of annual forums where judges and prosecutors can exchange experience would facilitate the dissemination of information at european level. this helps to remove barriers in the internal market in this area, which will facilitate access for lawyers/judges to eu legal posts, while also helping them to improve at national level. we deserve the best lawyers, the best judges, and for that we must give them the opportunity to excel at european level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on judicial training because i believe that the european judicial area must be based on a shared european judicial culture of practitioners, judges and prosecutors, based not only on union law but developed through mutual knowledge and understanding of national judicial systems, through in-depth review of university programmes, through exchanges, study visits and joint training courses. the active support of the academy of european law, the european judicial training network and the institute of european law is essential in this regard. the comparative study on judicial training in the member states, commissioned by the parliament and carried out by the european law academy in collaboration with the european judicial training network, highlighted the existence of language barriers, the lack of (timely) information on existing programmes and the fact that programmes are not always adapted to the needs of judges. i believe that the use of ict technologies, videoconferencing, online courses, webstreaming, as well as the organisation of exchanges of experience, facilitation and promotion of dialogue and professional contacts can contribute to improving the judicial training process.
in writing. - as the european union is both the world's leading producer of chocolate and the world's leading importer of cocoa, i believe that the european authorities cannot shirk their responsibility for working conditions in this sector. it is up to the european institutions to step in and send a clear message that trafficking in live meat and the exploitation of children in this sector are not tolerated or encouraged by the european authorities and consumers. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − as in recent years programmes and initiatives to combat the worst forms of child labour on cocoa farms in west africa have made significant progress and as the re-emerging conflict situations in the region, especially in côte d'ivoire, have further aggravated the situation of children, i believe that the use of forced child labour on cocoa farms is a very serious matter and that the use of child labour on cocoa farms should no longer be used.
in writing. - i voted for the report on child labour in the cocoa production sector. according to estimates by the international labour organization, over 215 million children worldwide are exploited in child labor. 70% of the world's cocoa production is in west africa, and about 7.5 million people are employed in cocoa production in this region. the cultivation of cocoa beans is labour intensive during harvesting seasons and producers face strong pressures to keep labour costs low. during peak production periods, all family members, including children, are involved in this process. studies in ghana and côte d'ivoire highlight the diverse range of hazards faced by children working on cocoa farms. i call on the commission to ensure that all trade agreements contain effective provisions aimed at poverty reduction and the promotion of decent work, safe working conditions and include binding clauses on human rights and internationally recognised social standards, as well as clauses ensuring compliance with these standards and measures applicable in the event of their breach.
in writing. − i welcome the conclusion of the new trade agreement on the marketing of cocoa, which replaces the previous legislative framework dating back to 2001. the new agreement meets the imperatives of transparency in trade deals, creating the conditions for sustainable development and a fairer distribution of financial resources generated by transactions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament consent to the international cocoa agreement 2010, because it defines improvements to the social and market sustainability of the cocoa production industry, establishing a fair balance between prices for consumers and producers. the european union is one of the main importers of cocoa beans: therefore we both have the need and the responsibility to get involved in the multilateral process of international market regulation. i very positively welcomed the decision to link the adoption of the agreement to a resolution and a commission statement on child labour in the cocoa sector: the issue certainly merits a separate treatment given its crucial relevance in the field of children rights. we urgently must take the direction of the total ban of child labour in trade.
in writing. − as the cocoa trade is vulnerable to exploitation in various forms, having a framework in place that protects both producers and consumers is important. therefore, i am in favour of the renewal of the international cocoa agreement. cocoa consumption in developed countries, especially in europe, is higher than in the developing countries where it is grown. in return for the privilege of reaping the economic benefits of selling this commodity, europe must be prepared to abide by certain standards. in order for this market to sustain itself, efforts dedicated to environmental protection need to be maintained. responsible growing and harvesting practices must be respected. in addition, cocoa producers need to be adequately remunerated. it is much too easy in a system like this to ensure that the majority of the profits wind up in the hands of the people who simply market the product, not in the hands of those who actually produce it. certainly in order for these and other standards not mentioned here to be met, transparency is key. consumers are more than ever concerned with the weight of their spending power. this agreement has the potential to respond to the needs of the globalised world.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation on the proposal for a council decision on the conclusion of the 2010 international cocoa agreement. as the largest importer and consumer of cocoa, the union has an important share of responsibility for enhancing the sustainability of the cocoa-producing sector. the 2010 agreement aims to create the conditions for a more economically, socially and environmentally sustainable and fairer global cocoa trade. the objectives of the new agreement are to promote international cooperation in the global cocoa production sector, to provide an appropriate framework for discussions between governments and with the private sector on all aspects of cocoa production, to strengthen the national cocoa production sectors of the member states, and to work towards fair prices that generate fair revenues for both producers and consumers. the agreement aims to bring more transparency and sustainability to a sector that provides livelihoods for 50 million people worldwide. i believe that the agreement will have a positive impact on all participants in the cocoa production sector and will translate into tangible long-term benefits for both small farmers and their communities.
in writing. − diabetes is one of the most prevalent chronic diseases affecting european citizens, putting a serious strain on the healthcare and health insurance systems of the eu countries. according to the world health organization, the number of people with diabetes in europe has already exceeded the 35 million mark and is set to approach the critical level of 50 million by 2030. the sustained efforts of national health authorities and the improvement of the european cooperation framework are essential to reverse these trends of great concern to public health. since more than a third of newly diagnosed cases of diabetes could have been prevented by regular medical checks, coupled with the practice of a healthy lifestyle and diet, i believe that special emphasis should be placed on organising european campaigns to raise awareness of the factors that favour or cause the development of diabetes. that's why i voted for the resolution.
in writing. − the disordered lifestyle has caused a real 'diabetes epidemic' in recent years, with new cases increasing month by month. globally, the number of patients is estimated to increase from 194 million today to 333 million in 2025. in the european union, 31 million people, or 8.6% of the population aged 20-79, suffer from diabetes. in romania there are 370 000 registered diabetics, and their number is increasing by 50 000 every year. diabetologists, however, claim that the real number of diabetics in romania is double that. diabetes is the leading cause of death in europe, with 80% of people with diabetes dying from cardiovascular complications. in the light of the above, i believe that an eu diabetes strategy with clear objectives on diabetes prevention, diagnosis, management, education and research is needed.
in writing. − according to statistics, almost 285 million people worldwide are diagnosed with the disease, of which about 55.2 million in europe. the estimates for 2030 worldwide are 438 million patients. but the cost of treatment is high -- in the united states alone, it's $210 billion a year, and that's going to be over $300 billion by 2025, because there's no medical solution to diabetes, there's a social solution. diet and lifestyle play a key role in avoiding chronic degenerative diseases such as type 2 diabetes. prevention of this devious disease must begin very soon. we have clear studies that prove that it's enough to lose three to four pounds, by walking for 30 minutes a day at a brisk pace, to reduce the incidence of diabetes by almost two-thirds. taking all this into account, member states should promote the prevention of type 2 diabetes through education in schools on healthy eating habits and physical activity. harmonisation of food policies is also needed to promote a healthy diet and to enable consumers to choose healthy products.
in writing. i voted in favour of the resolution and would like to recall the five priority actions identified by the un special rapporteur on the right to food to put nutrition at the heart of food systems in the developed and developing world: taxing products harmful to health; regulating foods high in saturated fat, salt and sugar; curbing advertising for junk food; and reviewing unwise agricultural subsidies that make some ingredients cheaper than others; and support local food production so that consumers have access to healthy, fresh and nutritious food.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on tackling the diabetes epidemic in the eu, diabetes being one of the most widespread non-communicable diseases, estimated to affect over 32 million eu citizens, which is almost 10% of the union's population. according to statistics, the number of people with diabetes in europe will increase by 16.6% by 2030 as a result of the obesity epidemic and the ageing population. calls on the member states to promote the prevention of type 2 diabetes and obesity through healthy lifestyle strategies, including diet and exercise, and education in schools on healthy eating habits and physical activity. only 16 of the 27 member states have a national framework or specific programme to tackle diabetes. given that there are considerable differences and inequalities in the quality of diabetes treatments across the eu, i call on member states to ensure that patients have permanent access to diabetes treatments and technologies, including e-health technologies. i call on the commission to develop and implement an eu diabetes strategy with clear objectives on diabetes prevention, diagnosis, treatment, education and research.
in writing. − the western balkans are an area of great interest to the european union and, as promised to the states in this area, sooner or later they will be able to become members of the european union. although the council did not take a decision to open accession negotiations with that country at its meeting on 9 december 2011, recent progress by the former yugoslav republic of macedonia is encouraging. the enlargement process in this region must be based on intensive regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations. that is why it is very important to find a compromise on the issues that are the subject of dispute in this region. i believe that the accession process will contribute to greater regional stability and to the improvement of the economic performance of the balkan region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that macedonia must go forward on its way to the european union and therefore it is essential to send a positive signal regarding its future with us. on 5 december 2011, the international court of justice decided that greece, by objecting to the admission of macedonia to nato, had breached its obligation under the interim accord of 13 september 1995. i welcome this decision. now, the council should reflect the court’s decision and immediately follow the recommendation of the european commission by giving macedonia a start date for its accession negotiations. the name issue between macedonia and greece is exclusively a bilateral issue and, as such, it should not interfere with the opening of accession negotiations. progress has been made in the judiciary and the fight against corruption. i encourage the authorities to continue improving the independence, efficiency and resources of the judiciary and would stress that the unification of jurisprudence and publishing all court decisions are vital for the predictability of the judiciary and public trust in the system. high-level corruption cases must be a priority, along with transparency of public expenditure and the funding of political parties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the enlargement of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia. regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations remain key components of the enlargement process. i welcome the progress made in modernising transport, energy and telecommunications networks. given the importance of rail links as an alternative to road transport, i welcome the government's intention to modernise or build rail links from skopje to the capitals of neighbouring countries. i encourage continued efforts to implement the bologna process in higher education and cooperation with other countries in this region to increase the quality of universities in the region. i call on the government to do more to tackle structural unemployment and protect vulnerable groups, in particular through sustainable economic growth and the creation of a favourable business environment. to this end, i call on the government to support small and medium-sized enterprises by facilitating their access to finance. i am concerned about the modest progress on workers' and trade union rights. i call on the authorities to further strengthen labour law and trade union rights and to make more efforts to align national legislation with the eu acquis in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2011 country report on iceland. i support iceland's accession process as iceland contributes to european cohesion and solidarity. i encourage the icelandic authorities to continue their efforts to reduce the level of unemployment and in particular youth unemployment. i call on the government to stimulate small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) by facilitating their presence in the international market and ensuring adequate access to financial resources. iceland, whose energy production is mostly from renewable sources, can make a valuable contribution to eu policies in this area, due to its experience in the field of renewable energy. the icelandic authorities have also provided information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of personal data. i believe that iceland's accession to the eu would significantly strengthen the union's prospects of playing a more active and constructive role in northern europe and the arctic, contributing to multilateral governance and sustainable policy solutions in the region.
in writing. − unfortunately, the report the commission has submitted to the european parliament finds too little progress, both politically and in the other areas addressed in the accession process. political and legal reforms have stagnated. the constitution has not been harmonized with the provisions of the european convention on human rights, there are problems between the country's parliament and the parliaments of the three entities, reforms have produced too little progress in increasing the administrative capacity of the state and its various institutions. the report shows that justice remains a major issue. so is freedom of the press and freedom of speech. the eu has a strong interest in the stabilisation of the western balkans and has done everything in its power to deliver on its commitments. it seems that our partners lack the political will to take the decisions needed to be able to achieve the expected progress together. i understand the problems of bosnia and herzegovina, that many of the wounds of the past have not closed or the healing is superficial. but it is precisely to avoid a repeat of the past that these changes are needed, progress in the political and judicial spheres first and foremost. these are some of the reasons why i support the resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 2011 progress report on bosnia and herzegovina. the prospect of eu membership is one of the most unifying factors for the population of this country. i stress the vital role of education in creating a multi-ethnic society and promoting an inclusive and non-discriminatory education system. i believe that the quality of education, adapted to the demands of the labour market, needs to be improved. in this regard, i call on the authorities of bosnia and herzegovina to address the shortcomings in vocational training, to attract foreign direct investment and to ensure the start of accreditation of educational institutions and the full functioning of the agencies responsible for the recognition of diplomas. in bosnia and herzegovina, workers' rights and trade union rights are still limited. i call on the government to further strengthen these rights and to work towards harmonising the legal framework for them across the country. welcomes the implementation of the small business act and the efforts to ensure measures to provide financial support to small and medium-sized enterprises (smes). i stress the importance of creating a register for the production of economic statistics, as well as a single system of registration of smes for the whole country, which will facilitate the increase in the number of smes and the creation of a specific status for them.
a first conclusion of the demonstrations and elections in russia is that russian civil society has become stronger and may be able to generate an alternative to the current power. i believe that in its relations with the kremlin administration the european union must promote pragmatism, without this being a compromise with our political and moral values. russia must know that our position on respect for human rights and democratic and transparent governance is non-negotiable. the european union must also make it clear to moscow that its position on regimes such as syria is not in favour of the people suffering under totalitarian governments. i think it's important that the new administration condemns what's happening in syria, especially in the united nations. on the other hand, it would be desirable for the european union and the member states to speak the same language when it comes to key dimensions of relations with the russian federation, such as energy policies.
for many of us who have lived under the shadow of russia under communist regimes, the outcome of this election is simply the election of vladimir putin as president. i would not want us to delude ourselves and look at things from only one perspective. russia will be, for a very long time from now, between asian-style modernization and european-style democracy. what is certain is that the 30% of russian citizens who are motivated to choose the european model are worth our investment. i stress that our partnership with russia must focus on strengthening civil society and strengthening an opposition that hopefully will no longer be divided. on elections: they certainly were neither free nor transparent, according to our standards. we shouldn't judge elections by the day of the vote, but by the context. but i think if our partnership is to remain a privileged policy, we'll have to continue with realism.
on behalf of the alde group. i want to welcome, first of all, the realistic way in which the statement made on behalf of mrs ashton addresses the situation in kazakhstan. and i think that not only kazakhstan, but the whole of central asia should be a strategic partnership for the european union, because we can't just talk about human rights, but also about social rights, and this is something we should be particularly concerned about. i want to welcome the start of negotiations for this partnership and cooperation agreement, because we have never had the cynicism to just criticize, but we have understood, as politicians, to get involved to change things. this seems to me to be the way forward in an active foreign policy action of the european union. within this agreement, human rights issues must be given priority. at the same time, however, we cannot afford to ignore the major democratic lapses we are facing in kazakhstan. i also welcome the release of natalia sokolovska, but i particularly demand the release of the opposition leader, mr kozlov, and the leader of one of the most important press authorities, mr igor viniavski, the editor. these are not the only leaders who today face unfair and unfair trials based on a law that targets national security in kazakhstan. i think the main signal that the leaders of kazakhstan want to democratize their country, want to ensure a future that is meant for its citizens, is the way they approach fundamental rights and freedoms. it is vital that that national security law be re-discussed, because it is the source of these oppressions and this cannot be tolerated. we can't consider free speech a violation of a law that concerns national security. no concept of national security in the world can violate the fundamental rights and freedoms of the individual.
the european union and kazakhstan can develop a genuine partnership based on political and economic cooperation to the benefit of both parties. this is evidenced by the increased frequency of meetings over the past year and the launch of negotiations for a new partnership and cooperation agreement. but for these relations to develop further, the kazakh authorities need to respect their commitments on democratic reforms and fundamental human rights. a number of measures are essential in this respect. first, the irregularities reported by the osce/odihr in the january elections should be investigated. at the same time, further efforts are needed to ensure the rights of the opposition and freedom of the press. in this context, i would also like to welcome the recent release of natalia sokolova and hope that other similar gestures will follow. in addition, the janaozen incident in december 2011 resulted in the deaths of at least 10 civilians and the detention of at least 10 civilians. the authorities have, however, stated their determination to investigate the facts in a transparent and comprehensive manner, within the framework of a committee of inquiry. we must encourage them to make every effort to do so. i would like to ask the high representative, if she were present, how she would assess kazakhstan's role at regional level in relation to the other central asian countries.
what is happening in nigeria, the instability, the violence, the extremism, and now the killing of two western citizens, is a strong warning signal on two levels: on the communication between the countries of the european union and on the spread of sectarian violence on the african continent. i think we need to become much more aware of this region where terrorist groups coordinated by al qaeda are active. there is also a need for greater concern for nigeria as a whole. in africa's most populous country, 80 percent of its 170 million people are living in squalor and poverty, even though the country itself is not poor. nigeria is the ninth largest oil exporter in the world, but at the same time, it's one of the most corrupt and lowest ranked countries in the un's human development index. that's why i think we need to move beyond the minimal stage of election monitoring in african states, otherwise bad governance, poverty and corruption will continue to fuel instability and violence.
for several months now, news from nigeria has been troubling. the actions of the terrorist group boko haram have become increasingly violent. in november 2011, 65 people were killed in a series of bombings in damaturu; on christmas day, 44 people were killed in an attack outside the sainte-thérèse church in abuja. the friday night attacks in kano, in the north of the country, which led to the deaths of at least 185 people, are among the most barbaric acts yet claimed by boko haram. nigeria, on the other hand, has been, as we know, for decades, the scene of clashes between christians and muslims. the deterioration of the security situation is, however, at this moment evident and i do not think it can be ignored any longer. the actions of boko haram threaten the balance of the entire country and there are many voices who wonder even if, at this moment, nigeria is not on the verge of disappearing. our support is therefore needed more than ever to establish a climate of tolerance and respect for religious freedom in nigeria. finally, i would like to draw attention to paragraph 7 of our joint resolution: boko haram threatens not only nigeria, but the entire region, because of potential connections with aqim. we must therefore encourage regional efforts aimed at preventing synergies between boko haram and aqim.
the news about nigeria in recent times has been almost entirely about violent incidents. this is a worrying fact, especially given the rise of religious extremism, which is fuelling a very significant number of attacks. the question is what can be done now to avoid making this situation worse. the consequences would be disastrous in a country with over 170 million inhabitants, 250 ethnic groups and a population that is 50% muslim and 40% christian. tensions between different communities overlap with a very difficult economic context: 85% of the population lives on less than two dollars a day, even though nigeria has significant oil reserves. i would have liked the high representative to present proposals for a more active contribution by the union to promoting a peaceful and stable climate in nigeria, had she been present.
the escalation of tension between the european union and belarus has reached an unprecedented point, culminating in the withdrawals of ambassadors from each other. i believe that belarus' neighbourhood and its importance in the eastern partnership are arguments for finding a solution to this situation and i believe that we must persuade the minsk regime to respect the fundamental rights of citizens and allow democracy to be established in the country. this should include concrete progress such as an end to the persecution of the opposition, the release of political prisoners, the holding of free elections and the opening of belarus to european values. last but not least, we must bear in mind that, isolated internationally, the citizens of belarus suffer once again, struggling to cope with economic hardship, poverty, record inflation and huge trade deficit.
the deterioration of relations with belarus puts the union in the paradoxical and undesirable situation of having diplomatic tensions with a neighbouring state, a member of the eastern partnership. however, this will only change when the lukashenka regime stops its policy of repressing the opposition and civil society. the authorities' attitude is only isolating the country internationally. for example, in the latest reporters without borders report, belarus is listed as an internet enemy state for restrictions on online expression, and the imf recently announced its refusal to negotiate a loan with the country. however, the economic consequences are felt first and foremost by the population. i would have liked to ask the high representative how we can limit the effects on citizens while maintaining a firm line towards the authorities.
although this country committed itself to respect human rights at the eastern partnership summit in prague, it is becoming increasingly unreachable. i think it's the closest country to the european union and the furthest from european values. i would like to point out that sanctions must also be taken within the framework of the eastern partnership. we need to talk to the members of this partnership, especially the neighboring countries, to put pressure on the regime in minsk to change its attitude, to the extent that an individual like lukashenko is able to do so. i, however, have serious doubts about lukashenko's willingness to change his behavior. why can't we work with russia on this? because russia would have an opportunity to prove its commitment to values that are human, perennial and not only specific to the european union, russia also adhering to international documents and i am referring in particular to un documents.
in recent years, several romanian sailors have been kidnapped by somali pirates. last october, three of them were fortunately released after eight months in captivity. the eu must address piracy both from the perspective of its causes and its impact on security in the region. europe must change its strategy for the political and economic reconstruction of somalia, through cooperation with the african union. efforts must also be accompanied by an efficient distribution of humanitarian aid. in parallel, efforts to combat attacks at sea must be centralised. the eu, china and the us are now conducting parallel missions in the coastal area. the military protection of the international transit corridor in the gulf of aden must also be a priority in such a structure.
i thank you for your proposals, and i thank my fellow rapporteurs as well. of course, the european union must continue to lead the fight against climate change, and europe needs investment and job creation now more than ever. citizens need jobs and therefore investments in environmental protection can be seen as a driver of development, and the roadmap you have proposed and which we support is an answer to this. however, it must be borne in mind that member states' efforts to transition to a low-carbon economy are not similar, as the starting points are different and, by implication, the implementation efforts are different. i welcome the budgetary planning of european funds to ensure that projects that lead to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions are financed, but at the same time allow the infrastructure gap between member states to be reduced. the commission also needs to review the allowance trading scheme, as the evolution of the carbon market is uncertain and influenced by a multitude of factors, and a balanced balance between set aside and the number of allowances for the post-2012 ets needs to be considered.
without a doubt, both member states and regions must contribute to the achievement of the low-carbon targets by 2050. however, we must be aware of the difficulty of achieving these objectives. the report brought to our attention, in the transport section, the need for a cultural shift towards new and more sustainable modes of transport. encouraging new forms of investment to facilitate the modal shift to greener modes of transport and reduce transport demand, as proposed in the report, will address specific regional situations. the lack of adequate infrastructure, especially in poor regions where it use is low, will generate a number of accessibility problems. cultural change needs to be supported by measures that do not affect the daily lives of citizens and, in particular, their jobs. i believe that to meet this challenge, there is a need for a full alignment of sectoral policies at european union level and involvement of all institutional levels.
the european parliament's motion for a resolution sends a clear message to the world water forum: water is a resource that is shared and should not be treated as a commodity to be used for profit by a minority. access to safe drinking water and water for sanitation is a human right. this is the main political message i want the european union to send to marseille. the motion for a resolution also deals with other essential issues, and one of the most important, in my view, is the use of water in agriculture. seventy percent of the water we use from nature is used in agricultural activities, and in some countries, that percentage rises to 80 percent or even 90 percent. ensuring access to water can only be achieved through the wider use of technology and methods that produce more food using less water, such as efficient irrigation systems. to achieve this, it is necessary to stimulate the use of these techniques. we must support the farmers in the european union who use them and we must try to remove the barriers to farmers in third countries. let's not forget that while 70 percent of the water we take from nature goes to agriculture, at the same time, we waste 30 percent of our food. we're pouring, in other words, a lot of water at every point in the food chain, from extraction to consumption. ensuring access to water is also closely linked to other global issues, such as food security. as with the related topics of biodiversity and climate change, we need an international forum to address this global issue. i hope that the european union's negotiators will convey these messages in marseille as well as at the rio conference.
the world's population has already passed the seven billion mark, and food needs are set to increase by 70 percent by 2050. this increase in food demand would mean a 19% increase in water used in the agricultural sector, which already accounts for 70% of global water consumption. the motion for a resolution under debate rightly points out that new technological advances would make it possible to increase water efficiency and encourage the use of new technologies, equipment and machinery in agriculture related to water use. i would like to draw attention in this connection to the benefits that would be gained from the wider use of gm plants which are also more cost-effective and can help farmers to take care of the environment, including by saving water.
in writing. nearly half of the developing world's population lacks sanitation, over 800 million people still use unsafe sources of drinking water, and inadequate access to sanitation and poor hygiene practices are the cause of more than 2.5 million child deaths per year. deforestation, urbanisation, population growth and climate change are adding new, greater pressure on the availability and quality of safe and healthy water resources and generating higher risks of water-related extreme events, with poor populations being the most vulnerable and least able to adapt to these trends. i believe that public health and environmental protection are priorities for any water management policy and that the protection of drinking water resources is fundamental to human health. i support the development of integrated global river basin management plans and stress the need to achieve a thematic concentration of available funding for water-related actions and to mainstream water issues in all policy areas, including all eu financial and legal instruments, as addressing water-related challenges is an integral part of a functioning 'green economy'.
member of the commission. − mr president, as mr dalli cannot be here today, i will answer your questions on behalf of the commission. the commission has of course followed the development of the schmallenberg issue very closely from the start, and we continue to coordinate the eu response. i would like to say to ms reimers, who asked how we get a standard procedure for new diseases in place, that we think that we already have good mechanisms to ensure an appropriate response to emerging diseases. these mechanisms allowed us to detect the virus and prepare coordinated actions. recent experience, like the response to the h5n1 and the pandemic h1n1 influenza virus, demonstrates that the eu level of preparedness is satisfactory and the application of the one health concept leads to successful reaction. the current event is thus an opportunity to fine-tune those existing mechanisms. under the new animal health strategy, the commission is, however, taking further actions to ensure that the eu level of preparedness further improves. in this case also a guidance document addressing the main priority actions to be undertaken in the eu has already been prepared by the commission and endorsed by member states’ experts and stakeholders. as regards prevention of further spread of the virus, while this virus has already circulated in the animal population of eight member states now, it is unlikely that there is any virus circulation during the winter season. in view of this, the most appropriate control measure to be applied, for now, is surveillance, which is already in place. i should make clear that the movement and export of diseased animals is not permitted in the eu. any veterinary measure we might take would need to be proportionate and sustainable. it would need to take into account that the available information suggests that the impact of this virus on animal health and production is limited, and that there is no evidence that it can cause illness in humans. however, the commission has asked the european food safety authority (efsa) to collect epidemiological data from member states to further assess the impact of the schmallenberg virus (sbv) infection on animal health, animal production and animal welfare. the commission and the efsa are liaising with member states to facilitate and standardise data gathering and transmission of data. there is a knowledge gap as regards this virus due to its novelty. to address this gap, the commission is co-ordinating – and plans to financially support – scientific studies to gather further information aimed at developing a sound veterinary policy for this infection, which is essential for possible future control measures to be adopted either at member state level or eu level. as with any other viral disease, there is no specific treatment to cure animals infected with the schmallenberg virus. at this stage, we cannot predict when an effective vaccine might become available. with respect to any possible public health risk related to this virus, the european centre for disease prevention and control (ecdc) stated in december of last year that it is unlikely that this new virus could cause disease in humans. current data supports this assessment. however, it cannot be excluded at this stage. if new evidence arises on the public health impact of sbv, the commission would, of course, ask the ecdc to provide an update of its risk assessment to take such developments into consideration. the coordination of any public health response would be ensured through the eu early warning and response system. regrettably, despite this rigorous approach, more than ten third countries have applied, or are preparing to apply, trade restrictive measures related to the schmallenberg virus. the commission agrees very much with what mr nicholson was saying when he urged a proportionate response. we consider restrictive measures against eu exports of ruminants and their products to be disproportionate and unjustified on the basis of the currently available scientific evidence. thus the commission is working in close contact with third countries to prevent and reduce their trade restrictions. to conclude, a measured response at eu level is necessary to avoid provoking unjustified market disturbances within the internal market and in trade with our international partners. it is imperative that we continue to keep matters in proper perspective.
in my view, the whole debate has two aspects. first, how serious this crisis is. the outbreak started five months ago, the virus is already present in over 1200 farms, there is no known treatment, the information from the commission has been mixed so far, and the approach of the warm season raises new problems. secondly, what are the consequences for european producers, apart from the decline in livestock numbers, especially in view of the export restrictions imposed by our partners? in response to a question in january, the commission indicated that the adoption of trade restrictions for union exports is not justified and is not in line with the international standards of the world organisation for animal health. however, the russian federation announced that it would ban imports of live animals from all member states as from 20 march. the russian authorities have cited the failure of the union veterinary agencies to provide the russian side with information on the outbreak and the measures taken to combat it. the commission should specify whether it considers the russian side's complaints against the european veterinary agencies to be well founded and, in view of the previous statement on the incompatibility of such a measure with international standards, what steps it intends to take in the dialogue with the russian federation.
this new phytosanitary alert is another reason for the eu to develop its animal health standards. unfortunately, the vaccine to combat the virus is still in the works and it is estimated that the epidemic will have its greatest impact in april. the union should therefore make every effort to ensure that farmers in the member states are informed in real time. continuous surveillance of areas not yet affected by the virus is needed to determine the routes of contamination. furthermore, correct diagnosis and reporting of cases to national authorities is essential to isolate outbreaks. commissioner, the virus has already been included in the rapid alert system for food and feed. how do you see the dissemination of the necessary information directly to farmers in the affected areas?
i voted in favour of this report because i support the union's contribution to the continuity of the international climate treaties. i believe that europe needed this long-term plan in the europe 2020 strategy. this ensures sustainable economic growth and a green energy strategy. my country supports the principles promoted in this document. but i would point out that it is important for romania and other eastern european countries to keep the 1989 reference point for the future framework. this is a way of highlighting the progress made by this group of countries in reducing carbon dioxide emissions. i also think that the question of the transfer of surplus credits from the kyoto system needs to be clarified. in this area, all options that would meet the consensus of the member states should be considered.
an interesting situation has developed in one of the eu member states, one of the founding countries of european integration. in the netherlands, a country with a strong democratic tradition and a traditionally liberal social philosophy, an openly xenophobic and discriminatory website with the tacit approval of the government and the authorities incites citizens to hate other nations. this practice is reprehensible even if it does not create tension between eu citizens, and is therefore harmful not only to dutch society but to the european community as a whole. i ask the dutch and european political decision-makers not to let anyone try to divide citizens into old and new, good and bad europeans. in the present difficult situation, we need more solidarity, more europe, not tension between nations.
this resolution is one that marks a debut. it is the first resolution to sanction an internet communication, a website that takes a xenophobic attitude against european citizens and it is the first resolution to sanction a government. and it is regrettable to me - and i want to stress that this is a coalition government, it is a government made up of christian democrats and liberals - that this is tolerated. but i would not like to use this political issue for an antagonistic debate between groups. if there is any responsibility, it is shared, i stress, between the christian democrats and the liberals, and i believe that we will have to try to avoid such approaches, which are not correct, especially in a time of crisis, and which can accentuate deviations from democratic conduct in relation to the standards of the european union, through civic education campaigns and demarcation campaigns.
i had to speak at this procedure because the conference of presidents decided that only the chairmen of the political groups have the right to express their views during the debate, thus limiting the freedom of expression of us, the deputies without offices. we cannot tolerate offensive and xenophobic labels because we were born in eastern europe. in the last century, negative stereotypes led to the holocaust and the srebrenica massacre, and in our century to norway. it is a shame and a sign of cowardice that the dutch government, of which my colleagues from the epp are part, has not taken the pvv's position. electoral reasons are no excuse, because nothing can justify extremism, discrimination, xenophobia and joining the government by such a group. this attitude is a continuation of other abuses by the netherlands against my country: blocking access to the schengen area and restricting the labour market.
i voted for this resolution because improving access to water contributes to an increase in the quality of life of the population. its effective management is important, especially in the context of poverty reduction. i believe that environmental and climate issues should be given more weight in the debate on poverty eradication. i support the need to protect water resources and to include this issue on the agenda of the rio +20 conference. efficient water use is important not only for the environment but also for the economy. i support the idea of developing global water management plans. at the same time, it is necessary to reassess the available funding to increase the population's access to these services. in romania, water quality is one of the priority measures for the implementation of the community environmental acquis.
in writing. − the eu published in march the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy, applicable to all economic sectors. detailed plans for each sector are currently being developed, the most recent being the energy outlook 2050. given that the evolution of demand and supply is difficult to estimate, the plan presents several scenarios, analysing the possible effects, challenges and opportunities generated by the modernisation of the energy system. the commission notes that the aid is granted to the beneficiaries of the aid, and that the aid is not granted to the beneficiaries of the aid. the price of electricity is expected to increase by 2030. that is why we need to invest in 'smart' electricity grids and improved technologies for energy generation, transmission and storage. combined with the completion of the common energy market, these measures should ensure a decrease in prices in the long term. the sustainability of the investments, the jobs generated and the reduction of the import dependency will offset the costs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the debate on greenhouse gas emissions is becoming increasingly important, not only from the point of view of global warming, but also because of our dependence on depleted resources. there is an acute need for alternative energy sources, greener resources that are just as reliable. europe is obliged to find innovative ways to promote economic growth without harming the environment, taking advantage of the eu 2020 strategy. the 2010 data tells us that there was a 6% increase in carbon dioxide emissions into the atmosphere. however, it is not to be ignored that europe is responsible for only 11% of global co2 emissions. it's not an excuse, but the actions we're taking are not enough to stop the process of increasing co2 emissions. but i do not think we can afford to have very strict deadlines in the face of a financial crisis that amplifies the need for industry to develop while maintaining a competitive economy.
in writing. - i voted against amendments nos 4, 23 and 24 to the report on the transition to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050, as they called for the phase-out of nuclear energy. i believe that the member states of the european union cannot afford to abandon this type of energy at the moment. nuclear energy must continue to be part of a diverse energy mix so that the union's energy needs can be met.
in writing. − today's vote on the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050 confirmed that the future will be about developing energy-efficient technologies, sustainable rural development and energy efficiency. however, it should be borne in mind that the 20% energy efficiency target will be difficult to achieve by 2020. we must remain realistic and take account of the current financial and economic situation. in addition, a reduction in nuclear power will lead to an increase in the use of fossil fuels and therefore in carbon dioxide emissions. europe needs to take concrete steps: incentives for public and private investment focused on the design and development of sustainable technologies, the development of a smart electricity grid and the improvement of pan-european energy interconnections.
in writing. − achieving the union's carbon reduction targets of 80%-95% by 2050 can only be achieved through effectively coordinated community action with practical application at local level. the conclusions of the durban climate change meeting and the position of third countries on the air carbon tax show little interest in rapid action and political commitment to reduce carbon emissions. the development of low-carbon economies at local and regional level and investment in these areas contribute significantly to the creation of new jobs and to the competitiveness of regions. waste management, energy efficiency of buildings and the creation of standardised infrastructure for electric and low-emission vehicles are priorities that can deliver immediate results at local level. the future of sustainable investment will look at reducing dependence on external energy suppliers outside the eu. the development of an integrated system of cross-border energy markets contributes to the energy balance between member states and strengthens domestic generation capacity.
in writing. − approximately 90 parties to the united nations framework convention on climate change, including emerging economies, which together are responsible for more than 80% (eu-11%) of global emissions, have made unilateral declarations on quantified economy-wide emission reduction targets, even though they are not legally binding. if these objectives become binding targets, it is essential to take account of national circumstances and the pressures on the budget that may arise. i call on the european commission to carry out a thorough assessment at member state level of the impact of the new emission reduction targets on the european economy, competitiveness and labour market, as well as an assessment of the equivalence of measures taken by other developed countries in the context of international negotiations.
in writing. − we voted on the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy by 2050. i voted in favour of setting interim greenhouse gas emission reduction targets for 2030 and 2040, but i voted against requiring them to follow a linear trajectory, as these reductions involve medium- and long-term investment and the effect is not linear. i voted for the introduction of a long-term target to reduce the energy consumption of the eu's building stock by 2050 and for continued support for investment in other forms of low-carbon energy production. i voted against paragraph 24 (b) which calls for changing the annual linear reduction rate of 1.74%, set by the ets directive, to meet the requirements of the co2 reduction target by 2050. i voted for amendment no 10 which calls for assurances that none of the proposed measures will reduce the level of allowances for sectors that may be exposed to carbon leakage, as set out in decision 2011/278/eu. i voted against amendment no 24, which eliminates the recognition of the contribution of nuclear energy to the current target of a 20% reduction in co2 emissions by 2020.
in writing. − it is clear that this website is a platform for inciting discrimination and even hatred on the basis of nationality. in my view, articles 18 and 19 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union have been infringed. according to these articles, any form of discrimination based on nationality or ethnic origin is prohibited. furthermore, in accordance with the second subparagraph of article 4 (3) of the treaty on european union, member states are to adopt any general or specific measure to ensure fulfilment of obligations arising from the treaties or resulting from acts of the institutions of the union (such as the framework directive on racism and xenophobia). i think we are in a clear discrimination against which the dutch institutions do nothing. moreover, discrimination is tacitly approved by the dutch government. therefore, the situation is unacceptable and the european commission should take a very clear position on the initiation of the infringement procedure and send a strong signal that such acts are not tolerated and that the treaties must be respected regardless of the colour of the national flag or the political colour of the government. otherwise we're just encouraging this kind of behavior, and governments will be able to hide behind someone else. at that point the commission will start to lose control of the situation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because this website targeting eastern european workers is a symptom of an anti-european orientation of the netherlands, which also includes the obsessive refusal of romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area and the efforts of the dutch minister of asylum and immigration to obtain the support of other states for the tightening of european immigration legislation. dutch prime minister mark rutte takes advantage of the fact that this website is an initiative of a political party, not his government. but by tolerating such actions, it is clear that it is tacitly encouraging them and accepting positions contrary to the spirit of european integration and the values on which the union was built. it cannot be said that this is an internal matter of the netherlands, as long as it is a clear act of hostility towards citizens of ten eu countries.
in writing. − in today's vote, parliament took a firm stand against the initiative of the party for freedom in the netherlands, which has launched a xenophobic website where dutch citizens are encouraged to make complaints against eastern european citizens in the netherlands, especially romanians, bulgarians and poles. the commission and council have so far reacted weakly and i hope that this resolution will motivate these institutions to do whatever is necessary to stop the promotion of such attitudes which are in flagrant contradiction to the eu's fundamental values. by this resolution, i call for a clear dissociation of the dutch government from this discriminatory approach, which creates a serious precedent. this discriminatory attitude is compounded by the refusal to accept romania and bulgaria's accession to the schengen area. in this context, the dutch government should immediately reconsider its attitude towards the accession of the two states to schengen and take into account the european council conclusions of 24 june 2011 and 1-2 march 2012, which reaffirm that romania and bulgaria have fulfilled all the criteria of the schengen acquis. the commission, as guardian of the treaties, must also verify the compatibility of dutch legislation with the relevant european legislation as regards acts inciting xenophobia and intolerance.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on discriminatory websites and the response of the authorities, as the right to protection against discrimination on grounds of nationality and against discrimination on grounds of race or ethnic origin are provided for in articles 18 and 10 of the tfeu respectively. the free movement of citizens within the eu is also enshrined in article 21 tfeu and the free movement of workers within the eu in article 45 tfeu. we stress that workers in the countries that joined the eu in 2004 and 2007 have had a positive impact on the economies of the member states, contributing significantly to sustained economic growth in the eu and not causing disruption to labour markets. we call on the dutch government to respond swiftly to the letters sent by the commission concerning the legislation envisaged, which could violate directive 2004/38/ec on the right of citizens of the union and their family members to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states, and to act on the requests made by the european parliament in its resolutions. we call on the commission and the council to make every effort to stop the spread of xenophobic attitudes such as those expressed on the website in question and to ensure the effective implementation of the framework decision on racism and xenophobia in all member states.
in writing. - what happened in kazakhstan before and after the 15 january elections is just one case that brings us back to the same dilemma: stability for european interests or respect for human rights? it is becoming increasingly clear that the regime of president nursultan nazarbaev is moving further and further away from any democratic standard. this is demonstrated by the re-election of the head of state since the break-up of the soviet union with 95% of the vote last april, the victory of his party in the parliamentary elections in january with 81% of the vote, and the brutal suppression of the oil workers' strikes and pro-democracy demonstrations in solidarity with the victims of the bloody repression of workers' protests. the special importance of kazakhstan in the equation of stability in central asia and in that of global oil and gas supply cannot, however, serve indefinitely as an excuse for restricting elementary rights. i think we should draw the attention of our kazakh partners to the fact that the fight against extremism, separatism and terrorism - in the name of which the astana regime is declaratively acting - risks becoming a fight against democratic rights and fundamental freedoms, including religious ones.
in writing. − on 28 july 2010, the united nations general assembly adopted the resolution on the fundamental right of every human being to safe drinking water. international access to drinking water is limited. according to data presented by the united nations environment programme, 884 million people lack access to clean water, and some 2.3 billion people lack even basic sanitation. the decline in freshwater resources and the expansion of deserts - a problem that in the past was more likely to affect africa and asia - are knocking on europe's door. in southern spain, the desert is expanding by one kilometre a year, romanian oltenia is exposed to a slower but similar process, and in other regions of the world drinking water resources have become a cause of interstate conflict. last but not least, yemen's official announcement that by 2017 it will become the first country in the world without any natural water source is well known. in view of the above, i believe that sustainable water use is not only an environmental but also an economic necessity and that greater transparency in water charging systems would be necessary.
in writing. − it is clear that we are moving towards water becoming a commodity, with all the consequences: income discrimination in access to water, instead of universal access, intensive use of resources at risk of depletion, intensive use of infrastructure, privatisation of distribution, insufficient investment the consequences of climate change can only be managed jointly and only at the level of states. the effects are cross-border, so international cooperation is mandatory. the areas at greatest risk in this area are also the most volatile, marked by inter- and intra-state conflicts. pollution is another problem that needs to be tackled by several countries together. the cooperation is not working as well as we would like. there is also the aspect of investing in research and development to obtain new technologies for recycling wastewater or to optimise water use in agriculture, but also to make desalination of seawater economically accessible. we must not think that by leaving these problems to the markets and removing the states from the equation, things will be easier to solve. the financial crisis shows us how wrong that approach is.
in writing. − about half of the developing world's population lacks sanitation, and inadequate access to sanitation and poor hygiene cause the deaths of more than 2.5 million children each year. also, only 60% of the world's population has access to clean drinking water, and there are even european regions affected by this problem. the more than 180 national delegations attending the world water forum in marseille will therefore be looking for solutions to ensure access to water, as it is a basic right that must be guaranteed and implemented everywhere and for everyone. the european union needs to make some concrete commitments to promote and protect water resources. in addition, member states, together with the commission, need to strengthen their commitment to the un development goals on water and sanitation.
in writing. − water is particularly vulnerable to the effects of climate change, which could lead to a decrease in the quantity and quality of available water, especially drinking water, as well as an increase in the frequency and magnitude of floods and droughts. i voted for this motion to mobilise all actors to develop climate change mitigation and adaptation policies that take due account of the impact on water resources and respond to risks in terms of preventing water-related extremes.
in writing. − the quality of drinking water in the union is increasingly being affected by climate change, but also by human discharges of certain substances into the water. i believe that the union must play an active role in ensuring that the world's water resources are managed efficiently, in compliance with public health and environmental protection rules. the adoption of this resolution is an important step in that direction.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 6th world water forum in marseille from 12 to 17 march 2012, because water is a common good of humanity, which should not be a source of profit but a fundamental and universal right. water management has direct effects on human health, energy production, agriculture and food security, and effective water management is a fundamental prerequisite for poverty reduction. i stress the importance of the transfer of knowledge and technologies related to water conservation, water abstraction, irrigation techniques, groundwater management and wastewater treatment. climate change, deforestation, urbanisation, population growth, biological and chemical pollution are putting increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe and healthy water resources and generating higher risks of water-related extreme events, with poor populations being the most affected. i call on the commission to develop climate change mitigation and adaptation policies that take due account of the impact on water resources.
the sinai region is a transit zone for people from sub-saharan africa who are trying to enter israel, fleeing the conflicts, political instability and natural disasters they know in their home countries. unfortunately, they're met by groups of human and organ traffickers. it is obviously the special case of mr. solomon, the sole survivor of a group of abductees, currently being pursued by the organ trafficking network and in urgent need of protection. we cannot remain indifferent to these inhuman practices. the israeli and egyptian authorities have a duty to take the necessary measures to combat trafficking in persons and organs and to protect and respect the rights of asylum seekers, in cooperation with the united nations high commissioner for refugees. in this context, i call on mrs ashton to give priority to the fight against trafficking in human beings in her dialogue with egypt and israel.
i'm honored to have the opportunity to take part in this debate. today we're talking about solomon, a 25-year-old from eritrea, who has lived through some terrible times. just reading their description is downright unbearable. in a century of civilization and development, some people are treated with extreme barbarity by their fellow men. human beings are sold as mere commodities, subjected to atrocities, kidnapped, tortured, cruelly killed. solomon has escaped his captors, but he is still in danger. in similar situations are hundreds, perhaps thousands of anonymous people who have fled conflicts in their country, sought refuge elsewhere and fell into the hands of human traffickers. i appeal to those in a position to act: do everything possible to save the lives of these innocent people!
in writing. – human trafficking became a thriving business for organised crime syndicates. insufficient international attention makes trafficking more profitable, due to the ongoing crisis in eritrea and the uncertainty produced during the arab spring. mr solomon, a young man from eritrea, was kidnapped, tortured and held for ransom. he is one of the many refugees from war-torn countries that have been victims of human trafficking in the sinai. yet the region is only lightly policed by egyptian authorities. egyptian authorities claim to have no knowledge of human trafficking or torture in the region. this is an alarming and unacceptable statement. we must do our best to ensure the safety of mr solomon’s life. this way we can save the lives of hundreds of victims of human trafficking. this parliament must make it clear that saving this young man’s life is a must for the egyptian authorities. egypt should demonstrate its commitment to upholding international standards against the trafficking of persons.
on behalf of the epp group. i do not think this topic should have been on the agenda of today's emergency debate. moreover, the epp group did not agree to discuss the subject in this context, as i have pointed out. it's about a telecom dispute. it is neither appropriate nor right that it should be placed on the same level as serious human rights violations. by taking such approaches, we are only increasing tensions in the region, where israeli-palestinian dialogue is already facing considerable difficulties. the european parliament should take a constructive stance in support of a solution in the middle east. i would also point out that in doing so we risk jeopardising our own credibility. it's like we don't have any other urgent topics to discuss.
madam president, i strongly believe that this conflict has lasted for too long now and we desperately need a long-term solution to solve it, with two states that should respect each other and live in peace. unfortunately, there are always incidents that permanently endanger the peace process. i agree with the fact that the israeli military operations in palestinian territory were a radical solution and there should have been further efforts to solve the problem in a peaceful manner. however, i think we should also be reminded of the fact that there is a 1995 israeli-palestinian interim agreement, which lays down the conditions in which palestine should operate in the independent telecommunications market in some areas, namely prior authorisation by a telecommunications staff officer. in this case, prior to these operations, israel has requested palestinians to close down the unapproved television stations which interfered with israeli communications. i think we should be fair and ask both parties to respect the rules they agreed on, and to cooperate in a loyal manner in the peace process in order to stabilise the region.
even though, since 1993, we've been talking about the oslo accords, even though the recent statements of the quartet are very clear, even though the israeli and palestinian leaders -- and i'm talking about president peres and president abbas -- are convinced that the future in this area belongs to the two states, i think we need to do more as members of the quartet to clarify things and to get the parties to stop with these situations that are questionable, that can incite disagreement. in my view, a report from the technical committee set up under the oslo accords is needed and, under our association agreement with israel, we will have to ask for a conclusion from this report on the incident that took place. because the truth can be on either side, but i find it hard to accept that both sides are right.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, the high representative is concerned by the incursion into ramallah by israeli security forces to seize equipment from the palestinian television stations. incursions by israeli forces into palestinian cities where the palestinian authority, under the oslo accords, assumes the powers and responsibilities for internal security and public order are a breach of those accords and puts in jeopardy the internationally-recognised success of palestinian institution-building efforts. the european union has worked with both stations, which have been broadcasting for many years. the oslo accords established an israeli-palestinian joint technical committee to address any issues arising in the telecommunications field. in the light of this incident, the high representative has called on israel and on the palestinian authority to use this mechanism to urgently resolve any issues concerning broadcasts by these companies. a statement along these lines was issued by the high representative on 2 march. we continue to urge both sides to exercise maximum transparency and cooperation in the context of the framework provided by the joint technical committee, in order to ensure that appropriate action can be taken in the appropriate timeframe. furthermore, the eu believes that the best possible use should be made of the joint technical committee, in particular to seek upstream solutions to emerging disputes in this area. the eu delegation in tel aviv is seeking further clarification from the israeli government on this incident, and the eu delegation in jerusalem remains in contact with the relevant palestinian authorities and the two broadcasters affected by the seizure of equipment. the european union attaches the greatest importance to the principle of freedom of expression, and we support a vibrant and diverse palestinian media sector operating in a clearly-defined and secure regulatory environment, as provided for in the oslo accords. the eu urges both sides to seek a rapid resolution to this matter through consultation and encourages the israeli authorities to return all the equipment seized during the raids so that the television channels can resume broadcasting on agreed frequencies as soon as possible.
in writing. like other colleagues who have intervened in the debate, i would like to stress that the incident that occurred on 29 february in ramallah is regrettable. it is unfortunate first of all because there are clear rules in the israeli-palestinian agreements binding both sides, regarding television stations. they require both parties to refrain from any action that constitutes interference with the communication and transmission systems or infrastructures of the other party. the palestinian authority has an obligation to ensure that television stations operate in accordance with the law and are safe. it is unfortunate, then, because there are cooperation mechanisms that the two sides could use to address these issues, such as the israeli-palestinian technical committee established by the oslo accords. it is unfortunate, in short, because this incident shows us, once again, what is really at the heart of the problem, namely the inability of the parties to reach a lasting peace based on the two-state solution. i can only join the quartet's call on both sides on monday to remain engaged and to refrain from provocations.
the author. - i want to start by welcoming the debate we have today on the situation in bahrain, because this country is, many say, among the forgotten of the arab spring. for more than a year, the protests have been held in a chain, the repression continues, in the almost total indifference of the international community. some commentators have talked, in this sense, about the revolution we don't want to see. the european parliament, by its debate today, shows that it sees the revolution, it sees the violations of human rights and it condemns these violations. condemns, firstly, the excessive violence used by the security forces against citizens, condemns the unfair trials which have become a central element in the repression of democratic protests, condemns the restrictions imposed by the bahraini authorities on the activities of ngos. it is time for the human rights promises made by the bahraini authorities to be followed by concrete action, with the implementation of the recommendations of the independent commission of inquiry as a priority.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, the situation in bahrain worsened following the violent suppression of the peaceful pro-democracy demonstrations. despite the recommendations of the bahrain independent commission of inquiry and the government’s promises to pursue those recommendations, the violence continued. thirty-five people died up to the end of martial law in june 2011, and this figure has risen to over 60, with an avalanche of deaths related to the violence since december 2011. the bahraini authorities must stop the violent suppression of peaceful protests. it is reported that political and human rights activists, journalists and medical personnel are being unfairly tried in military and civilian courts. such prosecutions must be stopped immediately, and those officials who fail to implement the fair trial rules must be held accountable. we also condemn the continued repressive measures in the area of internet censorship, as over one thousand websites remain blocked in bahrain. this parliament must take a stronger stance and the eu must increase pressure on the bahraini government to honour its promises of democratic reforms and investigate human rights violations.
i think bahrain is a case in point of what it means to take steps forward at the urging of the international community and many steps back, because otherwise we cannot interpret the findings of the independent commission of inquiry, which presented its report last year, which was considered a positive fact. but this commission of inquiry clearly establishes that international human rights standards were not respected in the judicial processes. following this commission of inquiry, the king appointed another commission to present a plan for implementing reforms. this plan is due to be presented on 20 march. it might have been interesting to wait and see if there is actually political will in bahrain, but in my opinion, the will to continue repression and to restrict fundamental rights and freedoms is there. that is why i welcome the resolution and believe that only our pressure can lead them to take serious and solid steps towards reform.
i want to start by emphasizing that i have always supported serbia's accession. i firmly believe that the whole process of joining the union is in the interests of the citizens of this country, who are ultimately the main beneficiaries of the political and economic reforms that compliance with the copenhagen criteria entails. however, accession implies full compliance with these criteria, including the essential criterion of the protection of persons belonging to minorities. i would like to draw particular attention to the situation of ethnic romanians in north-eastern serbia, which has unfortunately not improved at all. access to education, religious services and media in romanian, the use of romanian in local administration, all continue to be problematic, and intimidation of ethnic romanians in the timocului valley continues. these elements are not new and have been raised repeatedly, but despite the assurances of the serbian authorities, including in the debates in our parliament, the implementation of european standards on the protection of national minorities is still deficient. moreover, despite the commitments made by serbia before the european council meeting in march, when the joint commission's protocol with romania on national minorities was signed, there are signs that the implementation of these rules is not a priority for serbia. i therefore welcome the decision of the european commission to monitor the implementation of legislation on minorities in serbia. i hope that this will finally lead to concrete changes in the situation of the romanian minority, which will only accelerate serbia's european path.
the countries of the western balkans have all chosen the path of european integration. the region's inhabitants hope that this will improve their living conditions, boost the economy and resolve tensions between ethnic groups. the people of serbia hope the same, serbs and hungarians, roma and romanians, albanians and croats all. however, if the union does not pay sufficient attention to tackling minority issues, future eu citizens will be disappointed in us. the best way to deal with inter-ethnic tensions is to provide political autonomy. in the province of vojvodina in serbia, this is the way of the future. for a long time, this was the solution for kosovo, but time has passed for an intra-state settlement. i ask the commission and the member states not to allow the accession countries of the region to lose their european perspective. to do so, we must be attentive to their problems, even if that means taking part in the settlement of interethnic relations.
the european commission's october assessment of the republic of serbia's progress on the european path must be based on the fulfilment of the copenhagen criteria, of which the protection of the rights of persons belonging to national minorities is an important part. as regards the situation of romanian minorities throughout serbia, i do not think we are dealing with a bilateral situation, but one that depends on the fulfilment of political criteria. on the basis of the principle of self-identification, serbia must implement minority legislation in a coherent manner, i.e. throughout its territory, and consistently, i.e. for all minorities. ensuring access to education, religious service, media and public administration in the romanian language for all who identify as romanian is a necessity. the implementation of the recommendations agreed by romania and the republic of serbia in the protocol of 1 march this year on national minorities should be an evaluation criterion in the european commission's report in october.
in writing. i support the enlargement of the european union, through the accession of the western balkan countries and, by implication, serbia, to the extent that they apply the copenhagen criteria in practice. just as romania had to adhere to strict principles on minority rights, and is today a model in this regard, serbia will have to align itself with the european model in this area if it wants to join the eu. i am referring to the situation of national minorities in general and of the romanian minority in particular, regardless of the various names under which we find the latter or the number of citizens more or less formally recognized. ethnic romanians demand, above all, education, religious service and the press in their mother tongue, that is, normal rights in a democratic state. unfortunately, these requests are consistently denied and the problems have been going on for years, with the serbian authorities still not aligning themselves with eu practice in the treatment of national minorities. in these circumstances, until the issue is satisfactorily resolved, i consider it useful for the european commission to monitor the implementation of european standards on minority rights in serbia.
in writing. – only 15 years ago, such a debate on serbia’s candidacy for eu membership would have been unthinkable. the nucleus of a war-broken federal state, serbia was marginalized within the ‘new europe’. everything which had happened there was a tragedy both for the former yugoslav peoples, including the serbs, and for the entire continent. after the break-away of slovenia and croatia, war broke out in bosnia-herzegovina, and bombing took place over the separation of kosovo. however, the last separation – montenegro – took place peacefully, reflecting the maturity and courage of the new serbian leadership, and primarily of president tadić. indeed, the current serb leadership has taken decisive steps which have made this debate possible: it has captured two long-sought war criminals, karadžić and mladić, and has handled properly the independence of kosovo. that was all possible because it understood that the only chance for serbia was to cut loose from the past and concentrate on the future – a future which engaged the country inevitably on the path to eu integration. that has been correctly understood by serbia and i am confident that this country will fulfil the ensuing obligations, including by helping to maintain stability in a very sensitive and important area of the continent.
while we heard about the demands for autonomy of kosovo albanians in the 1990s, today kosovo is an independent state recognized by most eu member states. but the journey between the two was not smooth, with bloody battles and many casualties, and it took two economically wasted decades. when the serbian leadership rejected kosovo's autonomy, they may not have known that they were taking the first step toward secession. and when the international community didn't take rugova's peaceful protests seriously, they may not have known that they were contributing to the violence, the armed conflict. in ethnically mixed areas, and the western balkans is one such area, allowing self-governance for the various indigenous national minority communities is a primary condition for social peace. that's what the not-so-distant history of kosovo teaches us. the union must listen to the voices of national minorities more than it has done so far.
turkey's place is in the european union. we have every right to be demanding in the negotiations with turkey that european values be fully respected, but i believe that some member states must be equally demanding in the face of the real reasons they invoke year after year to block the negotiations with turkey. i hope that the forthcoming cypriot presidency will be a positive surprise in the progress of these negotiations.
member of the commission. − mr president, the turkish accession process has to move forward. it is urgent now for turkey to comply with its obligation of full implementation of the additional protocol to the association agreement, and to make progress towards normalisation of bilateral relations with the republic of cyprus – the same cyprus which is soon to become a proud and, i am confident, effective presidency of the council to the benefit of the european union and to the benefit of the interests of the european union. it has been a fascinating debate. it is only a pity that not that many people who were so outspoken during the debate have stayed until the end, because i would like to share a couple of thoughts here. number one – what really surprised me, though maybe i was occasionally not attentive enough, is that no one has really mentioned the comprehensive talks on cyprus, and tomorrow’s important meeting, and the road map as put forward by the united nation’s secretary-general and implemented by special representative alexander downer. is it a sign of this house being content with the status quo? i hope not. i hope that the energy which i have sensed in your discussion will be turned towards supporting the two leaders who will be meeting tomorrow, addressing the core issues and allowing downer to recommend to the secretary-general to go for the finalisation of the process and not to leave it for a plan b – because i have news for you: there is no plan b. (applause) secondly, as for the reform process, looking at the progress achieved in the past years we can conclude that turkey is moving forward. even if progress is sometimes too slow or uneven a lot of taboos have been removed, a lot of questions are now being debated. who could have imagined turkey restoring properties to non-muslim religious communities, the latest example being the title deeds of the greek primary school of galata in istanbul? my third point concerns the remarks about my predecessor and about double standards. i have only one standard, and it is to be sincere and truthful both in open meetings and in meetings behind closed doors. despite my age i have enough experience and diplomacy to be aware that the worst enemy of success is to say one thing in an open arena and something different behind closed doors. i will never, ever do it. what this house should not be split on, i believe personally, is the issue of clear rules of the game at the end of this process. what are these rules of the game? the first is the accession treaty which clearly reflects turkey’s position in this case, approximating its legislation fully with the european union acquis, as stipulated by all negotiating chapters. number two is the consensus of all member states, and the procedure to ratify this approval. and the third is an impact study showing clearly the impact of, in this case, turkish membership and also showing clearly to all member states and all of us that we are going to talk about how the process is to be managed to the benefit of both the european union and turkey. those are the rules of the game and i hope the house is not split on this particular issue. i also hope that this house is not going to split on the issue that the best way to achieve this, the best way to help turkey, to strengthen democracy, is actually the accession process. does anyone in this house believe that building a big wall between us and turkey would improve the very fundamental rights so many of you referred to? because i do not. the accession process is the only way to make the european union the benchmark of the reforms in turkey. the accession process is not there to compromise on our values. the accession process is for turkey to embrace the values the european union is so firmly based on. why should this house be split on this process? because, interestingly enough in this debate, i have not heard one single idea how to do it better and more efficiently to the benefit of the turkish people. i have not heard it and i am afraid i will not hear it in the future. now coming to particularities, but important ones: as regards a paragraph in the resolution on civil/military relations i would like to agree that the formulation of the sentence on the integrity of the armed forces could be improved in order to clarify more precisely what is meant and take away any ambiguity that might arise. the next point: at the start of the debate i also expressed my concerns about the respect for freedom of expression in general. it is something i will continue to raise with my counterparts. i will not miss any opportunity. in turkey we will continue to exchange views on civil society. let me stress, in conclusion, something i feel personally very strongly about. the european union should continue to encourage the reform process in turkey. our leverage and influence in turkey will become all the more credible and stronger if our commitments, as outlined in 2005 when we launched the accession negotiations, remain unambiguous.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner füle, you have been very helpful in this. the enlargement of the eu has historically proved to be one of the most successful instruments of the eu's foreign policy. the attractiveness of the eu has been actively used to push a number of countries to implement far-reaching social, political and economic reforms. we have an ever-growing community of shared values, exchanging and trading with each other across the board for the security and prosperity of the whole of europe. the values that commissioner füle has just mentioned in his powerful speech. i look forward to further constructive and positive cooperation with the european parliament under the danish presidency - not only with regard to the accession process of turkey but also in relation to the other candidate countries. we all know that the process is complicated and difficult and that it places great demands on the countries that choose to be part of it. although the negotiations with turkey are by no means easy, i think that the debate today has shown that continued negotiations are the best way to help turkey on its further path towards political and economic reforms. as highlighted in parliament's resolution, it is in the fundamental interest of both the eu and turkey that we continue along this path. the danish presidency, together with the member states, the european parliament and the commission, will do everything we can to promote the process, but i would also like to make it clear today that the final decision lies with turkey. the accession negotiations can only progress if turkey's own reform efforts are advanced. it is hard work, not to be underestimated, and also depends on political will and commitment. the danish presidency will continue to follow developments closely and support the process wherever we can. finally, i would like to stress the importance of the european parliament in the wider political context. discussions such as the one we have had today are crucial to engaging the people of both turkey and the eu member states and to ensuring continued support and understanding for our common project. it is an important work which should not be underestimated and on which we should all focus more. the european parliament has an extremely important role to play here.
in writing. i would like to thank rhea oomen-ruijten for this balanced report on the progress made by turkey in 2011 on its path towards eu accession. i particularly appreciate the call to open negotiations on chapter 23 - justice and human rights, which i supported last year in one of the amendments tabled. i am also pleased that mr oomen-ruijten has decided to support my amendment on cooperation in the black sea area and the importance of turkey in the area. finally, i appreciate the support for the 'positive agenda' proposed by the european commission and hope that there will be concrete results. turkey is playing an increasingly important role at regional and global level. i sincerely hope that she will continue her efforts to join this year, so that in december we can talk about a positive moment in the negotiation process.
mr president, over the past year montenegro has made progress in judicial reform. the backlog of cases in the courts has been reduced and measures to reinforce the independence, accountability and efficiency of judges and prosecutors have been adopted. but these are all on paper and in legislation. enforcement is the most important element, the key issue and it is the most difficult to achieve. if we look at the last 20 years in the post-communist countries, the most difficult reforms were the reforms of the judiciary and the measures to enforce the fight against corruption. in the area of the fight against corruption, legislation has been reinforced by adopting a new public procurement law, the law on funding political parties and a law on conflicts of interest. once again, implementation is the key issue and the test of the success of all this adopted legislation. further efforts are needed to ensure a predictable and efficient judicial system and to restore public trust. here i would like to give two suggestions: jurisprudence must be unified – justice must not be a lottery – and all judgments must be made public. in the fight against corruption, the montenegrin authorities must focus on high-level corruption cases. this is the test of the judiciary and of the political class. we need, and the people of montenegro need, a strong and convincing track record of final convictions in high-level political cases.
montenegro has made concrete progress in the seven priority areas identified by the european commission a year ago. in this context, i also welcome the european council's decision to open accession negotiations with this country in june 2012. i believe that this will encourage reforms in all the countries of the region, demonstrating that internal progress is a fundamental element for the success of the european integration process. i also call on the montenegrin authorities to continue their efforts, particularly in the field of justice, in combating corruption and organised crime. in this context, i believe that the commission's new strategy of opening chapters 23 and 24 at the start of the negotiations is appropriate. i also stress the need for further measures to improve the situation of roma, including through the development of a new national strategy in this area.
member of the commission. − mr president, let me conclude my remarks by reiterating my congratulations to the rapporteur, charles tannock, for his informed contribution to today’s political debate. i am confident that this resolution sends the right message to montenegro: one of both acknowledgement of the hard work delivered so far and strong encouragement to pursue the reform process with determination. montenegro is very close to opening accession negotiations. i am positive that, with the strong commitment of its people and our joint support, montenegro will continue to set a positive example in the region by moving ahead in its european integration efforts. in line with the recent european council conclusions, the commission will present an interim report this spring on montenegro’s progress in the implementation of reforms, in particular in the area of rule of law and fundamental rights. the report will especially look into continued progress on the seven key priorities since the adoption of our 2011 progress report. should the report indicate further progress, the launching of accession talks by the council in june would confirm the credibility of the enlargement process as a whole.
president of the council. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the eu has given the citizens of montenegro hope for a future in the eu. it is a future and a wish that is now within reach. in montenegro, there is broad national consensus on the desire for eu membership and it is impressive how much montenegro has achieved in a short time in its efforts to move closer to the eu. as part of the danish presidency of the european union, i myself visited the country on 21 february this year. here i witnessed a willingness to reform and a strong commitment on the part of the country. in a short time, many important reforms have been implemented, including those aimed at building a more efficient rule of law and ensuring the fundamental rights of citizens. these are reforms which are in the interests of both montenegro and the eu. all this is good, but progress is still needed, particularly in the fight against corruption and organised crime. i look forward to the next commission progress report in this respect, which will assess the many reform measures. we have discussed in today's debate a number of areas where reform is needed. there is broad agreement between the eu and montenegro on the areas where it is appropriate to work further, and this is welcome. montenegro's future reform work should focus in particular on the completion of constitutional reform, the fight against organised crime and corruption, and the effective implementation of the legislation adopted, in particular in areas such as the financing of political parties and anti-discrimination. in this context, we look forward to the completion of the work on the constitutional reform, which will strengthen the independence of the judiciary. the forthcoming reforms will undoubtedly shape the daily lives of the people and will have major demands. in this context, it is important to continue strengthening the administrative capacity of the country. this can be done, inter alia, with contributions from the eu instrument for pre-accession assistance, which has so far been of great benefit to montenegro. with a small and open economy, montenegro has also been affected by the crisis and, like elsewhere in europe, there will be prospects of low economic growth and unemployment. for this reason too, it is important that montenegro implements a policy to promote the conditions for the growth of the economy. progress has already been made on montenegro's path towards a market economy and further reforms will strengthen this development. i am confident that montenegro will continue to do its best to live up to the commitments of the stabilisation and association agreement. progress in eu integration is, as we know, merit-based. it is welcome that montenegro has already achieved a high degree of compliance with the membership criteria. when the countries in the eu's integration process deliver, the eu must do the same. i hope that under a danish presidency in june we will be able to open accession negotiations with montenegro. the progress we expect in the integration of montenegro into the european union will, of course, be of benefit first and foremost to montenegro itself; but i am convinced that the progress will also help to give a positive impetus to the efforts of the other balkan countries to move closer to the european union. it is therefore an important issue for montenegro, for the balkans and for the eu. it is a matter on which the danish presidency will work closely with the european parliament and the commission to achieve the results we agree are needed for the benefit of montenegro and for the benefit of europe.
in writing. montenegro has made substantial progress in the process of european integration, largely meeting the accession criteria, through the implementation of important structural reforms. but there are also some issues that the authorities in podgorica have a duty to treat with the utmost seriousness. i am thinking, first of all, of the need to combat organised crime and respect freedom of the press. objective and prompt investigations are required in all cases of attacks against journalists. we are also concerned about the serious under-representation of women in decision-making positions and the lack of respect for women's labour rights. these are clear expressions of the violation of gender equality. last but not least, montenegro has an obligation to implement sustainable solutions to the problems of the 15 000 refugees on its territory.
i think that mr tavares' report is timely in the context of the difficulties faced by some member states in managing the flow of refugees. in this context, i would stress the establishment of the annual european resettlement priorities. this ensures a high degree of flexibility for the european resettlement programme. furthermore, it establishes an obligation on the part of the member states to report to the commission the approximation of the number of refugees for the following year. this can help to avoid incidents such as the one in lampedusa and the victims of illegal attempts to cross the mediterranean. i also stress the usefulness of the new way of calculating the additional funds, by establishing an average budget per person. this takes into account the real needs of refugees or displaced persons.
in writing. the european refugee fund (erf) supports and encourages member states' efforts to admit refugees and displaced persons and to cope with the effects of such admissions, taking into account relevant community legislation. the general objective of the european refugee fund shall be to support and encourage the efforts of member states to admit refugees and displaced persons and to cope with the effects of such admission, taking into account relevant community legislation. i welcome this proposal which calls for the decision establishing the european refugee fund to be amended with a view to creating a joint eu resettlement programme. the idea of increasing the impact of eu resettlement actions is welcome in the current international context; this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the european schools for the period 2014-2020 (article 21 of the financial regulation).
in writing. recent events in the southern mediterranean have posed a challenge for the european union not only in terms of upholding democracy and the rule of law, but also in terms of the mechanisms for managing migration flows, external borders and internal solidarity mechanisms within the union. this last aspect of solidarity is perhaps the most problematic, as we are witnessing not only an erosion of solidarity within the eu, but also in relation to international partners, especially in terms of international protection. the general programme on solidarity and management of migration flows is part of the eu's response to this erosion of solidarity and therefore needs to be supported. the european union must support member states that are willing to get more involved in helping refugees in need of eu protection. at the same time, it is important that refugee and resettlement programmes are managed with clear priorities, the most important of which is to target the most vulnerable.
i would also like to commend the efforts and responsibility shown by parliament in this period of great difficulty. realistic estimates in the current context of consolidation of national budgets. it is essential that europe has an appropriate economic policy framework, and this can be achieved through budgetary savings. i am also in favour of examining the working methods of parliament with a view to reorganizing it. considers it necessary to strengthen collective efforts in order to facilitate the implementation of the budget through measures taken at union level. at the same time, the economic recovery must be based on a reasonable budget that promotes growth in these times of austerity. i also believe that parliament should look for other possible sources of funding outside its own budget.
rapporteur. − mr president, this report, a non-legislative one, contains questions of crucial importance on how the future of corporations will look. having said that, such measures should not be applicable to non-public corporations. corporate governance rules are naturally necessary to regulate the relationship between shareholders, directors and managers. if the number of shareholders is not large, irrespective of their size or business, there is no need for corporate governance. moreover, such rules are not appropriate for smes where flexibility is of the essence. so, the key points of this report, as well as of the future corporate governance legislation, should strengthen the ties between a company and both its non-executive directors and its shareholders. in this respect a clear demarcation line should be drawn between the attributions of the chairman of the board and the chief executive officer. furthermore, non-executive directors should have a professional background, an expertise, for instance former executives from other companies in the same or another industry or in the same or another market. such qualifications are necessary because it is the board that selects the officers and furthermore watches over their activity in order to report to shareholders and supervisors. to perform this properly they should be trained and skilled. moreover, the number of seats that one director can hold should be limited, except in the situation where the companies on whose board the director sits are members of the same group or where the director is performing this role as a representative of an institutional investor where he holds his main job. the composition of the board should also be more diverse and the role of non-residents – for multinational companies – and of women should be increased. shareholders should be more involved, to stimulate their appetite to participate in decision-making within the company, even if their investment is just for a short period of time. electronic voting could be a solution and the commission should evaluate this possibility based on a cost-benefit ratio. shareholders should receive the same amount of information from the company, irrespective of their stake. cooperation between shareholders should also be allowed. in some member states this is forbidden when it comes to voting. a conflict of interests between shareholders and the company, for instance transactions with related parties, should lead to the shareholders concerned, irrespective of the size of their stake, refraining from voting. minority shareholders should be protected against the abusive decisions of the dominant one, but without giving the opportunity to allow harassing behaviour by the former. risk behaviour should be approved by the board and publicly disclosed, and the bonuses of officers should be linked more to long-term results in order to discourage risky behaviour that endangers the company in the long run. furthermore, the remuneration policy of both directors and officers should be approved by the general meeting of shareholders. the report aims also to strengthen the role of the audit, nomination and remuneration committees. the key issue of this report will be mandatory norms versus compliance with plain principle and i am glad that the ppe point of view in favour of the latter prevailed after the vote in the committee on legal affairs. last, but not least, all such measures to be introduced should be considered based on the cost of each measure, for instance periodic mandatory appraisal. the commission should then come up with a set of tools contained in a european code of conduct which will leave the main corporate governance instruments to be applied by public corporations, customised in certain matters in accordance with the policy of each member state. the final goal of the future legislative report that is yet to come, later this year, is to preserve the strength of our corporations and make them important global actors, protecting their competitiveness and, as a consequence, securing jobs and profits.
first of all, i want to congratulate sebastian bodu on this report. the construction of a single market at european union level was not and is not possible without the existence of strong trading companies and their appropriate development in the light of the economic environment, which is very dynamic at european and international level. to keep pace with these dynamic developments, europe needs to adapt its legislative framework to the needs of companies, to provide adequate protection at european level for shareholders, creditors and all partners who are influenced by the activities of companies. in a europe without internal borders, proper harmonisation of national laws and company structures in the member states is essential to ensure that european citizens can benefit from all the services and products offered by them, especially in terms of cross-border trade, but also from the point of view of corporate social responsibility and their role in innovation and economic growth.
corporate governance is defined as the system by which enterprises are run and controlled and as a set of relationships between the management of an enterprise, its board of directors, its shareholders and other stakeholders. the corporate governance framework for listed companies in the european union is a combination of legislation and non-binding legal instruments, including corporate governance recommendations and codes. directive 2006/46/ec promotes the application of corporate governance codes and requires listed companies to refer to a code in their corporate statement and to report on its application. the commission finds that the proportion of women on the boards of listed companies in the european union is currently on average 12%. we call on the commission to submit a legislative proposal by the end of 2012 if companies do not meet the objective of 30% of women on boards by 2015 and 40% by 2020 through voluntary measures.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would naturally like first of all to thank mr bodu and the fictitious rapporteurs, but also each and every one of those - there are more women than men in the house - who spoke throughout this debate, which i followed with great attention. mrs. swinburne said you shouldn't check boxes. mr zwiefka said: 'we must beware of unrealistic proposals'. i agree with you. that is why we are taking the time to consult and to take account of the green papers in particular. i take the time to consult so as not to improvise proposals on news and good governance. mr bodu's report is a useful, very useful, item in the context of this consultation period. many of you have spoken about diversity and gender equality. of course, this is not the only issue, but it is an important one and we must emphasize - we will do so in our proposals - above all transparency in diversity policy. we have not yet decided on the question of binding quotas. i told you that i had an opinion on this, as did mrs reding, and i agree with what mr cofferati and mrs kolarska-bobińska said, and also with what mrs prendergast said a moment ago. it is also a question of respect for all employees in the company, in the community that constitutes a company, and in this respect there is also the concern for greater diversity and a more normal presence of women, especially in management positions. i would like to say to mr zwiefka, to mrs swinburne, to mrs vicky ford that the commission is well aware of the different national systems of governance. the flexibility of the european model is an asset for our companies, which, as we know, have to face competition from china, india or the united states. however, corporate governance, and i say this also to mrs gáll-pelcz, is not limited to principles alone. a good deal of this governance is enshrined in company law, which regulates matters of external or internal control, and in the decision-making mechanisms and the separation of powers within companies, in particular in the shareholders' rights directive, the audit directive, the transparency directive, the public procurement directive and the rules, which are still insufficient in my view, on the remuneration of directors. this is the corporate law we are working on, not just principles. it is true, ladies and gentlemen, that corporate governance is often a question of behaviour, but in other areas too there are binding, useful rules which concern people's behaviour, for example the traffic code or the criminal code. so our whole problem is to find the right balance between these two requirements - i am addressing mrs ţicău here, who was speaking on this subject - and this is an issue on which the commission is working. mrs regner was referring to the scope of the measures we are going to take, and i can confirm to her that we will apply rules to all listed companies. this is not a matter of dispute, mrs regner, and all listed companies will be affected, at least they will be, by these rules. we will be - i say this also to mrs thein, who referred to the difficulties or characteristics of small and mediumsized enterprises - attentive, in this field as in other areas, to the situation of small and mediumsized enterprises. these small firms probably should not be subject to the same constraints as other larger firms. mr cofferati, mrs le grip, mrs bauer, mrs lichtenberger and mrs dăncilă spoke on the subject of social responsibility. we will be proposing rules on the transparency of non-financial information this autumn, as well as on the social and environmental commitment of companies, and i thank you and mrs regner for your support for the need for binding rules in certain areas. i too do not believe in self-regulation in certain areas, which has shown its limits, if i may say so, in financial regulation. the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the euro against counterfeiting is based on the principle of the free movement of goods. we agree with all these priorities, and you will find them in our action plan. i would also like to remind several of you, mrs bauer, mrs costello and mrs regner, that everything we are proposing is well within the overall framework of regulation and the lessons we are learning week by week from the financial crisis. this crisis is not over, we have not learned all the lessons from it, and if you look closely at my agenda - president karas knows this well - and i propose that week after week we try to learn all the lessons from the shortcomings, the failures and, sometimes, the irresponsible behaviour. i think good corporate governance is one of the lessons we need to learn from this crisis. mrs thein asked a specific question about the specific nature of the dualist structure with a board of directors and a supervisory board, which we are all familiar with. this specificity does not exist in all countries; however, some problems do exist regardless of the structure. thus, the lack of diversity or transparency in pay exists regardless of the structure in which one is located. the green paper was not intended to deal with all the questions but to initiate the discussion, and this question was raised in the green paper. so we are now going to make proposals based on the impact studies. i would like to thank you, ladies and gentlemen. in line with what mrs mazej kukovič said earlier, i would like to welcome the fact that all the members who spoke stressed the need for good governance, improved governance, which would provide more transparency, more diversity, more accountability, more long-term commitment. it is in this spirit that the commission will work, in the light of mr bodu's report, and that it may also go further in certain areas, along its own lines, in the proposals we will make in the coming months.
the reporter. - i would like to welcome first of all the grouping of corporate governance rules into a package of corporate law. it is a perfect idea, for which i thank you, commissioner barnier. as regards the representation of women, i would like to say that there are different views in the european parliament, namely whether to leave things as they are, whether to adopt flexible, voluntary quotas or whether to adopt fixed, mandatory quotas. i would like to propose to you, commissioner barnier, that we work together on the following aspect, which will put an end to the successive discussions on various reports which actually deal with other subjects, besides the subject of the eventual quotas for women on the boards of directors. i therefore propose that before we receive the commission's legislative proposal to the european parliament, we here in the european parliament should take a stand on a separate report, which has only one point: the participation of women on boards.
in writing. – i share the rapporteur’s opinion that the commission’s green paper does not adequately address matters such as conflicts of interest, stakeholders’ involvement or directors’ independence. the green paper itself relies on a study susceptible to bias: the draftsman, mr jacques de larosière, chairman of the high-level group on financial supervision in the eu, presented the study to the commission in february 2009, at which time he was also an advisor to the president of a giant financial institution, bnp paribas. this case demonstrates how light-heartedly the current framework of corporate governance assimilates potential conflicts of interests. the paper also fails to adequately address the role that compliance departments should develop in the context of social corporate responsibility objectives. stricter rules at eu level should be developed to ensure that reports under the ‘comply or explain’ approach are thoroughly drafted and sufficiently informative. i encourage a remuneration policy based on transparency, where the disclosure of directors’ remuneration is mandatory. directors’ remuneration should reflect the long-term viability of the company concerned. i consider that european rules on corporate governance should apply to all companies having an economic impact beyond a set threshold, regardless of whether or not they are listed.
the seoul nuclear security summit is a major milestone, coming after the fukushima disaster last year. nuclear power was a promising option at one time. but we've only covered part of its costs. fukushima forces us to decide whether to prioritise investing in new, less dangerous power generation technologies. there is also the great problem of radioactive waste management, which will occupy the attention of many generations from now. this waste is also dangerous because it can be used as a weapon by terrorist groups. that's why spent fuel management can become a nightmare without international cooperation. the seoul summit also reminds us of a failure, that of nonproliferation. north korea is one such country that has flouted international agreements and has acquired nuclear weapons. iran is following in their footsteps, and the response of the international community needs to be much more compelling than it has been in the past to bring about a change in the behavior of these countries.
i would like to welcome the election of mr nicolae timofti, magistrate, as president of the republic of moldova after 917 days in office. it was not an easy task, given the inflexibility of the opposition and the special way of electing the president in the republic of moldova, unlike any other european country. since taking power, the pro-european alliance has made notable progress in modernizing the country and moving closer to the european union. with the election of a new president and thus the establishment of political stability, i express the hope that these efforts will intensify. i also hope that the european union will reward the reforms of the republic of moldova with political and financial support, visa-free travel and, why not, when political conditions allow, full membership of the european union.
i am deeply sorry for the tragic incident that took place last week in toulouse. he proves once again, if need be, that extremism, xenophobia and intolerance are victims. such attitudes exist, unfortunately, in more and more countries in europe. mohamed merah was not a stranger in france, an immigrant, someone who came from outside, like a roma person from eastern europe. on the contrary, he was a french citizen. those who think that immigrants are to blame for all the bad things happening in their country will likely begin to see that they are wrong. and after this tragedy, other colleagues in the european parliament will also understand the attitude of eastern europeans two weeks ago, when the anti-immigrant romanian, polish and bulgarian pvv website was discussed. it took a tragedy to make us realize once again that intolerance kills.
we are all aware that the peaceful coexistence of the peoples of europe requires mutual respect and understanding, and the knowledge and acceptance of each other's culture and symbols. this is even more important when two national communities live in the same country, or even in the same city. this is also the case in the romanian town of maros, where the romanian and hungarian communities make up roughly half of the town's population. however, despite the ethnic proportions, there is currently no elementary school named after a hungarian historical figure in this city. each educational institution is named after a romanian person. a recently launched parental initiative to name an institution after a former mayor of the city of hungarian nationality is blocked by the school management and the romanian majority of the local parliament. i think that in this situation we should follow the same principles that led to the peaceful coexistence of the peoples of europe. mutual respect and understanding, which can only be the first step in a multiethnic city, to allow multilingualism to be applied at the level of symbols.
implementing the european union's economic strategy requires decisive action to stimulate growth and job creation. further efforts are needed at european union level to achieve the single market and in particular to complete the digital single market by 2015. i emphasise the important role of industry in growth, competitiveness, exports and job creation in europe as a driver of productivity and innovation. identifying the industrial areas in which the european union can be internationally competitive, providing the necessary skills and qualifications, and providing the necessary industrial infrastructure and raw materials should become a priority for the european union and the member states. only by investing in research and innovation and in an ambitious and eco-efficient industrial policy can the union ensure both job creation within the european union and its international competitiveness.
the agreement reached following the interinstitutional negotiations was to maintain the 'food for the most deprived' programme with the same funding from the union budget until 2013. but unfortunately some member states have spoken in favour of abolishing the mechanism altogether beyond this year. over 18 million european citizens have benefited from food through the 'food for the most deprived' programme and 80 million europeans live below the poverty line. i just want to make one point. there is hunger and poverty in the european union too and we cannot ignore this reality, which has been deepened by the economic crisis. the figures cited illustrate the need to maintain this programme in the future. it would be inhuman to abandon this program at a time that is proving increasingly difficult. poverty is not going to go away in 2013, so we need this program beyond this year. it must remain a european programme, as it has been since its inception, and enjoy the same funding as it has so far. i therefore ask the commission to determine where this can be placed in the future multiannual financial framework, but i am strongly opposed to any attempt to impose national co-financing. discussions on the future multiannual financial framework are already under way, but the continuation of this programme is not yet publicly discussed. i would ask the commission to guarantee that this programme will not be completely ignored in the discussions on the drawing up of the new multiannual financial framework.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, firstly i welcome parliament’s support for the programme. as you know, eur 2.5 billion has been proposed by the commission in the next multiannual financial framework. the commission does indeed have the intention to exercise its right of initiative. i agree that food assistance forms part of our wider efforts to fight poverty in society and most likely this can only be accepted if it is part of a coherent set of instruments to promote social inclusion, and in particular instruments that will be financed from the european social fund. in response to ms cornelissen and several other honourable members, i want to say that we do indeed want to fight for food assistance to be continued in the future too, as we have proposed, but we are aware that either an agreement or a definitive rejection has to be known early enough for food banks and charity organisations to be able to adapt to the decision. to those who ask why we should have this programme, our answer is that, at a time when we have very concrete and commonly agreed targets for employment and for the fight against poverty, the european union simply cannot ignore the fact that more than 43 million europeans cannot afford a meal with protein every second day, and that over seven million of our children do not have three meals a day simply because their parents are too poor. in the face of this reality european solidarity cannot just be seen as an ideal, but becomes instead a moral imperative.
in writing. i welcome the vote by the management committee of the eu food programme for 2012. in the context of the current general crisis, the allocation of additional funds to help those in need is a positive signal. i would remind you of one of the principles of the new programme: priority must be given to products originating in the union. thus, by purchasing the food covered by the programme directly from the market, the european economy is also promoted. i stress the importance of cooperation with the non-governmental sector to prepare the necessary food stocks in a timely manner. the transfer of food storage costs to charitable organisations is also welcome. i would like to draw your attention to the campaign organised by the commission in cooperation with the european association of professional football leagues. it aims to raise public awareness of the scourge of hunger in the world and is supported by the fao.
in writing. the european union is not doing enough to meet the basic needs of its citizens, who are deeply affected by the economic crisis we are experiencing. we develop complex strategies to combat poverty and social exclusion, and then repackage them to hide the inability to produce a real, visible improvement in living conditions. european leaders are overly concerned with saving the banking system as poverty deepens in europe. i would remind you that an important objective of the europe 2020 strategy is to reduce by at least 20 million the number of people living in poverty by the year 2020. it is disappointing in this context that several member states have chosen to express their opposition to the continuation of support for the most deprived citizens from the cap budget. i welcome the unblocking of the negotiations and the continuation of the programme until the end of 2013 as a result of the efforts of the commission and the european parliament - but at the same time i would like to express my hope that solidarity with the most vulnerable will not have an expiry date in 2013.
in writing. the right to food is a fundamental right that all people should enjoy. the european programme for the disadvantaged has contributed to the objectives of social policy, alongside its agricultural dimension in the common agricultural policy. the programme has proved to be an important tool for certain categories of people affected by poverty, especially in the context of the current economic and financial crisis. i appreciate that this programme will continue this year because in romania alone, in 2011, ngos came to the aid of over 2 800 000 people with very low incomes. but i think it is vital that this aid continues into the future and i think it is necessary to support the disadvantaged at a european level comparable to this year, because the needy must continue to be assisted. member states which object must demonstrate their understanding of the situation of the poor and accept the continuation of the programme within the parameters required. that is why i believe that the inclusion of this aid programme in the european social fund is necessary and represents a solidarity attitude with all european citizens who need support.
in writing. i would like to welcome the commission's willingness to get involved in the fight against poverty, both through the significant percentage it is committed to propose for the european social fund and the european globalisation adjustment fund, and through its willingness to identify solutions for the continuation of food aid programmes. however, a distinction must be made between the two categories. the esf and the egf are obviously programmes designed to provide long-term solutions. food aid programmes, on the other hand, respond to immediate intervention needs and target the most vulnerable categories of european citizens. on behalf of the 17 000 families in my constituency in the european parliament who benefit from such aid, i ask the parliament, the council and the commission to make it possible to continue the programme beyond 2013.
in writing. the programme for the provision of food to the most deprived persons was established by regulation 3730/1987. over more than two decades, the programme has contributed not only to poverty reduction and the implementation of eu social policy, but also to the achievement of common agricultural policy (cap) objectives such as stabilising markets and ensuring reasonable prices for products delivered to consumers. unfortunately, some member states have called for the cap funding for this programme to be phased out. however, the commission has proposed and the european parliament and the council of the eu have approved the continuation of the programme in 2012-13 through the cap, at a value of eur 500 million/year. the programme has contributed to the distribution of some 440 000 tonnes of food to 18 million disadvantaged people in 19 member states each year. we call for the programme to continue beyond 2013 and we call on the commission to integrate it correctly into the future multiannual financial framework so that it continues to contribute to both the eu's social and cap objectives. i consider that the funding of the programme from the european social fund alone is not appropriate as it would mean a decrease in the funds allocated to other social measures to combat poverty and increase social inclusion.
we are dealing with an undeniable reality. the union cannot overcome the recession it is experiencing by applying austerity measures alone. it needs solid economic growth, and that is built through investment in research, development and infrastructure. in this context, the european parliament today asks the eib governor to approve a significant capital increase for the bank. we must act quickly to encourage sustainable industries and job creation. i have already said this in the european investment bank's 2009 report and i will repeat the same idea today. the european commission has a duty to introduce project bonds as soon as possible, preferably before the 2014-2020 budget period. finally, i would like to draw attention to the fact that the eib should give priority to investment projects located in the regions and member states which are experiencing the greatest economic difficulties and the most serious liquidity problems.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the european investment bank on the fact that in the last three years it has almost doubled its activity and financial results. i also want to congratulate them on the way they have thought about their strategy for 2011-13 and again welcome the fact that the future multiannual financial framework will also have the support of the european investment bank which i hope will play a much more important role in the coming period, both as a factor of economic recovery but, more than that, for the sustainable economic development of the european union. however, i think it is very important to encourage those member states of the european union which are in financial difficulty and cannot co-finance projects from european funds to turn to the european investment bank for support. let us think about those sources so that the absorption of european funds is much more important and much stronger in the eastern european states, especially because we need to use european funds effectively.
the role of the european investment bank in tackling the current economic and financial crisis or in achieving the objectives of strategy 2020 is unquestionable. i therefore believe that this institution must continue its efforts to support the european union's economy and to promote economic, social and territorial cohesion, with particular emphasis on projects for the less developed regions. it is particularly important that, in terms of lending volume, public-private partnership projects accounted for 32% of eib lending for the trans-european transport networks in 2010. in a context of increasingly limited public funding, i believe that targeting eib investments towards such projects will be a real help in complementing efforts at local and regional level. these partnerships are vital for the european union to be able to make the necessary investments in certain areas such as infrastructure and the services sector, and i suggest that the commission make concrete improvements in strengthening the public-private partnership.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to start by saluting the efforts of the european commission to reinforce eu citizenship by giving real substance to citizens’ rights. this was done by introducing the report on citizenship in october 2010. this is indeed what we need in the eu: to take steps forward by engaging member states, institutions and citizens to fully respect eu law and lift obstacles to the free movement of our citizens. so far the eu has been less successful and has not given enough priority to ensuring the legal framework is applied in practice. as a result, the free movement of persons has developed less than the other three freedoms. over the last years an increasing number of petitions have been registered with respect to problems encountered by eu citizens who exercise their right to free movement, accounting for approximately 25% of the total number of petitions received. also some progress has been achieved following the adoption of the parliament report on application of the free movement directive in 2008, of which i was the rapporteur, and also the publication of the commission’s guidelines for implementation of the free movement directive. numerous petitions bear witness to the fact that there are still many problems related to the implementation of the directive: unjustified administrative burdens, particularly for third-country-national family members, including entry requirements and lengthy procedural delays; a lack of recognition of free movement rights for certain registered partners, including those in a same-sex relationship; public policy exceptions to serve economic or security aims which have ignored the principle of proportionality, especially in abuses of expulsion orders; discrimination towards certain nationals and ethnic communities. these are just a few examples of such breaches of european citizens’ fundamental rights. there is a large gap between the expectation of citizens, who increasingly take free movement for granted and expect the spirit of the treaty and the legislation to be respected, and the practice of national authorities who insist more on the conditions and exceptions. to achieve real free movement as well as eu citizenship, member states need to be pushed to do it, to change their laws and administrative practices. the only institution that can do it is the one that is charged with the task of being the guardian of the treaties, the european commission. an important number of petitions highlighted the problems encountered by citizens on the mutual recognition and free circulation of civil status documents and their effects. procedures for the recognition of documents can be extremely time-consuming and involve many costs, especially with regard to translation and authentication. there are even member states which refuse to issue certificates of civil status to persons who intend to engage in a partnership or marriage in another member state. since free movement rights are guaranteed by a mix of european laws and national implementing measures, citizens often find themselves caught up in red tape, being asked to produce an excessive number of documents in original form or authenticated copies and translations. the problem with the recognition of professional qualifications brings delays in job applications that can take months, even years, preventing even the attempt to access the labour market. this hampers labour mobility, which has a positive impact on economic growth. so on and so forth. we have been discussing in the committee on petitions all these obstacles which citizens encounter in exercising their rights as european citizens. let me conclude by saying that this citizenship report is based on the petitions received from the citizens who address us with their concerns and worries, expecting the european parliament to protect their rights guaranteed by the treaty. the signal we are going to give today by voting on this report is an important one. the rights achieved by our citizens should be respected by all, no matter the political family we belong to or the country we come from.
the report shows that although the right to free movement and residence is the most widely recognised among citizens, it is the right to which the most complaints are made, based on the number of petitions submitted. this means that the eu is most associated by eu citizens with the right to free movement, and the disappearance of physical and virtual borders between member states is arguably the most popular achievement of integration. at the same time, citizens are the most sensitive to the violations of rights related to this. the petitions submitted do indeed point to a number of irregularities, but we must not forget that citizens of two member states still cannot feel equal to other eu citizens. and they get no sound answer to their question as to why. the inexplicable delay in the accession of bulgaria and romania to schengen is a violation of the rights of citizens of both member states related to citizenship of the union. would it take 27 million petitions to change that?
i believe that designating 2013 as the 'european year of citizens' will increase awareness of citizens' electoral rights in the 2014 european parliament elections, remove obstacles to citizens' rights. there is currently a severe lack of trust in the political class and citizens want better representation and more effective involvement in european decision-making. in 2013, we can regain citizens' trust through a series of measures such as uniform access to treatment in all eu member states, removing the obstacles faced by people with disabilities when exercising their right to free movement, achieving genuine economic and territorial cohesion for all european citizens, better promoting the european citizens' initiative, which will come into force on 1 april 2012, and, last but not least, accepting romania and bulgaria into the schengen area.
in accordance with article 45 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the guarantee of freedom of movement for workers entails the elimination of all forms of discrimination based on nationality between workers of the member states as regards employment, remuneration and other conditions of work and employment. we demand the removal of the existing barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers. those barriers affect migrant workers and nationals of the member state of destination equally, since they favour social dumping. as 2013 is the 'european year of citizenship', i welcome the launch of the ocs online collection application, which was developed by the commission through the isa programme and will allow signatories of a petition and a citizens' initiative to use the same standard online forms in a secure manner from 1 april 2012. i congratulate the rapporteur, mrs adina vallelean, on her report.
vice-president of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would also like to thank mrs adina-ioana vălean for her excellent work and the house for the interest shown in the citizenship report 2010. as vice-president rehn has pointed out, the european parliament has a crucial role to play in strengthening citizenship policy. the commission's report identifies obstacles that citizens still have to overcome when exercising their rights, particularly in a crossborder context, and identifies 25 actions to overcome these problems. i am pleased to announce that next week, as the person responsible for industrial policy and the internal market in goods, i will be proposing to the college the adoption of one of these actions, a legislative proposal which will simplify the formalities and procedures relating to the registration of cars previously registered in another member state. i also want to respond to some of the comments that have been made during the debate about your concern to inform citizens of their rights. this is essential and is why we have created the your europe portal which allows citizens to receive detailed information about their rights in their mother tongue. as regards the integration of roma citizens, a european framework was adopted last year, and under this framework member states are obliged to establish national strategies for the integration of roma. i am also thinking of the delicate problem of the schooling of roma children and the exploitation of roma children. the commission has received these strategies and will present a report in april this year. during the european year of citizens, the commission will also present its second citizenship report, which will take stock of the progress already made and propose new actions to make our union an area of rights and justice for citizens. a public consultation to involve citizens in this activity will be launched on europe day on 9 may this year. we have also proposed that 2013 be the year of the citizen, so that citizens can be better informed and have a debate on the development of the union. ladies and gentlemen, this proposal is now in your hands and in the council's hands and we hope that an agreement can be reached in a short time. finally, on 1 april, the commission's website will launch the 'citizens' initiative', which will also be a tool to strengthen the relationship between citizens and the european commission and thus strengthen the link between europeans and the community institutions. it seems to me to be another strong signal that the institution i represent wants to give to half a billion europeans.
rapporteur. − mr president, the 2010 eurobarometer survey shows that only 42% of europeans know their rights, while the special eurobarometer from 2011 reveals that 85% of europeans lack sufficient information about the charter of fundamental rights. a citizens’ europe for and by the people will only be successful when we ensure that people can exercise their rights in full knowledge of what those rights are and how to benefit from them. in this context, i welcome the commission’s proposal to declare 2013 as the european year of citizens, aiming to enhance awareness of their rights and the advantages attached to european citizenship. however, looking at the budget allocated for the preparation and implementation of this european year – eur 1 million, the smallest ever budget envisaged for such a year – i can only imagine that it will allow for top-down communication measures and not for the tangible actions boosted so often by the commission. i also want to draw attention once again to the request made by the committee on culture and education for a comprehensive communication policy on citizens’ rights. let me conclude by saying that, for this report today, i have tabled, thanks to the support of 120 colleagues from different political families, an amendment with a paragraph which was unfortunately voted down in the committee on petitions. the paragraph called on the member states to ensure freedom of movement for all eu citizens and their families without discrimination on grounds of their sexual orientation or nationality. i expect all the democratic and pro-european groups in this house to support the report in the vote today in plenary and not act as if on a battlefield, as they normally do in the petitions committee, because the report is based on what citizens are requesting and their problems; it is based on petitions and not on wishful thinking, and it should be voted for, no matter what political orientation or country we come from. my thanks to my colleagues for their work, their kind words and their contributions to this report.
in writing. in order for european citizenship not to remain a mere concept and to bring concrete opportunities for citizens, i believe that there are some legislative, implementation and, above all, information gaps that need to be closed. european citizenship will be a reality when settling in another member state does not bring additional difficulties to the situation in the country of origin. at the legislative level, improving the system for the recognition of professional qualifications, facilitating the portability of pensions and other social rights, broader access to banking services or facilitating the re-registration of motor vehicles when they are moved from one state to another are just a few examples of the reforms needed. european citizens are not just consumers. these are people who get married, divorced, inherited, and so on. when the partners are of different nationalities or have lived in several member states, these circumstances need not complicate matters. we recently passed the succession regulations. we need such initiatives, which set clear rules and simplify people's lives in cross-border situations. last but not least, information plays a crucial role. the 'your europe' portal has been transformed, it provides ample information on different initiatives and i believe it needs to be further promoted and developed.
i would like to add the word 'voluntary' to paragraph 18a, to make the term clearer.
i voted in favour of this report because i support the establishment of a wider scope for standardised otc contracts. those provisions are necessary to improve transparency and better manage systemic risks in the otc derivatives market. it is also necessary to introduce uniform requirements in order to ensure the smooth functioning of ccps and trade repositories. i support the need to create stronger tools so that firms can better bear the risks they take. a well-defined proportion must be maintained in regulations to avoid high costs and increased prices for consumers. it is also necessary to apply the compensation obligation uniformly in all member states in order for the payment to function under normal conditions.
i voted for this resolution because i want stability in the balkans. but to move forward on its european path, serbia must fully meet the copenhagen criteria, including on the protection of minorities. i stress in this context the need for the rights of the vlachs in the timoc valley to be respected. i am referring in particular to the right to self-identification and to the preservation of ethnic and cultural identity, including through the provision of education in the romanian language. i draw attention to the protocol signed by romania and serbia on the protection of minorities. i ask the belgrade authorities to make every effort to ensure that the document is implemented on the basis of an appropriate timetable. i also point out the importance of cross-border cooperation for regional well-being, including in the framework of the eu strategy for the danube region.
i voted against this resolution because it does not reflect reality and does not respect the official position of my country. there are five member states, including romania, that do not recognize kosovo's independence. it is their sovereign right, because the recognition of a state is a national prerogative and the european parliament should not intervene in this matter. in the afet committee i proposed several amendments together with my colleague, mr cristi preda. they suggested neutral language on the state of kosovo, so that the text of the resolution could be supported by all. i regret that this pragmatic approach has not been upheld. i would remind you that the european parliament's objective must be stability in the region, not trying to put pressure on member states in matters of national sovereignty.
i voted for this resolution because relations with turkey are of strategic importance in economic, energy, foreign and security policy. the events in the southern neighbourhood have further highlighted the positive role that ankara can play in the region. i therefore call on the high representative and the council to intensify dialogue and cooperation with turkey, especially with regard to areas in the immediate vicinity of the union. i also invite the turkish authorities to actively support and contribute to the implementation of union policies and programmes in the black sea region. i would point out that romania and turkey signed a strategic partnership in december 2011 based on the following priority areas: strengthening economic cooperation, energy, foreign security policy and the fight against terrorism.
i voted for this report because i think it is timely, in the context of the warnings of a new recession in the euro area. the european business environment needs a clear and predictable legal framework. corporate social responsibility must be a priority in the approach of businesses. i would point out the importance of the rules governing the independent audit of european companies. a high degree of transparency is also needed in order to avoid the mistakes that triggered the current crisis. i also believe that the dual system of administration, which is as widespread in europe as the unitary system, should be promoted. the integration of the two variants into the new legal framework will ensure the coherence of the commercial circuit. as shadow rapporteur on corporate governance in financial institutions, i recall the importance of strict minimum standards for good governance in the financial sector in the union.
i voted in favour of this report because i support the continuation of the eib's policies aimed at supporting the real economy at european level. i welcome the eib's achievements in 2010 in the recovery of the european economy in the context of the economic and monetary crisis. furthermore, it is essential to continue efforts in the same direction, mainly by supporting the europe 2020 strategy. eib financing operations are necessary for the performance of the union's activities. i also support the position of the rapporteur, mrs ivanova, to give more support to smes through the eib. i also welcome the eib's initiative to align with the eu's climate change objectives. in 2010, the eib financed projects in romania totalling eur 410 million, with the main sectors targeted being energy and services.
i voted in favour of mrs vallelian's report because it presents very timely proposals for removing obstacles to the rights of european citizens. as a member of the peti commission, i am aware of the main concerns of citizens regarding compliance with community law. i would like to draw attention to the reference to the promotion of the rights of the roma minority in europe, by which this document joins the union's strategy in this field. i also welcome the mention of the resolution on the free movement of romanian workers, which i initiated with my colleagues, ungureanu and marinescu. i believe that this topic needed to be included in this report, also in view of recent developments regarding the schengen area and the anti-immigrant website of the pvv. i call on european decision-makers to take account of the conclusions of this report and to take appropriate action.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe it is essential to clarify the eu's legal status in international organisations. the proposed amendments to the group's constitutive act allow for effective participation of the union in the decision-making process within the group. i also stress the particularly important role played by the group in combating the volatility of raw material prices in this industry. in the current economic context, both the primary and the derivatives markets need to be transparent. another element to be taken into account is the environmental conditions, which have deteriorated considerably in the raw material harvesting areas. i would also like to remind you of the importance of ensuring free and low-priced access to the international rubber market. and stronger cooperation between the major producers and the major consumers is essential to this end.
in writing. − i believe that in recent years significant price increases and their increased volatility have had an impact on certain raw materials, including natural rubber. therefore, the analysis of this phenomenon showed that the origin of these developments is the increasing demand, in particular from china. i believe that the restrictions affecting the short-term supply, the low number of rubber trees planted, the abundant rainfall in the main producing countries have put pressure on the global rubber supply.
in writing. - welcomes the commission's decision to amend the rules on air passenger transport, which is designed to strengthen one of the most important services that gives substance to the freedom of movement of citizens of the member states in the european area; the amendments covered by this legislative proposal outline a clear and coherent framework for protecting the interests and rights of passengers, without however neglecting their responsibilities as beneficiaries of transport services. it is important that european passengers have access to timely services and to ways of challenging and redressing any damage caused by their interaction with airlines.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that adequate protection of the rights of air passengers must be ensured. i would stress the importance of making all information on travel conditions available to passengers from the moment they purchase their ticket, in the language in which the booking is made and in a format that is as easy to understand as possible. i also intend to ensure transparency as regards the final price of the ticket and any additional fees and charges that may apply. it is of the utmost importance that passengers can receive information and assistance quickly in the event of unforeseen flight events, such as cancellations or very long delays. in this context, i support the proposals for the presence of contact persons or services at airports and the establishment by airlines of accessible and efficient call centres. i would point out that simplified procedures are needed for submitting possible complaints and claims for compensation or reimbursement. i welcome the idea of establishing a european award for the most accessible airline to consumers. i believe that this will stimulate competition and promote best practice.
in writing. − knowing your rights is essential for all people travelling by air. for this reason, i believe that information on passenger rights should be provided in a simple, appropriate and easy-to-understand form at all essential stages of the journey, starting from the moment when the passenger is thinking about buying a ticket. in the event of disruption to the journey, passengers should be informed in good time of the reasons for the delay or cancellation, the estimated duration of the delay and alternative travel options, including by other means of transport, where appropriate. i also think that the three options that the passenger can choose from, namely reimbursement, redirection or a new booking, should be emphasised as an elementary right. last but not least, passengers whose baggage is lost or arrives late should enjoy equivalent rights to those of passengers who have themselves been delayed.
in writing. − i believe that the european commission should look at measures to ensure the protection of passengers arriving and departing, ensuring that passengers are adequately compensated in the event of loss or excessive delay of luggage.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the functioning and application of established rights of people travelling by air, because it represents a very positive step forward in terms of protecting passengers’ rights, in particular paying due attention to people with reduced mobility. this document contains significant improvements on the previous eu regulation no 261/2004 in terms of consumer-rights’ safeguards, security, transparency and privacy of the passengers, and pays attention to flight safety conditions and to complaint handling – introducing standards that companies will therefore have to comply with. in addition, further cooperation, collaboration, exchanges of practice, and a more uniform application of the eu rules by the member states’ enforcement bodies will be called for. this will surely provide stronger guarantees not only in terms of compliance with rules but also in terms of delivering higher levels of protection for passengers – whose rights are often not respected and who have lacked information.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on air passenger rights because i believe it is important not only to guarantee passenger rights through legislation, but also to ensure that they are functional and, above all, that they are properly applied. the role of enforcement bodies has been strengthened and the provision to bring them together in a european network will help to improve their cooperation and thus the results achieved. we voted for more transparency and accountability, for better complaint handling and for the introduction of a single european complaint form. we've asked operators and airlines for regular reports to increase efficiency of enforcement agencies and competition. clarifying and strengthening existing rights and explaining them to consumers was the reason for parliament's request to continue the passenger information campaign launched by the commission in 2010. i also voted for the clear interpretation and uniform application of the regulations on passenger rights in the european union.
in writing. - i welcome the adoption of this resolution and in particular some of the requirements expressed, such as the harmonisation of rules on hand luggage or the prohibition on the display of unclear prices or additional charges at the time of booking. it is also important to establish rules against unilateral rescheduling of flights and to discourage price discrimination against passengers on the basis of country of residence. i believe that such measures are in the interests of the citizens who travel, who are increasing in number every year.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the functioning and enforcement of the rights of persons travelling by air as it is essential that passengers are provided with complete, easily understandable, accurate and timely information by both air carriers and tour operators. we ask air carriers to ensure that there are contact persons or a service at each airport from which they operate who can take immediate decisions, in particular on assistance, reimbursement, redirection, lost or delayed baggage, rebooking and complaints. we call on the commission to ensure the effective application and enforcement of existing legislation on price transparency, to ensure that the price displayed correctly reflects the final price. we call for the protection of passengers against abusive contractual clauses such as contractual issues related to damaged/ delayed/ mishandled baggage, ticket transferability, force majeure circumstances, unilateral rescheduling of flights, prohibition of use of return ticket if the departure ticket has not been used, excessive restrictions on hand baggage. we support the elimination of the abusive practice of requiring persons with reduced mobility (prm) to sign a document exonerating the airline from liability in the event of damage to prm mobility equipment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this draft legislative resolution because i firmly believe there is an urgent need for a europe-wide system based on enhanced solidarity, which also has to be extended to third- country nationals as well as citizens of europe. a crucial point, in my opinion, must be highlighted: the european union should help those member states willing to undertake reform of refugees’ resettlement by providing them with sufficient funds. eu policy in this regard should also follow a more efficient and rationalised pathway, in particular by pursuing a set of key priorities. i strongly believe that the first of these priorities should be to provide help and assistance to the most vulnerable people, who face traumatic and precarious living and social conditions. in conclusion, i positively welcome this document which constitutes an important step towards greater solidarity in the management of migration flows.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's legislative resolution amending decision no 573/2007/ec establishing the european refugee fund for the period 2008 to 2013. this regulation establishes the asylum and migration fund, developed with the assistance of the european refugee fund, the european fund for the integration of third-country nationals and the european return fund. the regulation extends this process to cover more comprehensively different aspects of the union's common asylum and immigration policy, including actions in third countries. the commission proposal provides for the allocation of eur 3,869 million to the asylum and migration fund for the period 2014-2020. more than 80% of this amount should be used for member states' national programmes, while eur 637 million should be managed by the commission to finance union actions, emergency assistance, the european migration network, technical assistance and the implementation of specific operational tasks by union agencies. i believe that a well-organised policy on legal immigration, in line with the stockholm programme and supported by the union's legal instruments, has a central role to play in ensuring the union's long-term competitiveness and its social model.
in writing. − this initiative is part of a wider series of actions at international level aimed at bringing more stability to the financial system in general and the otc derivatives market in particular. as regards non-financial (corporate) counterparties, they will in principle not be covered by this regulation unless their otc derivative positions reach a threshold considered to be systemically important. as it is assumed that, in general, their derivative transactions are directly related to trading activities rather than speculative ones, those positions will not be subject to this regulation. i consider that the national competent authorities should reserve the responsibility for authorisation (including withdrawal of authorisations granted) and supervision, as they are best placed to analyse the day-to-day operation of ccps, to carry out regular reviews and to take appropriate action whenever necessary. given the systemic importance of ccps and the cross-border nature of their activities, it is important that the european securities and markets authority plays a central role in the process of their authorisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on otc derivatives, central counterparties (ccps) and central transaction logs. it lays down the conditions for the authorisation of ccps, the screening criteria to ensure the appropriate characteristics for central clearing and the registration of derivatives in central trade repositories where the aggregated information can be used, including for systemic risk analysis. ccps are regulated by the prudential regulators of banks in most member states and at european level, the eba has the most expertise, so close cooperation between esma and the eba is essential. the proposed amendments to the regulation clarify certain definitions, facilitate certain procedures, help to avoid 'clearing shocks' and other disproportionate burdens on businesses, propose to remove the information threshold, consider that the clearing threshold provides sufficient assurance, introduce consistent and transparent criteria for regulatory decisions, clarify the procedures for determining the eligibility for clearing of otc derivatives and counterparties. while promoting the resilience and transparency of derivatives markets, the regulation also aims to maintain the efficiency of those markets in covering both financial and non-financial end-users. maintaining the international character of this market promotes both objectives when supported by cooperation between supervisors and convergent international standards.
in writing. − this directive lays down minimum requirements, giving member states the possibility to maintain or adopt more favourable provisions for the protection of workers, in particular to set lower levels for the guide values and limit values for exposure to electromagnetic fields. a system of protection against electromagnetic fields must be limited to the definition of the objectives to be achieved, the principles to be observed and the fundamental values to be applied. the protection of workers exposed to electromagnetic fields requires an effective and efficient risk assessment. this obligation must be proportionate to the situation encountered at the workplace. it is therefore important to define a protection system that establishes a gradual scale of risks that is easy to understand. employers should adapt to technical progress and scientific knowledge of the risks associated with exposure to electromagnetic fields in order to improve the safety and health protection of workers. in view of scientific progress and the increasing use in various fields of equipment generating electromagnetic fields with a well-defined purpose and useful to society, i call on the member states to allocate the necessary funds to the field of research for the detection as fine as possible of the negative effects produced by exposure of the human body to electromagnetic fields.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of directive 2004/40/ec on the minimum safety and health requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields). in 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a directive to replace directive 2004/40/ec. the aim of the new directive is to ensure a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers, while allowing the continuation and development of medical and industrial activities using electromagnetic fields. proposal com ((2011) 348 aims to update and improve a significant number of provisions of directive 2004/40/ec, including by introducing elements that make it easier for employers, in particular small enterprises, to implement the measures. the amendment proposed by the commission by com ((2012) 15) only affects the obligation of member states to transpose directive 2004/40/ec by 30 april 2012, the deadline being extended until 31 october 2013. the amendment does not affect the substance of the directive in question and therefore does not impose additional obligations on undertakings. the extension of the transposition deadline to 31 october 2013 will give parliament and the council sufficient time to debate and reach a compromise, on the basis of the commission proposal com ((2011) 348), for a new directive, which will update and improve the provisions of directive 2004/40/ec, while repealing and replacing the previous directive.
in writing. − in the eu, excise duties apply to three categories of products: alcohol and alcoholic beverages, processed tobacco and energy products. these excise duties play an important role in influencing public behaviour and contributing to the public budgets of the member states and the eu. the european union has progressively developed and put into practice a new and modern system for monitoring the movement of products under excise duty suspension in the internal market excise movement and control system (emcs). more importantly, the new system should allow the relevant authorities to track the movement of goods in 'real time' and to compare the information immediately, which will allow for a faster and more detailed analysis of the information. a large part of the proposal concerns the legal rules on how administrative cooperation should take place under the new system. i consider that the proposal is a balanced approach, which will allow member states to take advantage of the advantages inherent in the new system without increasing the administrative burden for them or for economic operators.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties because the creation of a european tax union should include a comprehensive, rapid, efficient, accessible and, as far as possible, automatic exchange of information between member states, with a view to combating tax evasion more effectively. the provisions of regulation (ec) no 2073/2004 establish a legal framework for administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties. those provisions need to be revised to take account of the introduction of the computerised system for the movement and control of excise goods. other proposed changes to the regulation are to remove provisions that are no longer relevant, to structure the text in a more logical way, and to take account of new administrative cooperation procedures in the field of excise duties and other areas in order to provide a more efficient and less burdensome regulatory framework for both excise authorities and economic operators. i voted for the amendment which calls on the commission to set up a new vat and excise forum, modelled on the joint transfer pricing forum, in which companies can address issues relating to vat on companies and disputes between member states. the commission is to present to parliament and the council a report on excise fraud by 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the estimate of parliament's revenue and expenditure for the financial year 2013. in paragraph 8, parliament defends the principle of multilingualism and stresses the uniqueness of the european parliament in terms of translation and interpretation needs. in paragraph 16 parliament insists that funding should be granted only to parties which strictly respect the founding principles of the eu and the charter of fundamental rights. paragraph 11 also underlines parliament's willingness to contribute to maintaining budgetary discipline by freezing all travel budget lines and suspending the indexation of all individual allowances of members until the end of the parliamentary term. i voted against paragraph 2 of the resolution which states that the places where parliament's work is carried out should be limited to a single seat for members and officials, as they cannot be limited without a corresponding amendment to the union treaties. i voted against amendment 2, which considers it unnecessary to conduct an information campaign on the 2014 elections, which the bureau includes in its estimate. i also voted against amendment no 8, which calls for the abolition of the european journalism prize, and against amendments nos 9 and 6, which call for the funding of the house of european history to be stopped and the project to be dissolved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the request for mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) submitted by spain for the building sector in the valencia region. as from 1 may 2009, the scope of the egf was extended to provide support to workers affected by the economic and financial crisis and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. the request concerns 1 138 redundancies in 513 construction companies in the region of valencia, spain, between july and november 2011. spain pointed out that unemployment in the region had increased in 2010 by 12,2% compared to 2009 and by 309% compared to 2007, the year before the crisis. in 2010, workers made redundant in the construction sector accounted for 28.18% of the total redundancies in the region, compared to only 6.3% in 2007. we call on the commission and the member states to ensure a swift and smooth procedure for the adoption of decisions to mobilise the egf, with the objective of helping workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. we call on the commission and the member states to monitor the integration into the labour market of the beneficiaries of this egf mobilisation request.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it appropriate, given that both parliament and the council have equal powers under the ordinary legislative and budgetary procedures. in view of the new institutional balance after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, there is no longer any reason to maintain the council's question time in its current form. the role of the european parliament has increased significantly, becoming a co-legislator within the european union. it also created new institutions, such as the european council and its permanent president, the high representative or the eurogroup. in view of the recent developments in interinstitutional relations, i believe that it is essential to revise the rules of procedure of the european parliament. however, i also support the rapporteur's view that the priority should be to change the time allocated to questions to the council. at the same time, i consider it useful to maintain the possibility of putting questions to the council, within a specified period of question time, on matters relating to the council's powers which are not related to the exercise of its legislative and budgetary functions.
in writing. − i believe that the conference of presidents, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, which made parliament a co-legislator within the european union and gave it powers equal to those of the council under the ordinary legislative procedure and the budgetary procedure, must highlight this new institutional balance. i agree that the conference of presidents considers that the possibility of allocating time for questions not only to the president of the commission but also to the vice-president/high representative and the president of the eurogroup should be maintained.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a parliament decision on amending the rules of procedure to take into account the changing relationships between parliament and the institutions representing the national governments, because it was fundamental to update the rules of procedure after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, since changes occurred thereafter to the attribution of responsibilities and competences in the eu institutional architecture as regards legislative, budgetary and political competences. besides, i strongly believe that the european union needs to strengthen the loyal cooperation between its institutions, in order to increase the effectiveness and the functionality of the eu policy and decision-making. with regard to this, i would like to draw attention to the example of the negative experience of the schengen evaluation reports that made it evident that existing limitations have to be overcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of the rules of procedure in the light of the evolution of the european parliament's relations with the institutions representing national governments since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the european parliament's role as co-legislator within the european union has been strengthened, with powers equal to those of the council under the ordinary legislative procedure and the budgetary procedure. given this new institutional balance, the conference of presidents considered that it was no longer justified to maintain the time allocated to questions to the council in its present form on the agenda for the plenary session. the elimination of the time allocated to questions to the council, in its present form, reflects the change in the institutional balance referred to by the conference of presidents. i believe that it would be useful to maintain the possibility of putting questions to the council, within a specific period of question time, on matters relating to those council competences which are not related to the exercise of its legislative and budgetary functions. the report also does not exclude the possibility of a further in-depth study of the evolution of relations with the institutions representing national governments and the possible changes to the regulation that would result from this.
in writing. − the current global economic and political context is one which is putting the issue of democratisation back on the agenda of international debates. the revolutions in the middle east or the globalisation of the mass media and international economic networks are processes which show how important it is for the european union to live up to its role as the world's leading provider of economic aid and benevolent civil power. the establishment of a european democracy fund is both a firm guarantee that the union remains committed to promoting democratic instruments and a useful complementary instrument for the development of the union's external policies, such as the eastern partnership or the neighbourhood policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the idea of a european fund to support the democratization processes in the union's neighbourhood. to achieve its objectives, however, it must provide real added value, complementing existing instruments in a coherent and effective way. to this end, it is appropriate to focus on strengthening the basis of society in the process of democratic construction. however, clear and transparent procedures are needed, including for the methodology for selecting beneficiaries. the simplification of the financing process and flexibility are also needed, especially as regards the possibilities for rapid rescheduling of funds. i would draw attention to the importance of the appropriate involvement of the european parliament in the operationalisation of the edf. i would stress that the edf results will need to be monitored and analysed carefully to ensure its maximum effectiveness. i would point out that the implementation of the edf must support in a balanced way the processes of democratisation in both the eastern partnership and the southern neighbourhood, while respecting the principle of 'more for more'.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's recommendation to the council on the modalities for the creation of a european democracy fund (edf). the eu enshrines universal human rights and democracy as its founding values, strives to eliminate inequalities and promote equality between men and women. parliament called on the council to ensure that the edf would generate a strategic and political perspective on the eu's role in supporting democracy; to clarify the edf's mission and values in order to ensure clear criteria for the selection of beneficiaries, in particular on the methodology of selection processes; to ask the edf to guarantee the principle of national ownership of democratic processes; to ensure that the edf provides added value by complementing and not overlapping or limiting the activities of existing funding instruments and that, at the level of strategic planning, the edf cooperates with other eu instruments and structures active in the field of human rights and democracy. parliament asked the council to ensure that the edf pays particular attention to the participation of women in the process of democratic reform by supporting women's organisations and projects in areas such as combating violence, creating jobs and political participation, extending equal access to justice and education for women and girls, and preventing or stopping existing violations of women's rights.
in writing. - serbia's progress towards european integration is remarkable, considering the sacrifices of serbian citizens and the fact that the wounds of the past have not been healed. certainly, serbia is paying for the wrong decisions of the past, but it is commendable that it has taken up its responsibilities in the violent dismemberment of yugoslavia and is acting to right the wrongs done. i would like to focus on the progress serbia has made in the treatment of ethnic minorities. there is room for improvement, including with regard to the vlach minority, which has recently been the subject of a dispute between romania and serbia. i think belgrade needs to understand that one of its advantages comes from the existence of this ethnic diversity, which allows it a better relationship with its neighbors, if it uses it wisely. identity crises, inter-ethnic conflicts have done a lot of damage to the balkans in the past. serbia has a lot to do to meet european standards on the rule of law and civil rights and freedoms. the willingness of the serbian leaders to complete the necessary reforms is encouraging. the eu and its member states expect facts, fulfilment of commitments and real progress in the areas under monitoring.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution in order to acknowledge serbia’s progress towards european integration and highlight the remaining goals to be achieved for the benefit of its people. however, further efforts are needed in judiciary reform. the publication of all judgments and the unification of jurisprudence should be priorities in order to ensure public trust and a predictable and efficient judicial system. on the fight against corruption, serbian authorities must focus on high-level corruption cases. this is the test of the judiciary and of the political class. serbia needs to show a strong track-record of final convictions in high-level political cases. the efficiency of the eu funds spent on justice reform and combating corruption must also be assessed. the consistency of the rule of law throughout a nation is vital to its ability to progress politically and democratically.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on serbia's european integration as serbia can become an important actor in ensuring security and stability in the western balkans region and constructive strategies on regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are key elements of the stabilisation and association process. we welcome the significant progress made by serbia in aligning with the acquis in the field of environmental protection and call for further sustained efforts in this area, with a particular focus on enforcement. we urge the authorities to step up their efforts, especially in water quality and waste disposal, and encourage serbia to adopt climate change targets that are in line with those of the eu. we call for further efforts to create a viable public transport network in serbia, in particular to improve the railway system and inland waterway transport (corridor vii) as well as road infrastructure, including the rapid completion of european corridor x. we welcome the active role serbia is already playing in implementing the eu strategy for the danube region by assuming the role of coordinating country for the priority actions: improving mobility and intermodality and developing the knowledge society research, education and ict.
in writing. − the european union's policy towards the western balkans has been clear, consistently applied and the recent accession of croatia proves that it is fair and productive. regardless of the fact that some member states have not recognised kosovo, the construction of its statehood must respect a number of principles and values. i am afraid that these principles are not always respected and that democratic reforms are long overdue, but there are encouraging signs about the dialogue with serbia, which the eu has done everything in its power to mediate and facilitate. the eulex presence in kosovo is a positive factor in resolving many problems between the kosovo majority and the serb minority. there is also progress in cooperation within regional mechanisms. i voted in favour of this resolution not least because of its non-ultimate nature on the question of the recognition of kosovo's independence. it is a step forward, including for the recognition of the right of each eu member state to decide in this respect.
in writing. - as regards the motion for a resolution on the process of european integration in kosovo, i voted against the first part of amendment no 2, which largely retains the original text of paragraph 1 of the resolution. parliament noted that 88 countries, including 22 eu member states, had recognised kosovo's declaration of independence and stressed that parliament would welcome both the recognition of this declaration by all eu member states and their more active participation in the process of mediation between serbia and kosovo. given that the recognition of such a declaration is a prerogative of the member states and given that romania has not recognised kosovo's declaration of independence, i considered that a vote against this text respects both the eu treaties and the subsidiarity of the member states. i also voted against the second part of amendment no 2, which refers to the diplomatic pressure exerted by serbia to prevent certain countries from recognising kosovo. finally, as these texts were adopted despite the constructive criticism and recommendations of the resolution on kosovo's european integration process, i did not support the final text of the resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because turkey is one of the european union's most important economic and geostrategic partners. with a spectacularly growing economy, which has tripled in size in the last decade, turkey is one of the most representative emerging powers, and its role in the middle east stability equation and in the eu's energy supply is becoming increasingly important. the eu is turkey's main economic partner, providing 80% of foreign investment in the country. unfortunately, economic growth has not been reflected in gdp per capita and in progress in the fight against poverty, especially among women. i believe that efforts to increase girls' schooling must be followed by progress in women's integration into the workforce and their representation in decision-making. but especially in combating violence against women, more concrete steps are needed to eradicate so-called honour killings and forced marriages, and to increase protection and shelter measures for women and minors who are victims of domestic violence.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution because there is a trade interdependence between the eu and turkey, the european union being turkey's most important trading partner. however, a lack of convergence persists in many areas. one example is visa policy, with turkey being the only candidate country not benefiting from visa liberalisation. one reason is the large number of illegal immigrants who, taking advantage of turkey's pivotal position, use its borders to enter the union. turkey is also not implementing the additional protocol to the association agreement and the customs union in their entirety.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution to wind up the debate on statements by the council and the commission pursuant to rule 110(2) of the rules of procedure on the 2011 progress report on turkey, because i firmly believe that procedures for accession by turkey should proceed faster and in a manner that unlocks the current stall. today, turkey represents a fundamental partner of the eu and the accession negotiations have not been dealt with in a consistent and balanced way. the copenhagen criteria have to be considered as the only valuable guidelines for any evaluation of progress made by turkey in complying with the eu acquis. parliament should firmly reject the attempt made by conservative and reactionary groups and parties throughout europe to create obstacles to any serious discussion regarding turkey’s accession on a merely political and populist base. the future of the european union depends on its capacity to be inclusive, open to intercultural dialogue and socially and economically sustainable. the accession of turkey, once the issues as already identified have been solved, opens the way for that future to happen.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the progress made by turkey, as turkey is the union's seventh largest trading partner and the union is turkey's most important trading partner. turkey's economy has tripled in size over the last decade and grew by about 10 percent last year, making it one of the world's fastest growing economies and one of the seven largest emerging economies in the world. i emphasise turkey's economic and development potential and its significant role in regional stability and energy security. turkey is a major eu energy corridor for oil and gas resources in the caucasus and caspian sea, and the nabucco pipeline remains one of the eu's top energy security priorities. turkey also has significant potential in renewable energy from solar, wind and geothermal sources. we welcome the progress made by turkey in the field of renewable energy sources and support future efforts to increase the use of renewable energy sources in all sectors. we underline turkey's role in developing and implementing a future eu black sea strategy, as called for by parliament in its resolution of 20 january 2011.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution. i welcome the progress made by montenegro on its european path. the good neighbourly relations fostered by montenegro and its positive role in a still tense regional context, as well as the promotion of good inter-ethnic relations at home, are encouraging. evidence of this is the legislative framework for respecting minority rights, including the education law, as well as the way sensitive aspects of ethnicity were addressed in the population census. there is therefore a strong case for opening accession negotiations with montenegro in june, as promised by the european council.
in writing. − i voted for the 2011 report on montenegro's progress on enlargement. the eu and the member states aim to open accession negotiations with montenegro in june 2012. the eu is founded on the values of solidarity, tolerance and equal rights for all members of society. we draw attention to the under-representation of women in parliament, in high government positions and in decision-making positions in the public and private sectors. we welcome the significant progress made in the adoption of anti-corruption legislation, the new law on public procurement, the law on the financing of political parties and amendments to the law on conflicts of interest. we encourage montenegro to strengthen the legal framework for the rights of persons with disabilities and to improve their access to employment, including in public institutions. in view of the energy problems facing montenegro, we welcome the adoption of the government's energy policy plan until 2030. we call on the authorities to accelerate progress in the area of security of energy supply and energy efficiency and to continue their efforts to establish a regulatory framework that encourages the increasingly large-scale use of renewable energy sources in all sectors, in line with the relevant provisions of the eu renewable energy acquis.
in writing. − as a member of parliament from a country that joined the european union only five years ago, i know the importance of reports tracking the progress of countries that want to become members of the union. these reports provide incentives to continue the reforms already under way and, at the same time, provide important guidance for what the countries concerned need to do in other areas. the reports adopted today on serbia, turkey and montenegro are therefore, for better or for worse, an essential instrument for dialogue between these countries and the union.
in writing. − in a europe without internal borders, proper harmonisation of national laws and company structures in the member states is essential to ensure that european citizens can benefit from all the services and products they offer, especially in terms of cross-border trade, but also from the point of view of corporate social responsibility and their role in innovation and economic growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is a good and necessary initiative for a more transparent, stable, secure and accountable corporate sector in the eu, with better corporate governance, taking into account the complexity and type of enterprise, so that the measures to be applied to enterprises are also adapted to the needs of small and medium-sized enterprises in supporting them to be competitive. the document covers a number of issues that were unfortunately not covered in the european commission's green paper of 5 april 2011, such as: decision-making by the board, the accountability and independence of the administrators, conflicts of interest or stakeholder involvement. i consider it extremely important that the boards of directors have independent and competent persons, recruited through transparent and merit-based methods. i also voted for equal opportunities for women and men. another aspect which i welcome is the decision by the member states to limit the number of boards of directors on which a person can sit, and the fact that directors must devote sufficient time to fulfilling their duties.
in writing. - as regards the report on a corporate governance framework for european enterprises, i voted against amendment 1, which calls for an increase in the number of women on boards of directors through a flexible quota system. i voted in favour of amendment no 3, which calls on the commission to present as soon as possible comprehensive, up-to-date data on the representation of women in all types of enterprises in the eu and on the mandatory and non-mandatory measures taken by the commercial sector, as well as on the measures recently taken by the member states to increase the representation of women. the report also calls on the commission, if the exercise concludes that measures taken by member states and enterprises are inadequate, to propose by 2012 legislative acts, including quotas, to increase the representation of women on the management bodies of enterprises to 30% by 2015 and to 40% by 2020, while taking into account the responsibilities of member states and their specific characteristics in economic, structural (especially in terms of enterprise size), legal and regional terms. i also voted in favour of amendment no 4, which made significant improvements to the report.
in writing. the european investment bank has recently become one of the most important financial institutions in the european union. the increase in lending to the member states to eur 52 billion and to non-eu countries to eur 6 billion in 2010 underlines the important role that the eib continues to play on the european continent. in a context where overcoming the effects of the global economic and financial crisis is one of the key priorities of the member states and the european union, strengthening the role and instruments of the eib is essential. i believe that the activities carried out by the eib to support european economies and stimulate growth and employment must be encouraged by the european institutions and the member states. the practice of presenting the eib's annual credit reports to the european parliament should also be institutionalised as an integral part of the european union's policies to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the 2010 annual report of the european investment bank because i believe that the eib is a very important player in a europe that is short of capital and that needs massive investment in development, infrastructure and research. i support the proposal to increase the bank's capital and i also believe that it should give priority to investment projects located in the regions and member states facing the greatest economic difficulties.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2010 annual report of the european investment bank (eib) because, as established by the treaty of rome, the eib's main objective is to contribute to the development of the single market and to narrow the development gap between the various regions. eib financing operations within the eu focus on six priorities: ensuring economic and social cohesion and convergence, implementing the knowledge-based economy, developing trans-european transport and access networks, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), protecting and improving the environment, promoting sustainable communities and supporting sustainable, competitive and secure energy supply. we encourage the eib to continue its activities to support the development of the european economy and to foster growth, to stimulate employment and to promote social and territorial cohesion, with a particular focus on projects targeting less developed regions. we support the bank in its commitment to focus on the 'knowledge triangle' that brings together education, research and development and innovation. we urge the eib to increase its support for infrastructure networks in the new member states, whose level of support is still low compared to that of the eu-15 member states. we call for greater participation in the financing of infrastructure networks in the case of cross-border interconnections.
in writing. − there are still many obstacles to european citizenship, a citizenship which should give the right, among other things, to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states, to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament and to municipal elections in the member state of residence, and to consular protection. unfortunately, seven years after the entry into force of the directive on free movement, for example, many people who should benefit from it still have difficulties entering or settling in another member state. the expulsion of the roma population in 2010 by the french authorities was a flagrant violation of fundamental rights. considering that it is urgent to remove all obstacles to the rights of eu citizens, i voted in favour of the eu citizenship report in 2010.
in writing. − i believe that all eu citizens brought before the courts of a member state have the right, in order to defend themselves, to access documents translated into their mother tongue, to prevent discrimination on the basis of language, and, in particular, i believe that all citizens must be informed of any legal action against them and that the whole process must take place within a timeframe acceptable from a judicial point of view.
in writing. − i voted for the report on eu citizenship in 2010: removing obstacles to eu citizens' rights. parliament called for the removal of barriers to the free movement of eu workers and for the guidance and counselling of mobile workers on employment opportunities and living and working conditions in the eu through eures. we call for better coordination between member states to tackle issues such as double taxation or the lack of harmonisation of pension taxation for eu citizens. in the area of health, we call on the commission and the member states to better inform eu citizens about their rights to cross-border healthcare and the means available to exercise them, such as reimbursement of costs on the basis of the european health insurance card. we draw attention to the fact that doctors, midwives and nurses who are nationals of the member states that have joined the eu since 2004 have encountered problems with the recognition of their qualifications or rights acquired in a member state other than their own. we welcome the role of the information and problem-solving networks created by the commission (such as the europe ta website, europe direct, solvit, european consumer centres) to inform citizens and resolve complaints about internal market failures or limitations on the rights of eu citizens.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to, if i might, make a statement on argentina and the situation there in response to mr salafranca’s request and to the concerns of this parliament. last night the argentinian government announced that it intends to expropriate the majority stake held by the spanish company repsol in the ypf energy company. this announcement gives cause for grave concern. ypf is an important european union investment in argentina. a takeover sends a very negative signal to international investors and could seriously harm the business environment in argentina. the measure creates legal insecurity for all european union and foreign firms in the country. i am also alarmed to note that the president referred in her speech to investments in other sectors, such as telecoms and banking. this announcement adds to a number of problematic decisions taken by argentina over the past few years in the areas of import restrictions and investment policy. the government of argentina must ensure compliance with its international commitments on the treatment and protection of investments originating from the european union. as a result of this announcement, we have decided to postpone the meeting of the eu-argentina joint cooperation committee which had been scheduled to take place on friday this week. this matter will also be discussed at next monday’s foreign affairs council in luxembourg. the spanish government has our full backing in this matter. the european union delegation in argentina has conveyed these concerns to the government of argentina. the announcement was only made last night, but the commission and the external action service are studying the argentinian draft measure so as to determine the next steps. all possible options are being analysed.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. - as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development on this subject, i would like to congratulate mr howitt and welcome the integration of the totality of our suggestions into the final text. the importance of effectively integrating human rights into development cooperation is thus recognised, in line with the lisbon treaty logic of having a coherent foreign policy. in this respect, the new approach contained in the joint communication on human rights and democracy at the heart of the european union's external action is welcomed. this is an integrated human rights strategy covering the whole spectrum of union policies. but much remains to be done to make the strategy a reality. budget support should be more closely linked to the human rights and governance situation in the beneficiary countries, and the criteria for granting it should, i believe, be detailed. although difficult to bring up in times of economic crisis, another key point is the increase in funding for european mechanisms to support democracy and human rights. for the union, these are concrete means of promoting democracy and human rights in third countries.
to promote human rights effectively around the world, concrete actions and measures are needed. i therefore support the proposals in article 8 to establish clear criteria for analysing progress in this area. i would like to draw attention once again to the plight of people in areas affected by frozen conflicts. i have repeatedly stressed the need to defend their rights and asked the high representative to make further efforts to this end. i am thinking in particular of the separatist region of transnistria, where a few days ago there were new incidents at the control post of vodou. at the same time, we must not tolerate violations of fundamental rights within the union. i take this opportunity to ask the commission and the council once again to take firm action against xenophobic anti-immigrant websites launched by extremist parties in the netherlands and belgium.
the european instrument for democracy and human rights reflects the european union's commitment to promote and support democracy and human rights by supporting civil society and human rights institutions worldwide. for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, the commission proposed funding of eur 1,4 billion, compared to eur 1,1 billion for the 2007-2013 period. i stress the potential of using communications and information technology to promote human rights. we call for increased support in the area of promoting media freedom, protecting the independence of journalists and bloggers, bridging the digital divide and facilitating unrestricted access to information and communication and uncensored access to the internet. i stress the importance of a gender perspective, as well as the importance of women's involvement in conflict resolution processes.
we all hope that the withdrawal of the military coup plotters in favor of the president of the national assembly will put an end to the anti-democratic bracket mali has entered after the coup of march 22. the resignation of the deposed president may end the political crisis in this country which, after the fall of the military dictatorship in 1991, managed to remain somewhat faithful to democratic principles, but the encouraging revolutions are unfortunately overshadowed by the separatist danger from the north. i believe that, along with the strong appeal to the provisional authorities to return to democracy and to hold the elections that are expected, we must also condemn categorically the aggression of the tuaregs and the extremist groups who have unilaterally proclaimed independence in a region on the verge of a humanitarian catastrophe. we can no longer stand idly by in the face of the increasingly destructive offensive in africa by al qaeda-controlled groups, because we do not want an extremist-controlled maghreb in our neighborhood. that's not why the european union supported the arab spring.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to thank the honourable members for the comments that they have made on the unfolding situation in mali. as they have said, it is absolutely right that the european union should engage. we have a vital interest in the security, stability and development of the whole sahel region. we are firmly supportive of ecowas’ efforts and those of the neighbouring countries, and we are remaining in close contact with them regarding how we can help the political transition. i pay tribute to president ouattara who himself, not that long ago, experienced enormous difficulties in côte d’ivoire and who is now very much putting his chairmanship on the line in terms of support for the country. we remain very preoccupied with the situation in the north, and we reiterate our support for the territorial integrity of mali. we are in contact with ecowas on a number of issues, including how to work with its ideas to establish a collective force to help the new, legitimate government to restore order throughout the national territory. we have most recently decided upon a civilian csdp mission in the region and are considering what other support might be needed. finally, i am especially concerned that large numbers of people are being forced to flee the north in the middle of what is already a major food crisis. we are determined to offer our support to provide humanitarian aid everywhere we can, subject only to the physical safety of humanitarian workers. i very much look forward to the resolution that the european parliament will adopt on this matter.
in writing. i condemn the military coup in mali, the suspension of republican institutions, and the serious human rights violations by both the rebels in the north and the coup plotters in bamako. i condemn the abductions and arbitrary arrests, rapes and armed robberies, as well as the recruitment of child soldiers recently reported by the un. i stress the importance of maintaining the territorial integrity of the state of mali for the stability of the area and support calls for negotiations between the rebels and a transitional government. in this regard, i welcome the appointment of cheick modibo diarra as prime minister and hope that he will be able to form a government of national unity, as provided for in the framework agreement signed on 6 april between the junta and the economic community of west african states. it's important that the democratic transition be managed politically by civilians. to restore the authority of elected representatives, a swift organization of free and fair elections under international supervision is needed. i request the external action service to send an election observation mission as soon as the electoral calendar is announced. calls on the member states to support mali with humanitarian aid for civilians affected by the fighting in the north.
the annan plan was, i fear, the last diplomatic attempt to find a peaceful solution to the conflict that has bled syria for a year. as stated here, over 11,000 people have been killed, injured, improperly detained or forced into exile, and tens of thousands more. foreign pressure and sanctions have unfortunately not produced the desired results, and the violations of the fragile ceasefire that came into effect last thursday show that the assad regime is not sincere in its commitments to the international community. moreover, the regime in damascus has so far only made formal gestures coupled with intensifying repression. even if there is no consensus on the syrian crisis in the security council, there is the council statement of 21 march which supports the settlement plan of the un and arab league envoy kofi annan. i believe that this minimal project which proposes the cessation of violence, humanitarian aid and the release of prisoners must be respected especially in the presence of un observers.
after decades in burma, it seems that the road to reform and a democratic transition is finally opening. on april 23, aung san suu kyi will take her seat in parliament, where her party will be the main opposition force. we do not yet know whether there will be real change in this country because the political scene remains dominated by the military, and the economic situation, the clashes with insurgent groups, the treatment of minorities are still causes for concern. however, recent developments are positive and the burmese authorities should be encouraged to continue reforms. in this context, i support the gradual lifting of the sanctions imposed by the union. i believe that it will have a positive effect on democratic developments, but will also stimulate foreign investment, contributing to the economic recovery of the country.
i'm not going to let you do this. i'd like to add to what you said about minorities. peace requires more than the elimination of ethnic strife. ansan suu kyi also said that burma's peace and future depended on an agreement with the national ethnic minorities. he also believes that federalism, self-determination and territorial autonomy are satisfactory solutions for minorities. if we want to take seriously the plight of minorities in the world, then we can only do so with credibility. by taking the plight of minorities in the eu seriously, by setting an example, and by also taking the discrimination against them seriously, as was mentioned in the howitt report earlier this afternoon. indigenous national minorities also have unique needs and must be guaranteed effective equality in all areas of life throughout the world and, i would add, within the eu.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, this has been an interesting and important debate. mr van orden, i agreed with every word that you said as well, alarming though that may be for you. mr belet, can i thank you very much for the work that you did in the elections. i know from robert cooper what an important contribution you have made, and i must thank you for that. i agree with the honourable members that what we are seeing is not irreversible, but every step that is taken makes it much more difficult for that reversal to take place. it is less likely and it is less easy for them to go backwards. i agree too that we have a lot to do. we want to make sure that the people have the right opportunities and can make their own choices after years of being cut off and apart from us. i will go next week, because that was the agreement that i reached with – amongst others – aung san suu kyi, who asked me to go after we had made the decisions about sanctions and in order to open the office. i respected her request in choosing the timing of my visit. i should say too that we have listened very carefully to her, as have leaders, ministers and parliamentarians who have visited her, the latest being the prime minister of the uk, mr cameron, who sent me a message about what she had said. my envoy, robert cooper, who has known her for many, many years, has visited four times in the last few months to ensure that we have been able to remain in good contact. i agree with everything that has been said about our need to move cautiously but properly, and to understand that the possible transformation that we are witnessing is absolutely and truly remarkable. what is interesting is that i have not met anybody who has been there who does not come back and talk with absolute admiration for what the president has done and the opportunities that are being opened up. for those who have followed this country’s actions over many years there is also surprise that we find ourselves able to have this debate. i wish the people of burma/myanmar very well. i pay due regard to the work that the president has done, i pay enormous tribute to daw aung san suu kyi, and i very much look forward to passing on to her and to the president your very good wishes when i see them next week.
member of the commission, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, i am pleased to have the opportunity today to discuss on behalf of high representative/vice-president ashton our regional cooperation efforts and perspectives in the black sea area. i welcome the attention that the european parliament is giving to black sea regional cooperation. the black sea region is a distinct geographical area rich in human and natural resources. it acts as a gateway between europe, asia and the middle east and therefore offers black sea stakeholders an opportunity to identify areas where our interests come together to further practical cooperation. since 2007, with the accession of bulgaria and romania, the european union has been directly involved in black sea affairs. there are significant opportunities and challenges in the region that require coordinated action. this is why we established the black sea synergy in 2008 as the european union’s contribution to regional cooperation. i am sometimes asked whether the black sea synergy duplicates the eastern partnership. my answer is no. the eastern partnership is about bringing our eastern neighbours closer to the european union through political association and economic integration. the black sea synergy is about bringing the european union closer to the black sea by contributing to regional cooperation. let me add a couple of personal comments here. there is, of course, interaction between the two – between the eastern partnership and the black sea synergy. we have developed the eastern partnership into a major instrument of our relationship with our eastern partners. i think it gives us an opportunity for the black sea synergy to become a real instrument providing us with synergies between our policies in our region as we put together our efforts to build more of the european union in our partner countries through our cross-border cooperation and our more active role in a regional framework of cooperation. while our interests in the black sea are broad, ranging from the environment, maritime affairs and fisheries to energy, transport, movement and security, we have focused our activities on the creation of the three sectoral partnerships in the fields of the environment, transport and energy. in march 2010 we launched the environment partnership. in addition, we have a substantial programme of cross-border cooperation in the region which i referred to a second ago. the budget for the 2007-2013 black sea basin programme under the cross-border element of the european neighbourhood and partnership instrument has increased from eur 17 million to almost eur 26 million. the 18 projects implemented after the first call for proposals cover the three priorities of the european union’s 2007-2013 black sea basin programme: supporting cross-border partnerships for economic and social development, sharing resources and competences for environmental protection and conservation, and supporting cultural and educational initiatives for the establishment of a common cultural environment in the basin. however, we have not progressed as much as we would have hoped in implementing the three partnerships. the time has thus come to reflect anew on how to take our cooperation in the black sea region forward. i therefore welcome the opportunity to discuss this with you. as for the future black sea strategy, we have to make sure it will be well received both within the european union and among the black sea states that are not part of our union. in the meantime, we are reflecting on how to revitalise the black sea synergy as a natural step towards the future strategy. in taking this forward, we will have three considerations uppermost in our minds. firstly, we must reinvigorate the european union’s approach to cooperation in the black sea region in a way which takes account of the variety of relations we have with the countries around the black sea. we have a candidate country (turkey) and a strategic partner (russia), plus our partners within the eastern partnership: ukraine, moldova, georgia, armenia and azerbaijan. we will also have to bear in mind the sometimes difficult relations these countries have with each other or with countries neighbouring the black sea region. secondly, we will need to take into account the other cooperation frameworks in the region. we do not need to reinvent the wheel. in the environmental field, the black sea commission is an important player, and the european union hopes to be accepted as a full member soon. we would also like to step up our engagement with the black sea economic cooperation organisation, especially in the context of its 20th anniversary summit due to take place in istanbul on 26 june. a reinvigorated black sea synergy initiative and engagement with the black sea economic cooperation organisation will provide great opportunities to develop practical cooperation and to foster dialogue between the european union and russia and between the european union and turkey, both being important stakeholders in the region. my third and last – and most important – point is this: we must play to the european union’s strengths and the opportunities offered by the lisbon treaty to bring together our internal and external policies and instruments. i will continue to value the exchanges with parliament on the black sea region as we take forward our process of reflection on how to enhance the european union’s policy approach towards this important region.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, as rapporteur on the black sea for this house i can confirm that 15 months have passed since this house called for the adoption of an eu strategy on the black sea which would upgrade the black sea synergy. when the black sea synergy was launched back in 2008, expectations were high. the launch of the black sea synergy had several important merits: firstly, shaping the black sea region as a separate unit of eu policy-making, and secondly, qualifying the region as strategically important for the eu. four years later the results are disappointing. in terms of eu policy, the black sea region looks very much like a black hole. no global reporting on the implementation of the synergy has taken place since 2008. no coherent policy document presents the current situation in the black sea region. secondly, the challenges in the black sea are not waiting peacefully for the commission to put pen to paper. the black sea is an unchecked collection of tensions and potential crises. despite some improvements in sectoral fields – environment, maritime and fisheries policy – one cannot speak of improvements in strategic fields such as security and energy. on two occasions – in 2008 and 2011 – the european parliament called for the upgrading of the black sea synergy to a black sea strategy, and the question still stands. is the commission planning to elaborate such a strategy?
the black sea region is of geostrategic importance, in particular for energy security and for the diversification of sources and routes of energy supply to the union, due to its proximity to the caspian sea, the middle east and central asia. following the accession of romania and bulgaria, the union should become an important player in the international relations of the region. as rapporteur for the itre commission opinion on a european union strategy for the black sea, i emphasised the european added value and the importance of the southern gas corridor as a means of improving the security of supply of the union. i believe that projects such as the nabucco gas pipeline, together with the trans adriatic gas pipeline, the pan-european peop oil pipeline, the turkey-greece-italy interconnection or the azerbaijan-georgia-romania interconnection highlight both the particular importance of the union's commitments in the black sea region and the subsequent need to intensify cooperation between the countries around the black sea. we call on the commission to give greater priority to the black sea region and to develop a european union strategy for the black sea, accompanied by an action plan.
the strategic importance of the black sea region is undeniable in political, economic, energy, commercial, ecological, cultural, transport security, neighbourhood policy and external relations. i therefore believe that the development of a union strategy for this region is not an option but a necessity. it must aim first and foremost at increasing stability and security, with a focus on resolving frozen conflicts, but also at exploiting the economic potential of the area, in particular by encouraging major energy projects. romania supports an active and comprehensive black sea policy, complementing the eu strategy for the danube region. the latter, now in the implementation phase, successfully demonstrates the importance of a concrete framework for cooperation. that is why, commissioner füle, i am asking the commission to present the draft black sea strategy as soon as possible.
the black sea region has a recognised strategic importance given its very rich natural resources and a potential market of over 350 million consumers. however, enhanced regional cooperation between the countries bordering the black sea and those in the wider black sea area is needed. a realistic solution for regional cooperation is to promote more strongly the bridge dimension of the european neighbourhood policy. the wider black sea region is part of the european union's eastern neighbourhood, but black sea cooperation has a rather modest place in the european union's current plans for the renewal of its neighbourhood policy. moreover, the european union can play a significant role in stimulating this regional cooperation by creating a european black sea strategy, building on the black sea synergy and complementary to the strategy for the danube region.
commissioner, i'd like to ask you a question. for the development of the black sea maritime corridors, there is currently no financing line open in this multiannual financial framework, although for all other seas of the european union there is one. we call on the black sea littoral states to conclude a memorandum of understanding for the development of the black sea sea corridors and we call on the commission to open a tnt budget line to finance the black sea sea corridors, similar to those financing the baltic, north sea and mediterranean sea corridors. also, with the exception of bilateral agreements, there is no global agreement on the regional management of fish stocks in the black sea. the commission's support is needed to develop the regional dialogue with a view to developing a common marine strategy in the black sea area involving the other black sea littoral states.
in writing. the eu's involvement in black sea policy must become increasingly consistent and substantial in line with the development potential offered by the region. at eu level we have an integrated policy for the socioeconomic development of maritime regions, but the black sea dimension is still limited. i would like to mention that the black sea is an important axis for energy and transport as half of the oil and gas imports of european countries will transit through this region. it is important, in my view, that the european black sea strategy is without doubt and perhaps an important objective of eu foreign policy, especially given the geostrategic importance of this area in the context of the 'arab spring' and the economic crisis.
in writing. there are many initiatives and opportunities in the black sea region, but the eu presence is not sufficiently visible. we can even talk about a timid policy in the black sea, the best example being fishing. bulgaria and romania have european quotas for cod, while turkey does not respect european policy in this area and does not apply any restrictions. turkish vessels fish 80% of the black sea cod, with the remaining 20% going to bulgaria and romania. in this context, dialogue with the black sea neighbours must be an integral part of this 'in-the-box' european policy.
in writing. – although the eu has been a black sea actor since 2007, its hesitancy to approach the area is still visible. the black sea synergy of 2008 has not been the precursor of a more elaborate approach, as we, the members who are located in that area, hoped for, but rather a time-buying mechanism to avoid just that: a more substantive approach towards that particularly important area of our continent. primarily, the motivation is related, on the one hand, to the inherent complexities of the area and, on the other, to the care the eu is demonstrating not to upset important countries in the region, particularly russia. probably, the eu considers that the instrument of eastern partnership is already a sufficient annoyance to russia – our main strategic partner in the east of the continent – to add to that a well defined strategy to deal with the area. even the black sea synergy was not conceived to be an efficient instrument, the proof of it being its minuscule ‘success’. under the circumstances, i am afraid that it will take more time for the area to get a proper strategy, which other similar regions – see the baltic sea, (russia included) – already enjoy.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, i would like to thank you for this opportunity to report on the progress made in the negotiations on the association agreements between the european union and armenia and azerbaijan respectively. i welcome the interest and engagement demonstrated by the european parliament in this regard. we have had an intensive and regular exchange with the two rapporteurs to prepare the two well-structured and comprehensive reports, for which i would like to thank mrs jäätteenmäki and mr poreba. the adoption of these reports comes at a moment when the relations of the european union with the south caucasus, and in particular with armenia and azerbaijan, are under the spotlight. during the visit of the armenian president sargsyan to brussels in march, and when i visited baku to attend the euronest plenary session two weeks ago, i conveyed two key messages to our interlocutors: first, our readiness to strengthen our links and to provide support, and second, our wish to see tangible progress on a number of issues, including deepened democracy, respect for human rights and conflict resolution. before providing comments on the reports, let me briefly give an update on the negotiations. there has been considerable progress since they were launched in july 2010. we had eight plenary meetings with armenia, and five with azerbaijan. out of 28 chapters on sectoral and economic reform, we closed 24 chapters with armenia and 13 with azerbaijan. discussions on the political as well as the justice, freedom and security chapters are well advanced, in particular with armenia. let me also stress that we perceived a genuine commitment of our interlocutors to fruitful – although at times difficult – negotiations, and this is reflected in the number of chapters closed so far. as to the reports, i would like to say from the outset that we fully share the views of the rapporteurs that the association agreements currently under negotiation are fundamental and far-reaching tools for deepening our relations with the two countries. within the multilateral dimension of the eastern partnership, these agreements should also be instrumental in developing, in a regional context, a series of bilateral contacts between the two countries in a number of areas. at present, such contacts between armenia and azerbaijan are almost non-existent. let me also share with you my impressions on the two issues addressed in detail in the reports. first, on nagorno-karabakh, the european union has recently expressed its concern at the slow progress in the peace negotiations and it called on both armenia and azerbaijan to step up their efforts to reach agreement on the ‘madrid principles’ as a basis for peace. increased tensions along the front lines add further concerns. we therefore urge the leaders on both sides to fully implement all commitments made in the minsk group framework. the european union stands ready to continue to provide enhanced support for confidence-building measures and this will remain complementary to the minsk group framework. the european union has the capacities and experience to contribute to confidence-building measures on people-to-people contacts and on security. the european union could also contribute to a number of initiatives, such as the mechanism proposed by the osce to investigate incidents along the lines of contact. we have underlined the need for unconditional/unrestricted access for european union representatives to nagorno-karabakh and the surrounding regions. we continue to work on this with the armenian and azerbaijani leadership. the second aspect is the issue of democracy, respect for human rights and the rule of law. armenia and azerbaijan are committed to sharing values and principles with the european union in this field and we should make every effort to stress to them the need to ensure that their countries fully comply with these standards. an important test for armenia will be the upcoming parliamentary elections in may and the presidential election next year. in the case of azerbaijan, the european union has clearly expressed the need for progress in democratic reforms in a number of areas. we also called for an invitation to be extended to the rapporteur for political prisoners of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe. our level of ambition is high in this exercise: on what we can offer, but also on what we expect from our partners. this is where the ‘more for more’ principle will fully apply. to conclude, let me once again congratulate the rapporteurs for their reports, as well as the european parliament for the interest and attention you have shown in these two countries.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, i would like to start from the core problem preventing fully-fledged development and stability in the south caucasus region: the nagorno-karabakh conflict. occupying territories and preventing refugees and internally displaced persons from returning to their homes is against european values. some believe that negotiations within the framework of the minsk basic principles would bring an agreement to resolve this problem. in my view the negotiations were not robust enough and did not bring the expected results. we will have to agree to disagree on the results of these negotiations. this is why i believe that the european union should take a more active role in the settlement of this conflict and call on armenia to withdraw its forces from the occupied territories in nagorno-karabakh, along with confidence-building measures and multinational peacekeeping operations. this is why i insist and reiterate that the union should be involved in the negotiations using the experience of its member states, and i also refer to the experience of the baltic countries in the 1990s when it comes to holding – or not – a possible referendum in future. on visa facilitation, i welcome the launch in march of the negotiations on the visa facilitation and readmission agreement, but our cooperation on mobility should go further. once all the conditions are met we should aim for visa liberalisation. people-to-people contact is crucial. azerbaijan still has many challenges ahead, especially with regard to the judiciary, to the fight against corruption and organised crime, and in particular to implementing international law on human rights. many things are to be done and i would recommend focusing on high-level corruption cases, which are the test for both judges and politicians, and on improving transparency of public income and expenditure.
i support the negotiation of the association agreement with azerbaijan, because it will allow the union to intensify its relations with this important partner. economic and trade exchanges are an essential element of the process as they contribute to the development of political cooperation. i am pointing out the need to promote energy partnerships even more. it responds to a mutual interest in ensuring energy security by diversifying sources and transport routes. in this context, i would like to recall the agri lng interconnector project launched by romania, azerbaijan and georgia. i also stress the need for the union to be more involved in efforts to resolve the nagorno karabakh conflict. the framework provided by the eastern partnership and euronest must be used more to increase trust and promote dialogue between the parties.
in my speech i shall refer to the report on the recommendations of parliament on the negotiations between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan for the conclusion of an association agreement. i stress the importance of cooperation between the european union and azerbaijan for the diversification of sources and routes of energy supply to the european union. i welcome the joint declaration on gas supply signed in january 2011 in baku by the president of the european commission and the president of azerbaijan as an important milestone in the realisation of the southern gas corridor. we call on azerbaijan to continue its efforts to promote projects such as the baku-tbilisi-ceyhan and baku-tbilisi-erzurum pipelines. we call on the union to provide technical assistance to azerbaijan for the use of renewable energy sources and the promotion of energy efficiency. finally, i welcome the progress made by azerbaijan in the field of communications and information technology, especially e-government, thus increasing the transparency of public administration and helping to fight corruption.
the issue of alleged cia flights and detention centres in europe has come back to the attention of the european parliament, which is a positive thing, as i believe it is very important that the truth comes out. the fight against terrorism can never be, and must never be, more important than the protection of human rights, and therefore any abuses must be condemned. on the other hand, however, we must bear in mind that repeatedly accusing states without any real evidence is also a form of abuse. romania, for example, has been repeatedly accused of hosting cia detention centers, and the only evidence for this is a few articles in the press. parliamentary and civil inquiries proved that there were no centres of any kind. therefore, i would like to draw attention to the fact that finding the truth in the case of cia prisoners does not mean launching repeated and unfounded accusations, but fair analysis of real and objective facts that, at least in the case of romania, have proven to not exist.
i too support the amendment of the regulations on the coordination and implementation of social security systems. this will improve legal certainty. i welcome the fact that the proposal takes account of changes in national legislation as well as the latest developments in cross-border mobility. it is more important than ever to ensure the free movement of labour for all union citizens. romanian and bulgarian workers are more affected than the rest of the population by the additional demands placed on them in an already overcompetitive labour market. simplification of regulations is necessary in particular with regard to applicable unemployment benefits in order to protect citizens' rights. in this connection, i would stress the importance of amending article 65. the proposed amendments will contribute to updating and improving existing rules in the context of changing social realities.
i particularly appreciate the simplification that this proposal for a regulation aims to achieve. as you know, i have been advocating since the beginning of my mandate for the most flexible, flexible and simple approach to all the issues at european level to make things work as well as possible in line with the needs of european citizens. i therefore believe that the achievement of coordination of social security systems can only be a step forward in the current context of the need for jobs and, by implication, for encouraging labour mobility. regulations (ec) no 883/2004 and (ec) no 987/2009 should be adapted to the new situation. in addition, these efforts must be accompanied by member states, governments, which must continue to ensure the proper functioning of social security systems and work together in support of those regulations at european level for those who work or stop working in different countries with different systems.
member of the commission. − again i can say that this regulation respects the diversity of the industrial relations system and, for example in the case of industrial conflict, highlights the role of the national courts, since they are the closest to the situation where the problems or disagreements might occur. i think it is very important to realise that this monti ii does not actually regulate on the right to strike and that the member states are free to lay down the conditions for the existence and exercise of the social rights at issue. however, when exercising their power the member states must comply with union law, in particular the provisions of the treaty on the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services. the court clearly stated that the right to strike does not fall outside the scope of the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services. i can also add that the regulation lays down general principles with respect to the exercise of the right to strike within the context of the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services. it does not affect in any way the right to strike within the member states.
i am a great supporter of european integration and therefore i understand the idea of unity in the face of the economic crisis. what i don't understand is why solidarity means asking romanian and bulgarian citizens to support joint plans to get out of the crisis, but at the same time applying restrictions that demonstrate that we are not equal european citizens. if we were equal, we would all have the right to work without restrictions, regardless of the country in which we would like to settle, and we would all have the right to free movement, which is not yet the case, because romania and bulgaria have not received the status of members of the schengen area, although the technical criteria have long been met. so my romanian fellow citizens have first and foremost european obligations and fewer rights, an imbalance that contradicts the very essence of the european idea. does the commission have a plan to persuade the council and the member states to change these practices this very year?
member of the commission. − perhaps the previous commissioner for enlargement will supplement what i am saying, but this is exactly the point: since the freedom of movement from new member states is regulated within the enlargement agreements, the same rules in fact apply to those countries that joined the union in 2004 and in 2007, and to croatia, which will join next year. there is no discrimination because these three stages have been defined in an identical way vis-à-vis these countries. nevertheless, we do emphasise the merits of free movement and we have been inviting the older member states to open their labour markets faster than has been laid down, and quite a few of them have actually done that. quite a few opened very early, and some –italy and the czech republic – abandoned the restrictions from 1 january. so they will not apply the restrictions vis-à-vis romania and bulgaria for the next two years. i have been calling on all others to reconsider their decisions. i sent a letter to these governments in order to encourage them to reconsider their decisions, and in the forthcoming employment package we also point to the importance of this.
is the commission satisfied with the explanation you received from the member states which are still keeping the restrictions, claiming that our presence will distort the labour market?
member of the commission. − the social partners have been consulted, and i have to say that president barroso has been personally involved in a dialogue with the representatives of the eu-level social partners, both business europe and the etuc. business europe is also developing its own action programme – particularly focusing on apprenticeships, although not exclusively – in this area, and the etuc is also working hard on this. this subject was actually dealt with during our discussions at the tripartite social summit on 1 march at which – in addition to president barroso – president herman von rompuy was present. youth employment, therefore, is indeed a key issue. unfortunately, there are many problems in the area of the labour market: unemployment is at its peak at present and represents the greatest problem that europe has faced at any time in the last 60 years. but we have to focus action where the situation is the most difficult, which is actually the employment of young people, especially in the so-called peripheral regions.
member of the commission. - mr. deputy, i have to go. indeed, there was a very thorough impact assessment before the commission made its proposal, and this pointed in the direction that the new regulation to be introduced would help to increase the number of workers who could access new job opportunities through such posting. but it's clearly not a suicide. so it is not an end in itself to have more workers working abroad as opposed to in their home environment, but these opportunities must be exploited. compared to the european union, for example, and the united states, which is also a single market, mobility is much more modest. but there are many reasons. there are many reasons for posting, and there are many reasons for the free movement of workers in general. language barriers, administrative barriers, housing conditions, differences in access to housing and many other factors exist that hamper the international mobility of labour, whether in the context of free trade or in the context of posting. we are committed to removing these obstacles, to reduce them as much as possible, because it is not only a right for european citizens, but also a very important economic opportunity, both for businesses and for individuals.
member of the commission. - mr. representative, i have to go. the commission's comments, which are implicit, suggest that this is a debate which goes beyond the number of workers posted, a kind of symbolic debate, if you will, but one whose importance can be understood if we consider that these debates - particularly as regards court decisions - concerned the essence of social rights. in this respect, i think that this is a very important debate, it is an important, substantial regulation which the commission proposed in march, but it really needs to be placed in a much broader context which aims to overcome social disparities, to overcome disadvantages, to ensure that people can catch up. there are individual strategies that can be found in the freedom of work, and there are collective strategies that can be found in the closure of individual regions, individual countries. so these things are really connected, and the larger context is certainly justified.
member of the commission. − on this matter i speak under the guidance of the vice-president but i think that, if it is true that the wages in the car manufacturing sector in bratislava are just half of the wages in some more advanced industrial countries, then it is a good result because normally, in terms of the average wages, there are much bigger differences between the countries of western and northern europe and the so-called new member states in central europe and the balkans. i think this should be seen as a factor of industrial development. the wage level clearly plays a role in attracting foreign investment – fdi – to slovakia and we can only congratulate slovakia on its very successful industrial development in the last ten to fifteen years. however, what we should also note is not simply the wage differences between bratislava and some western european locations but also the differences between western and eastern slovakia. we should also have the objective of ensuring that regional development helps catching up inside the country and that these differences become a bit more balanced in the future.
vice-president of the commission. − just to supplement what my colleague and friend lászló andor has said, i think it is always difficult to define the right level of wages, if there is such a concept. normally it is advisable for wage development to reflect productivity developments and to help optimise employment and job creation in any given society or member state. without taking any precise position, for these reasons, on the exact level of wages in slovakia or any other member state, i think it is clearly a fact that this wage development reflects the level of economic development. i would join lászló andor in commending slovakia for its formidable industrial development over the past two decades. in fact the success of slovakia – and many other countries of central and eastern europe which are part of the overall production chains of europe – are some of the success stories of the enlargement of the european union. despite the financial crisis and its aftermath and the social and economic consequences, it is a fact that the eastern enlargement of the european union has been beneficial in economic terms for the whole of europe in terms of competitiveness and the overall creation of jobs.
member of the commission. − there is definitely no discrimination as such in this. however, what i should highlight – which we did not mention in the answer to the previous question – is the importance of social dialogue in this. of course there is an economic rationale which helps define wages in the labour market, but from an institutional point of view – and this should be underlined in the central european context as well – the social partners play a role – i would say a dominant role – in defining wages. perhaps that dimension should be looked at in slovakia and strengthened in the coming period. when i have an opportunity to meet officials of the new government i will certainly raise this point.
member of the commission. - mr. representative, i have to go. as you know, many elements of this question, and of this subject, are of concern to vice-president viviane reding, particularly in the fight against discrimination. however, the labour market context of disability is very important, and it is precisely for this reason that i recently attended a fair and conference in bulgaria with businesses and cooperatives employing disabled people, and it is very important that this decades-old tradition in bulgaria now extends to the european level. participants from italy, romania and other european countries also attended this event, and they provided a model of how the situation of people with disabilities can be improved and job opportunities provided through support for businesses, cooperatives and the social economy. we can help to spread these good examples, these good practices, or we can support the commission and the european union with financial means. first of all, i must mention again the social fund, which supports these programmes in bulgaria, and when we were working on the next financial perspective, i paid particular attention to this, thanks also to the discussions with you, that the social fund explicitly guarantees that the social fund will be used even more in the future for the integration and training of disabled people in the labour market. mobility is a separate issue, and i think that the international coordination of this will have to be discussed with mrs reding first.
member of the commission. - mr. representative, i have to go. i certainly agree that it would be good to increase the proportion of the support we give to disabled people in the integration of the labour market, but it is difficult to formulate specific targets here because the member states, the regions, who are the actors in development policies and the implementation of cohesion policy, certainly have autonomy, freedom of movement, rights, and they develop the plans and ideas that are needed to improve the situation of disabled people. this is also a preference for us because it is not just unemployment or labour market disadvantages that can affect disabled people, but the threat of poverty is also substantially higher, especially at a time when there are tensions not only in the labour market but also in fiscal policy. so, i think that the limitation or the decline of social services can be a problem, and we're certainly looking at that, and i think that's why social innovation has to be an important part of the future.
the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the treaty, and this includes the right of union citizens to live and work in another member state. the existing barriers to the free movement of workers in romania and bulgaria may lead to undeclared work and social dumping. raising these barriers will protect both migrant and indigenous workers equally. we call on the commission and the member states to prevent the exploitation of romanian and bulgarian workers, to prevent their recruitment under poor working conditions and social protection, and to ensure their families' access to education, health services and decent housing. what measures does the commission envisage to avoid situations where workers in romania and bulgaria are not respected in their fundamental social rights?
member of the commission. − as i have already answered with regard to a previous case, we have to apply what has been laid down in the accession agreements, and that does not constitute discrimination. but – at the same time – we have been advocating a more rapid opening of the labour markets of the older member states. last year, we had many opportunities to discuss these questions with austria and germany, who eventually opened up for the eight member states who joined in 2004. the problem of undeclared work was in the spotlight, as it has been empirically proven that undeclared work is an unfortunate consequence of the restrictions that have been maintained for too long. this is one of the key arguments that we use in order to try to encourage member states to open up faster. but – as i have already said – the majority of member states still have the right to maintain restrictions with regard to bulgaria and romania until the end of next year. we nevertheless call on them to reconsider their decisions, as – from an economic and also social point of view – there are many benefits to free movement.
i referred to the situation where workers in romania and bulgaria are employed but in precarious working conditions. a second question concerns the following: with the march proposal on the protection of posted workers, does the commission intend to stimulate quality jobs while guaranteeing workers' rights? the existing barriers to the free movement of workers in romania and bulgaria may lead to undeclared work and social dumping. romania and bulgaria are not among the member states recognised as sending posted workers, although they do not enter the host country's labour market. the commission has concrete data to prove that workers in romania and bulgaria have had a negative impact on the markets. .. (the chairman interrupts the speaker)
first of all, i would like to thank all the colleagues who supported us, i would also like to thank the other authors, mrs dăncilă, mrs nicolai, mr tarabella and mr ulmer, and last but not least i would like to thank all the nurses and assistants who have been involved, and i believe that with the message we are sending today, which is so simple and yet so full of meaning, the european parliament is in solidarity with these children with down syndrome and defending their right to be fully integrated into a union of diversity.
the coordination of the social security systems of the member states greatly facilitates the free movement of citizens within the eu. since the 1970s, it has been the instrument that has made it possible to take up employment or to settle in another member state in practice. the principle of aggregation of periods, for example, is the recognition of the existence of a united europe and the internal market. however, national legislation is constantly changing and it is therefore inevitable that the rules must be continually adapted to the needs and requirements of citizens. we, the directly elected representatives of the citizens, must pay close attention to the amendments proposed by the commission and, where appropriate, we must not hesitate to make the appropriate additions. this is what has happened, and i welcome the report by my colleague, which clearly highlights some of the problems with the commission's proposal.
i voted for this report because the negotiation of the association agreement provides an opportunity to develop relations with armenia on the basis of a commitment to democratic values. i also stress the need for the parliamentary elections on 6 may to be free, fair and transparent. i trust that the authorities in yerevan will make every effort to do so. the nagorno-karabakh conflict must be resolved to ensure the security of armenia and azerbaijan and the entire region, and the union must become more involved in resolving frozen conflicts. i would like to point out that the black sea rotational force exercise is currently taking place with the participation of the military of several countries, including the united states, romania, armenia and azerbaijan. it aims to increase the level of interoperability, but it is also a way of increasing trust between the caucasus states.
in writing. − closer and more effective cooperation between european social security institutions is the key factor. electronic communication is the fastest and most reliable way of exchanging data between the institutions of the member states. all these procedures should be accelerated for the benefit of all concerned. at the same time, i consider that the persons concerned must enjoy all the guarantees provided for by the community provisions on the protection of individuals with regard to the processing of personal data and the free movement of such data. the measures and procedures provided for in this regulation are in fact intended to ensure greater transparency as regards the criteria to be applied by the institutions of the member states under regulation (ec) no 883/2004.
in writing. − i believe that special provisions should be made for selfemployed frontier workers who are totally unemployed when there is no unemployment benefit system in the member state of residence to cover selfemployed persons.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 883/2004 on the coordination of social security systems and regulation (ec) no 987/2009 laying down the procedure for implementing regulation (ec) no 883/2004, because it adds important innovations to the regulation of work in the eu, with a focus on trans-border and frontier workers. it is clear that the changes in the current socio-economic realities and the new challenges deriving from the opening-up of borders and the globalised market of services requires an adaptation of the provision on social security and working conditions. this legislative resolution adjusts social security provisions for workers going abroad through the coordination of certain key measures. a timely act, given the importance transport services and cross-borders workers hold for the european economy and society.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the coordination of social security systems. the proposal aims at regularly updating regulations (ec) no 883/2004 and (ec) no 987/2009 with the aim of ensuring adequate coordination at eu level of national social security systems. since member states frequently amend their social security legislation, coordination measures in the field of social security are necessary for the full exercise of the right to freedom of movement enshrined in the tfeu. the diversity and evolution of the conditions in which professional activities are carried out make it necessary to take account of the situation of highly mobile workers. new labour supply patterns, such as those in the air transport sector, have become apparent. social security coordination addresses cross-border situations where no member state can act alone. i think it is important that this regulation facilitates the coordination of social security systems by the member states and that people moving within the eu are better protected, so as to eliminate the risk of losing social security rights already acquired in another member state. this is in line with article 48 tfeu, which requires the european parliament and the council to adopt the measures necessary to establish freedom of movement for workers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union's accession to the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia will strengthen relations and intensify cooperation with the countries of the region and increase the union's visibility in the region. as other countries besides asean have joined the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia (papua new guinea, china, india, japan, pakistan, south korea, russia, new zealand, mongolia, australia, france, east timor, bangladesh, sri lanka, north korea, usa), the conditions for inclusive cooperation involving all interested actors have been created. eu accession will further broaden this format, making the proposed framework more relevant, to the benefit of the south east asia region, but also to all parties to the treaty. i welcome the adoption of this resolution at the april session of parliament so that the instruments of accession of the eu to the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia can be signed at the asean-eu ministerial meeting on 26-27 april 2012.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the decision on eu accession to the treaty of friendship and cooperation in south-east asia. the treaty of friendship and cooperation in southeast asia (tpc), signed by the original members of asean in 1976, aims to promote peace, stability and cooperation in southeast asia. the treaty was originally designed to apply only to states in the region and was amended in 1987 to allow for accession by states outside the region. in addition to the asean member states, other countries party to the treaty include china, india, japan, russia, australia, france, and the united states. in july 2006, member states agreed to initiate the procedures for eu accession to the treaty of friendship and cooperation, and to this end the treaty was substantially amended to allow accession by non-state entities. the treaty supports the peaceful settlement of disputes, the maintenance of peace, the prevention of conflict and the strengthening of security in southeast asia. the rules and principles set out in the treaty shall correspond to the objectives of the union's common foreign and security policy. the contracting parties shall also endeavour to cooperate as closely as possible and to provide each other with mutual assistance in the form of training and research facilities in the social, cultural, scientific, technical and administrative fields.
in writing. - i voted for the european parliament's decision on the european council's proposal not to convene a convention to add to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union a protocol on the concerns of the irish people concerning the treaty of lisbon. at the european council on 19 june 2009, the heads of state or government decided to adopt a decision to provide guarantees and to address the concerns of the irish people regarding the lisbon treaty in terms of the right to life, family and education, taxation, security and defence. the heads of state or government also stated that the decision was binding and would take effect on the date of entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. at the time of the conclusion of the next accession treaty and in accordance with the relevant constitutional rules, the provisions of the decision will be incorporated in a protocol to be annexed to the treaty on european union and the treaty on the functioning of the european union. since the heads of state or government at the european council of 19 june 2009 had already decided on the content of the provisions proposed in the draft protocol, we consider that this matter has already been settled politically and does not appear to justify the convening of a convention.
in writing. − the report on the role of cohesion policies in the outermost regions of the european union in the context of the europe 2020 strategy underlines the need for these regions to benefit from a differentiated approach in the eu cohesion policy and supports a tailoring of the application of european policies to priority sectors that can contribute to smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is very important that these regions are supported in line with their concrete needs so that they can contribute to the achievement of the objectives of strategy 2020, and this can only happen by increasing the flexibility of the instruments of cohesion policies. i believe that the potential of these regions must be harnessed if they are to truly become an asset for europe. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that future cohesion policy must take account of the special status of the outermost regions in order to achieve the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy. to have smart, inclusive growth, we need to take into account the small size of these regions, the difficult climate and terrain, and the economic dependence on a small number of products. i would like to draw attention to the importance of respecting the fundamental principles in eu action towards the outermost regions. a balance needs to be struck between the internal and external aspects of the union's policies and between the adaptation of their implementation and the adoption of new, specific instruments. i would point out the importance of the role of cohesion policy in the proposal for a new european strategy for the outermost regions and the need to increase the flexibility of cohesion policy instruments in order to secure significant investments.
in writing. − the european union must take account of the importance of fishing for the inhabitants of the outermost regions, both in terms of land use and employment for the local population. for all the inhabitants of these regions, fishing is the main economic activity generating income, which is why the potential of these regions must take the form of concrete measures for a true maritime economy. on the other hand, the potential of the tourism sector, which can supplement the income of the region and of ordinary citizens, who can make their specific traditions, including culinary traditions, known, should not be neglected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on the role of cohesion policy in the outermost regions of the european union in the context of eu 2020, because i believe that reducing any form of existing disparities in the regions of europe should be a top priority of the eu. this report, by addressing the issue of the outermost regions (or) of the union, represents one of the many important steps forward that we must progressively undertake in order to achieve both the goals of europe 2020 and a territorially and socially cohesive europe. in particular, i positively welcome the integration of the suggestions presented by the itre opinion concerning the need to overcome the structural and infrastructural gap which is detrimental to the economic growth of these areas. it is fundamental that stress is put on the development of small and medium enterprises, on the need to connect the achievement of 2020 goals with research and innovation programmes and, in particular, by showing the importance of a flexible approach.
in writing. − along with the regions of the new member states, the outermost regions are characterised by very low competitiveness and this needs to be transposed through a special effort in cohesion policy. in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, the main priorities for these regions must continue to be improving accessibility, increasing economic competitiveness and regional integration. as the main instrument for achieving the objectives of strategy 2020, cohesion policy must remain one of the main means of european action to reduce disparities between european regions, and thus between the outermost regions, by promoting the development and economic convergence of these regions with continental europe. i also believe that cohesion policy must take account of all existing regional particularities and give these regions the right to differentiated treatment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider that the cohesion policy must remain one of the main instruments of european action to reduce disparities in the european regions in general, and in the outermost regions in particular, with a view to enabling them to integrate into the internal market and assert themselves in their respective geographical areas in order to promote their economic development. i believe that the various proposals outlined in the resolution are adapted to the specific reality of these regions and contribute to the finding of a more balanced response, in terms of european action, to the challenges faced by the outermost regions of the european union within the scope of the eu 2020 strategy objectives. finally, given that romania also has a significant number of regions that could benefit from a decrease in economic or social disparities, i am a strong supporter of eu cohesion policy in general.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the role of cohesion policy in the eu's outermost regions in the context of the europe 2020 strategy because these regions have specific characteristics and needs, different from the rest of the eu as a whole, which must be addressed and addressed as such. it is very important that regional and local authorities in these areas are actively involved in the preparation and implementation of european programmes and policies, as part of a multi-level governance, in partnership with the private sector. in this way, we will ensure that the real problems faced by these regions are taken into account at all levels of the decision-making process, and that they are given greater visibility at european level. as regards the future programming period, i consider the proposal to reduce the amounts allocated to the outermost regions to be unjustified, all the more so as the financial effort to implement the eu 2020 strategy requires access to european aid at least identical to that in the current financial framework.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr teixeira because i believe that we must focus on the balanced and sustainable development of all the regions of europe in accordance with the objectives of economic and social cohesion. we all want a uniform european union, without economic imbalances or differences in living standards, a european union of equality for all citizens. in this context, i believe it is appropriate to increase the accessibility of the outermost regions by improving infrastructure. equally important is access to information and communication technologies in the eu's less developed regions. the substantial contribution of the structural funds to the regional integration process of regions with a low development potential has also proved beneficial and supports the more efficient use of these instruments. particular attention should be paid to strengthening the economic competitiveness of the regions by creating an environment favourable to the development of entrepreneurship and business enterprises. achieving these objectives requires an active and ambitious partnership between the european union, the member states, civil society and regional authorities, in accordance with the principle of multi-level governance.
in writing. − no region of the european union should be left behind in its efforts to achieve the cohesion objectives. if the report voted on today refers to the outermost regions, we must not forget that some regions - right at the heart of europe - can be considered to be subject to the same challenges because of their extreme isolation, altitude, difficult living conditions and economic production. mountain areas, for example, are just as disadvantaged as those farther away from the mainland. this must be taken into account not only in cohesion policy but also in agricultural policy, which must aim to ensure that agriculture is present and develops harmoniously throughout the whole of europe.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the role of cohesion policy in the outermost regions of the european union in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that member states should be helped to ensure that people in these regions have full access to the sources of information and the means of communication offered by new technologies - broadband technologies and infrastructure, wireless technologies, including satellite, in order to promote economic growth and better governance through the digitalisation of services. i call on the commission and the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure that all inhabitants of the outermost regions have broadband internet access by 2013. the areas of research and innovation, transport, telecommunications and tourism require special attention in the implementation of european policies in the outermost regions. the connecting europe facility should contain specific references to the outermost regions. i would stress the importance of integrating the outermost regions into the ten-t network. it is important to support smes, through the allocation of funds by the european union and the member states, with a view to developing production structures in the outermost regions and promoting the skills of workers, thus improving the region's specific products and the local economy.
in writing. − the european union has emerged over the past two decades as one of the main factors of stability and one of the main global actors that has encouraged the peaceful transition to democracy and market economy of several states. it is important in this context that the union, which remains the largest global donor, lives up to its historic mission and has a coherent programme to support human rights and the democratic project, especially as the european union is based on the promotion and protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. i believe that in the present global circumstances, an important emphasis should be placed on the special situation of christians in the countries neighbouring the union. it is also important that the eu's external policy, as well as its neighbourhood policy, focus on the recently established european endowment for democracy as an instrument.
in writing. − although the human rights situation in the eu is good, i believe we cannot stop here. the european union supports efforts to combat racism, xenophobia and other forms of discrimination based on religion, sex, age, disability or sexual orientation, with particular attention to respect for human rights in the areas of asylum and immigration. to promote human rights in the world, the eu is funding the european initiative for democracy and human rights, which has a budget of €1.1 billion for the period 2007-13. the initiative finances projects on gender equality and child protection, but also supports joint actions between the eu and other organisations involved in the defence of human rights, such as the united nations, the international committee of the red cross, the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe. in view of the above, i believe that the eu must remain a major player in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the document concerning the annual report on human rights in the world and the european union’s policy on the matter, including implications for the eu’s strategic human rights policy, because it presents a balanced opinion of the current state of play and the improvements to be implemented to the eu’s action as a global player and within its internal governance, with regard to the human rights discipline. in particular, i strongly support the need for the european parliament to be recognised, and to further enhance its role, as a key actor in the shaping of the implementation of the european union’s human rights strategy. for this reason, i strongly believe that the council and the commission should systematically take up the parliament’s resolutions and communications, by providing substantive responses to the impulse received from the democratically elected body of the eu. the report addresses the fundamental issues of the death penalty, arms control, torture and other cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment or punishment, women and human rights, freedom of religion, discrimination, children’s rights, freedom of expression. the guarantee of the highest standards of human rights must imperatively guide the eu’s action, in its external and internal policies.
in writing. − i congratulate the rapporteur, who has succeeded in obtaining the consensus of all the political groups on this report. it is important that this report stresses from the very first paragraph the importance of the european union acting consistently in its external relations and avoiding the coexistence of two sets of rules between its human rights policy and other external policies, or between internal and external policies. the european parliament is thus sending a unanimous message to the foreign ministers who will meet in june to adopt the declaration for a new human rights strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on human rights in the world and the european union's policy on the matter, including the implications for the eu's strategic human rights policy. eu development aid programmes should include concrete and substantial reforms to ensure respect for human rights, transparency, gender equality and the fight against corruption. i condemn all forms of human rights violations as well as the limited access to justice for victims. the eu welcomes the signing of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities (uncrpd) and the adoption of the european disability strategy 2010-2020. i would stress that the internet, alongside social media, has become one of the most important means by which individuals exercise their right to freedom of opinion and expression, and plays an important role in promoting human rights, democratic participation, accountability, transparency, economic development and new forms of public access. i welcome the creation of un women and call on the eu to cooperate closely with this institution at international, regional and national levels to ensure the implementation of women's rights. the european union welcomes the adoption of the council of europe's landmark convention on preventing and combating violence against women and domestic violence, which creates a comprehensive framework to prevent violence.
in writing. − in view of the negotiations between the european union and the republic of azerbaijan for the conclusion of an association agreement, i believe that this association agreement should bring concrete benefits and opportunities to the azerbaijani people and the european union in promoting a sustainable economy and ensuring greater transparency in the energy sector and also guaranteeing that its development is in line with international environmental standards.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the eu-azerbaijan association report because the association agreement provides the appropriate framework for deepening eu-azerbaijan relations by strengthening political association, economic integration and legislative harmonisation with the eu and by developing cultural relations, thus having an important impact on the democratisation process. ensuring the fundamental rights and freedoms of citizens, including the right of assembly and association, private property rights, the development of civil society, the rule of law, the sustained fight against corruption, political pluralism and the independence of the media and the judiciary are fundamental to an eu-azerbaijan association agreement. i express my concern about the increasing number of arrests of human rights activists and the difficulties encountered in registering ngos and political parties. i stress the importance of building and developing a coherent framework to support young people. i welcome the various government programs that offer scholarships to study abroad. the association agreement should constitute a comprehensive and forward-looking framework for the further development of relations with the republic of azerbaijan. it should promote political association, convergence.
in writing. − in view of the ongoing negotiations between the eu and the republic of armenia for the conclusion of an association agreement, i consider that the active commitment of the republic of armenia to the common values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, is essential for the continuation of the process and for the success of the negotiations and the subsequent application of this association agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe the european union must continue its good cooperation with the armenian authorities. we must show support for the implementation of reforms, in particular concerning the judiciary and law enforcement institutions. the eu should help armenia on its way towards deeper democracy. this transformation cannot take place without implementing good laws to fight corruption, money laundering, and organised crime, or without a functioning and responsible judiciary. the test for politicians, prosecutors and judges is the high level of corruption cases, so these should be a priority. transparency of income and expenditure should also be a top objective. the upcoming elections on 6 may are a test for armenian democracy. the european parliament must continue to monitor the situation and call on the government to ensure a level playing field for all political parties. we should also support the continuation of confidence-building measures in the nagorno-karabakh negotiations. a successful resolution of this conflict can only take place within the framework of international law.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the negotiations for the eu-armenia association agreement. this agreement constitutes a comprehensive and forward-looking framework for the further development of relations with the republic of armenia, a framework that promotes political association, economic convergence and legislative harmonisation. the active commitment of the republic of armenia to common values and principles such as democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights is essential for the continuation of the process and for the success of the negotiations and the subsequent application of the association agreement. it is necessary for armenia to give priority to youth and academic mobility in the negotiations with a view to concluding visa facilitation agreements. the commission shall, by means of implementing acts, adopt the necessary measures to ensure that the conditions for the participation of the republic of armenia in the union's programmes are fulfilled. we call for transparency in public financial management and for improvements to public procurement legislation to ensure good governance and transparent decision-making.
tax evasion causes significant economic losses, affects the functioning of state institutions and thus endangers national security. romania has revenues of only 33% of gdp, below the european average of 40%. the government of my country has made the fight against tax evasion a priority by setting up an interministerial committee to combat tax evasion. it is well known that the netherlands opposes my country's accession to the schengen area on the grounds of corruption and fraud. ironically, a shipment of 40 million contraband cigarettes worth 15 million euros was stranded for four days undetected in the port of rotterdam in the netherlands, a schengen country. this would not have been possible in the port of constanta in romania. the credit for this impressive capture, which took place last week, goes to the irish authorities, whom i would like to congratulate.
i would like to thank my colleague, mrs thyssen, in particular, for her efforts in producing this very good report. although the development of economic integration requires a system for the creation of a common consolidated tax base for companies operating in several member states, although the draft directive provides for the optional nature of companies to join this system and although each member state has the right to apply the tax rate it wishes to the part of the consolidated tax base that falls to it by way of allocation, we are still in a situation where some national parliaments have sent objections claiming that the principle of subsidiarity is violated, including my country's parliament. some governments are also opposed to the draft directive. i ask the commission to treat the position of the national parliaments with the utmost care. i think it is useful to have a meeting with these national parliaments which have invoked the principle of subsidiarity, and we in the committee on economic and monetary affairs are ready to take part in this dialogue.
the report we are voting on tomorrow is a strong signal to the governments of the member states to introduce a european corporate taxation framework. it is a requirement which parliament has put forward on several occasions, and it constitutes a step towards the completion of the european internal market and the economic integration of the member states. it should be borne in mind that many companies are now active in more than one member state. by representing a common set of rules in this area, the common consolidated corporate tax base will significantly reduce the administrative costs of companies and increase transparency, making the union a more attractive place for investors in practice. the european commission estimates an annual reduction of €700 million in compliance costs and also a decrease in tax evasion. in this context, i support this proposal and consider it necessary in the future to apply the system to small and medium-sized enterprises and to introduce a minimum level of taxation at european level. i also hope that parliament's proposal will be fully taken into account by the council of ministers.
i believe that the commission's proposals and the amendments proposed in the report largely contribute to adapting this directive to the objectives which the union has set itself in the field of the environment and climate change, by means of taxation which favours energy products with the lowest possible impact on the environment. but like other colleagues, i have serious reservations about the principle of proportionality and the impact it might have on the price of petrol. with fuel prices already putting pressure on european consumers, i do not think this increase in the price of petrol would be the most appropriate measure. in addition, it would also limit the interest of consumers in vehicles that run on this type of fuel, so it will also have an impact on the car manufacturing industry in the european union. given that diesel engines are one of the strengths of european industry, i think we could lose this comparative advantage. and we're not going to have the environmental advantage, because there's an energy difference between gasoline and diesel.
in writing. the proposal for a directive on the taxation of energy products and electricity is undoubtedly ambitious from the point of view of environmental protection. i agree that we need a substantial reduction in co2 emissions not only for the sake of environmental sustainability, but also for the health of european citizens. however, the proposal comes at a difficult time for the european economy. increasing the levels of excise duties on energy products as well as on electricity could generate an increase in budget revenues. however, all eu citizens already affected by the application of tough austerity measures would be the ones who would be hit by such decisions, especially in relation to vulnerable households. in addition, the minimum level of excise duty on diesel is to be increased from 2013 onwards, as diesel is currently taxed less than petrol. this is not a realistic timeframe to put such a measure into practice without disrupting the market in member states where diesel is preferred by car owners precisely because of the lower price. i therefore oppose the commission's proposal because it does not fairly represent the interests of european consumers.
in writing. i think it would be a big mistake to impose extra burdens on citizens in this time of crisis. unfortunately, this directive could do just that, as it could lead to higher energy, electricity and fuel prices. the report adopted by the econ commission rejected itre's suggestion to reduce the high price of co2 emissions, and this will be felt in consumer prices. also, although there are some references to low-income categories, measures to protect them remain vague and ineffective. the social impact of this new directive could be very serious, especially in member states such as romania, where harsh measures have already been imposed on citizens, such as mass redundancies, wage cuts or tax increases. the directive would impose a double additional tax burden on these persons: they would pay both direct taxes on energy and the cost of the inflation that the taxes would generate. i think these concerns are legitimate and that is why i think we should reconsider our support for this directive.
in writing. the proposed amendment to the directive on the restructuring of the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity introduces two components for the taxation of energy: taxation in relation to carbon dioxide emissions and taxation of general energy consumption. the introduction of carbon taxation is the introduction of a carbon tax, which will affect both industry, households and european competitiveness. i believe that for households, the removal of the currently applicable shields and reductions is a difficult task to bear, especially in this period of economic crisis, when unemployment is alarming and the quality of life of many european households has decreased. the increase in diesel taxation will also have a negative impact on both car owners and the car industry, which, according to european regulations, has already invested in less polluting engines. i welcome the adoption of the amendments tabled, which call for electricity used for irrigation to be exempt from taxation and for electricity used to power electric and hybrid vehicles to be exempt from taxation by 1 january 2023. i consider that the setting of the carbon dioxide tax at eur 20/t is arbitrary. this value should be set by the market, and not arbitrarily modified by the commission, just to make investments in renewable energy profitable.
on behalf of the alde group. any change to the regulation to facilitate the rapid implementation of cohesion policy programmes will certainly have an immediate and real impact on the economies of the member states most affected by the crisis. it is therefore extremely important that we adopt tomorrow the report on risk-sharing instruments for member states facing serious difficulties with their financial stability, in order to provide them with the financial support they need to continue their projects and the process of economic recovery. it is also very important that the council adopts it as soon as possible. even though the report is very technical, the alde group supports the present compromise because, in our view, it is a balanced proposal which takes account of the problems that have been identified during the debates. in addition, it is very important that the european investment bank is in a very strong position in the use of this financial instrument, which countries under a financial assistance programme will be able to use in the next year and a half. the instrument itself enjoys our support, but we must ensure that projects which do not make economic sense are not financed. i think it is particularly important that the projects financed undergo a detailed cost-benefit analysis to ensure that they are geared to increasing the number of jobs and, by implication, the competitiveness of the member states.
the ongoing economic and financial crisis across the eu is affecting the macroeconomic stability of many countries and access to finance. the proposal for a risk-sharing instrument seeks to strengthen synergies between loan programmes and union funds in countries receiving assistance from the eu or the imf: the commission has also proposed that the member states should be given the possibility to apply the principle of proportionality. the aim is to find solutions for projects that generate viable income. examples would be the obtaining of private financing for infrastructure projects that generate net revenues, for example toll motorways, or productive investments for which state aid has a maximum allowable limit. the proposed solution is of course an exception, but it is a concrete measure, in the context of the crisis, of risk-sharing with the european investment bank and other financial institutions, in order to maintain the degree of involvement of private investors and to overcome the major obstacles to the implementation of cohesion policy programmes. the use of the mechanism is an additional solution for the use of the structural and cohesion funds, which could not be absorbed by the end of the current 2007-2013 programming period. the commission's proposal to limit the amount of the appropriations to 10% is a very good idea and should be adopted. i congratulate the rapporteur on the excellent way in which she has handled this report.
the mistrust and reluctance of private investors as well as the financial sector have meant that in some member states there is a high chance that a number of strategic projects will not be realised. the main projects affected are infrastructure projects and the analysis shows that the financial resources needed to develop the infrastructure of the european union for the period 2010-2030 are over eur 1 500 billion. this figure shows that an efficient transport network at european level requires substantial efforts and that this requires diversified sources of funding, both public and private. a risk-sharing instrument will be a real solution to these problems we are facing and will allow the continuation of the implementation of european programmes by injecting additional funds into the economy from the eib and other financial institutions. funds to co-finance projects implemented with the support of the structural and cohesion funds will have an immediate impact on the economy, contributing significantly to job growth.
i welcome the coordination between the loan programmes and the union funds for countries facing financial stability difficulties. it is important to ensure the continuation of programmes co-financed by the erdf and the cohesion fund in countries subject to budgetary constraints. i believe that this proposal will have a positive impact on the economies of the member states affected by the crisis. it will allow major infrastructure projects to be developed, thus contributing to economic recovery through investment. romania is among the countries receiving financial assistance from the imf. in my country, economic hardship has affected infrastructure projects. in these circumstances, the measures discussed today are welcome, especially since the imf and the european commission have recommended romania to use as much european funds as possible in the national infrastructure development programme.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, colleagues, this is a controversial agreement because, while its aim – fighting terrorists through preventive means – is welcome, it undeniably interferes with the protection of other equally important values such as privacy and data protection. i am not the only person saying that the agreement violates this right and eu legislation; the european data protection supervisor demonstrated it in a thorough analysis. what is more, the scope of the agreement goes far beyond combating terrorism. many say it is a better agreement than the previous one – which only means it is less bad than the previous one – but it remains an agreement with severe consequences for our fundamental rights. i respect the fact that the american authorities and lawmakers are interested in their citizens’ rights, but i believe that we are entitled to care above all about the protection of our own european citizens’ rights. it has been said that, without this agreement, our air carriers will violate eu legislation on data protection because if they want to land in the usa they will continue to transfer data. but you must remember that the agreement obliges the air carriers to implement the ‘push’ obligations in two years, which means investing a huge amount of money in equipment and software to transmit all data to the us authorities in real time. what if some of the air carriers are not able to implement this obligation? big companies will probably do it, but either smaller companies will be forced out of business by this expenditure or the current situation will continue. they will allow the extraction of data by the american authorities directly from their computers. i have never believed that a bad law is better than no law.
i hope that this parliament can give priority to the diversity of opinions and i am convinced that we all agree that the risks of transnational crime and the risks of terrorism are global risks that require global responses. the only way forward in this context is to have a legal framework, and that is how this treaty was adopted, which, from the point of view of european citizens, even the lame ones, as it is written, constitutes a rule of law that guarantees them respect for their rights. but unfortunately, we have to give priority to a number of fundamental rights. i agree and respect personal data, but we must agree that european citizens have the right to individual security as a fundamental right of the right to life. from this point of view, i believe that the improvements that have been made in this agreement, the fact that we can renegotiate, we can monitor and i have no reason not to trust the european commission and the american authorities, are arguments for voting in favour of this agreement.
madam president, today’s agreement is an expression of the new balance between an ever-inquisitive state and the ever-decreasing respect for the privacy of their citizens after 11 september 2001. i am not going to dwell on technicalities; i will rather try to make three points. first, before being concerned with the transfer of pnrs, we should be concerned primarily with their content upon collection. i do not see the relevance of, for instance, my trade union membership when booking a flight. second, the data does not become public through transfer but through collection here in europe. third, our american friends want the data mostly to compare it with their own data already collected through other means. in view of the above, i am afraid that we do not have an alternative to approving the agreement, which i personally intend to do.
in writing. – the eu-us pnr agreement should be favoured because it is an effective tool for the fight against terrorism and serious transnational crime. the us authorities have provided several concrete examples where the pnr data system had been crucial in disrupting major terrorist plots. the cases of david headley, faisal shahzad or najibullah zazi, arrested before they could accomplish planned terrorist crimes, are strong arguments in favour of the security benefits this agreement carries. the agreement also provides for judicial and extra-judicial means of redress for individuals who may feel that they or their data have been improperly handled. according to the us department of homeland security, however, no complaints of abuse of personal data have been recorded so far under the pnr agreement currently in effect. the conclusion of this agreement is a good opportunity for the eu to advance negotiations with the usa for the application of the reciprocity principle on the elimination of visas for all eu member states, including romania, bulgaria, cyprus and poland, in the framework of the visa waiver programme.
in writing. we live in a globalised society, where potential dangers are no longer confined to national borders. the fight against terrorism has exposed some states to serious threats. this is the case in several european countries, but also in the united states. the agreement with the us on the exchange of passenger data legislates a current practice, based on a provisional agreement of 2007. such data have been used for the last 60 years by customs authorities around the world, and new technologies have come to facilitate their transmission. according to the draft agreement, the information will be stored in a secure database and will be used mainly for the prevention and investigation of cross-border crime. it is important to note that eu citizens have the right to compensation if their personal data is used in an inappropriate manner. the conclusion of this eu-us agreement, modelled on other similar agreements (with australia, for example) is important for the strengthening of cooperation, as it is a guarantee for the continuation of the policy of eliminating travel visas for citizens and of free movement in safe conditions.
i voted for the conclusion of the agreement because it represents a step forward in eu-us cooperation in combating terrorism. the current document provides more safeguards for passengers than the 2007 text, ensuring enhanced protection of personal data. for example, those concerned have access to the information stored and can make changes if necessary. furthermore, it mentions the possibility of the deletion of part of the information by the passengers concerned. i would also stress that the principles of proportionality and reciprocity have been included. the us authorities are thus under an obligation to provide the relevant data to the european party. the right to privacy is ensured by clearly defining the conditions under which access to information is granted, and the establishment of differentiated penalty thresholds is a significant improvement over the previous text.
i abstained on this report because my country has a reserved position on this proposal for a directive. a single tax base is very important for the development of economic integration. only then can there be fair competition in the field of taxation. at the same time, harmonisation strengthens the eu's competitiveness and has beneficial effects on the economy and the labour market. the proposal for a directive initially provides for the application of the levy to be optional and each member state will be able to set its own tax rate. however, several national parliaments, including my own, have invoked the principle of subsidiarity. in addition, romania requested clarifications on the definition of the principles and concepts related to the tax base. i believe that we need fair tax competition to protect the national tax base.
this report is a testament to the positive role of parliament, because a number of amendments, which mainly concerned the principle of proportionality, were adopted by parliament and thus succeeded in mitigating a fundamentally wrong proposal that the european commission made at that time. i think that this automatic price indexation that has been avoided, the taxation based on co2 emissions and the energy content of the product was fundamentally wrong, introduced a certain bureaucracy, led to higher prices, which does not prove at all that there is a very clear vision of economic reform and economic revival in general. i think that once these amendments have been accepted mrs lulling's report can be regarded as acceptable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of concluding this agreement because i believe that it will contribute to promoting good forest governance and strengthening forest law in the central african republic, including from the perspective of sustainability, responsibility and good forest management. • for this country, trade in wood products represents 4% of gdp and 60% of exports in this sector are made to the european union. the new agreement will create even greater opportunities on the european market for timber from the central african republic, while allowing for responsible and balanced management of forest resources. i appreciate the extensive consultation process with the private sector and civil society in developing the definitions of legality for timber and timber products in the central african republic. i welcome the fact that this model of involvement of all stakeholders will be continued through the multi-stakeholder national committee that will contribute to the implementation and monitoring of the agreement. i point out that the land and property rights of indigenous communities that depend on the use of forest resources must be clarified through legislative reforms at the national level. i draw attention to the importance of the timely entry into force of the agreement in order to effectively contribute to increasing sustainability and halting the degradation of forests caused by illegal logging and trade in illegal timber products.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of a voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the central african republic on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber and timber products entering the european union. the agreement with the central african republic provides an instrument to combat illegal logging, to support the improvement of standards, governance and enforcement in the forestry sector of the central african republic, and to strengthen market opportunities for central african republic wood products entering europe. forests cover about 8.7% of the car's land area, and the forestry sector accounts for 4% of the country's gdp and 40% of export earnings. 60% of central african timber is exported to europe. the agreement covers all timber products to be exported, including fuel wood chips, logs, sawdust, wood furniture and veneer. the central african republic's system for verifying the legality of timber and timber products will apply to all exports, not just to the european union. the new eu timber regulation, due to enter into force in march 2013, will ban the sale of illegally harvested timber or products derived from illegally harvested timber on the eu market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of concluding this agreement because i believe it will help to encourage trade on the eu market and improve forest governance. i appreciate that these voluntary partnership agreements will lead to increased transparency, strengthened civil society participation and an end to illegal logging. i want to point out that about 45 percent of liberia is covered by forests. in addition, the country has more than half of the remaining tropical rain forests in west africa. i welcome the efforts to transform the forestry sector into a sustainable and responsible one, as well as the direct involvement of both civil society and industry and forest-dwelling communities. i believe that the voluntary partnership agreement with liberia will contribute positively to the development and economic growth of that country, while helping to combat forest degradation with its consequences on climate change.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the voluntary partnership agreement between the european union and the republic of liberia on forest law enforcement, governance and trade in timber products entering the european union. nearly 45 percent of liberia is forested, and the country has more than half of the remaining tropical rain forests in west africa. the timber regulation, which will enter into force in march 2013, aims to facilitate legitimate trade in timber products and ensure a level playing field for all market participants. it will ban the sale in the eu of illegally harvested timber and timber products manufactured in accordance with the rules of the country of origin. the regulation lays down the obligations of operators placing timber or related products on the eu market. it will aim to guarantee access to european markets for products from legal sources while halting deforestation in liberia. i ask the commission to report regularly to parliament on progress in implementing existing voluntary partnership agreements and the negotiation and implementation of new ones.
in writing. − the european union is currently facing a persistent economic and financial crisis, which is affecting not only the macroeconomic stability of many member states, but also access to finance throughout the european union. the aim of this measure is to find a solution to the serious problems faced by certain member states in obtaining the private financing needed to carry out infrastructure projects and productive investments which can only be partially financed by public funds. the commission proposal only concerns revenue-generating projects, as the investment costs covered by the revenue are not eligible for eu co-financing. in the member states most affected by the financial and economic crisis, there is a risk that a number of strategic projects that have been selected for co-financing by cohesion policy programmes will not be realised, as private sector investors and banks either lack the liquidity to provide loans for projects and project promoters, or are no longer willing to take on the risks of investments under current conditions.
in writing. − i welcome the commission's proposal and consider that its purpose is to ensure the continuation of the implementation of programmes co-financed by the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion fund in the context of the economic recovery of the member states receiving financial assistance.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the proposal to create synergies between loan programmes and eu funds in member states receiving union or international monetary fund financial assistance. member states face serious obstacles in attracting private financing for the implementation of investment and infrastructure projects that can only be partly financed from public funds. in this context, the report is very important as it presents a framework to mitigate the risks associated with lending to banks or project promoters in member states with financial stability problems. it is vital that the involvement of private investors is maintained and we must ensure that all obstacles to the implementation of cohesion programmes are minimised. the report is an important step in this direction.
in writing. − with this report, the eu is creating a risk-sharing instrument for countries with financial assistance, thus providing itself with a tool to facilitate future investment in countries with financial problems. the use of the structural funds as a guarantee fund to facilitate the financing of infrastructure projects and to attract private investors is an economically correct measure which could benefit a significant number of states in difficulty in the future.
in writing. − the transfer of passenger name record data remains a controversial topic. i also voted in favour of the us-eu agreement in this area because i believe that the exchange of information is necessary for the investigation of transnational criminal activities and for the protection of european citizens. the agreement also contains important clauses on the protection of personal data and the storage and deletion of such information. without those provisions, i could not have supported the agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement because i believe that, although it is perfect, it is a step forward from the previous agreement of 2007. a very important positive element is that pnr data will be anonymised after 6 months and, in addition, european citizens will have full access to this data. it also ensured that any decision based on the analysis of this data was not based on automated processing but on human assessment. at the same time, we must bear in mind that at least two proposals are currently under discussion which will also influence eu agreements on data exchanges. the first is the directive on the use of pnr data, but also the data protection package. in this respect, i believe that this agreement, like other eu agreements involving the exchange of pnr data, should be revised following the adoption of new european rules on data protection and the use of pnr.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement, which allows the eu to strengthen cooperation with the united states and thereby combat terrorism more effectively. we must not forget that the safety of our citizens must be our primary objective. i also welcome the fact that, as a result of the renegotiations, the agreement ensures better protection of european citizens' data.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the agreement between the united states of america (us) and the eu on the use and transfer of passenger name record (pnr) data as it replaces the 2007 agreement and provides more safeguards than the 2007 agreement. to date, several member states have concluded agreements or memoranda of understanding with the usa, including on the transfer of passenger data, a prerequisite imposed by the usa for the lifting of visas for nationals of member states wishing to travel to the usa. therefore, in the context of the approval of the agreement between the us and the eu on the use and transfer of passenger name record data, i am asking the united states of america to eliminate visas for romanian citizens traveling to the us. we welcome the adoption of the 'push' method as the standard method for data transmission as well as the provisions of article 5 concerning data security and integrity. we regret that the agreement does not provide for reciprocity between the parties and does not provide sufficient guarantees for the legal remedies of european citizens, the applicable law being us law. i would stress that the agreement must be interpreted in the context of a global approach to pnr, including negotiations with other third countries (australia and canada), as well as the proposal for an eu-wide pnr system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the common consolidated corporate tax base, considering that european administrative rules in the field of taxation are needed to eliminate costs and bring more certainty to investors. i also hope that this framework will be applied as soon as possible to all types of enterprise and that it will be a first step towards the introduction of a minimum level of taxation at european level. we must not forget that the european union needs common tax policies to promote the economic integration of the member states.
in writing. − given that there are different tax bases in the eu countries which in practice act as trade barriers to growth and employment, i think this proposal is a good one, which can bring improvements for businesses that carry out cross-border activities to increase the competitiveness of eu businesses.
in writing. − the proposed directive will likely produce certain positive effects such a lower risk of double taxation and tax evasion and fraud as well as greater fiscal transparency and legal certitude for multinational corporations. on the other hand the proposal will be applied to a highly heterogeneous economical area, where any harmonising measure has to be thoroughly considered. apportionment formulas based on factors such as wage costs or assets are likely to harm the economic balance of the newer member states. such factors should only play a decisive role within a common corporate tax policy once their convergence in all member states is adequate. otherwise reduced enforcement costs and red tape in the eu will be achieved at the expense of the competitiveness of some of its member states. moreover, the proposal can be perceived as a first step in the creation of a common eu corporate tax policy, which has strong subsidiarity implications, and which should be considered by all eu and national stakeholders. therefore i voted for the legislative resolution but against the amended proposal in order to point out that while i agree with the general idea behind the commission’s proposal, i am not satisfied with the final result.
in writing. − i abstained on this report because romania has a reserved position on the current version of the proposal. this proposal promotes renewable energy sources, contributing to the european 20-20-20 strategy to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. providing the necessary framework for carbon taxation would also lead to an increase in energy efficiency. i also support the rapporteur's view that a positive signal should be sent. the proposal for a directive would also raise the minimum levels of excise duty on energy products and electricity. moreover, the price of diesel is already quite high, and a further increase would be to the detriment of consumers. i think it's important to have a constructive approach without making things more complicated.
in writing. − energy is a key element of any economy, with a major impact on all sectors. the specific policies promoted in this field must ensure the development of a climate favourable to the promotion and exploitation of all available sources of energy, so as to mitigate the negative effects on this market. the revised proposal for a directive adapts the structure of energy taxation to support the objective of a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy and to avoid problems in the internal market. by introducing a co2-related element in energy taxation, the proposal aims to bring energy into line with eu commitments to combat climate change. the european union's approach to the taxation of energy products and electricity is converging with a view to ensuring a tax framework that is as favourable as possible to achieving maximum efficiency in promoting the best possible use of energy products at the highest possible rates and, at the same time, reducing waste and unjustified consumption of these products.
in writing. − i consider this proposal to be an important contribution to the achievement of the europe 2020 strategy on greenhouse gas emission reductions.
in writing. − i voted against this report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 2003/96/ec restructuring the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity, because i strongly believe that it will constitute a further and excessive burden on our citizens, who have already been heavily subjected to the dramatic effects of the economic and financial crisis. the main effect of this taxation will be an increase in energy and electricity bills in all eu member states due to the imposition of a flat rate of tax in addition to other national taxes. this is unacceptable, firstly because prices for energy and fuel have increased tremendously in recent years; secondly, because a flat rate of tax is discriminatory, since it does not take into account the socio-economic, structural and infrastructural differences between eu countries; lastly, because it greatly interferes with the domestic fiscal policies of the member states. i believe that if environment protection is the goal of the eu, this should be achieved by proposing investments in renewable energies and infrastructures, not through a tax which will have to be paid by our citizens, and them alone.
in writing. − this draft council directive on the restructuring of the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity proposes to review the old rules on the taxation of energy products and electricity in the european union. the new rules aim to restructure the way energy products are taxed, to eliminate current imbalances and to take into account both their co2 emissions and their energy content. by taxing polluting products and services differently, without taking account of environmental rules, producers are encouraged to invest in research to develop more energy-efficient products and services. in this way, the legislative changes proposed by this directive can contribute to the promotion of research and innovation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments to the report and welcome the decision adopted by the european parliament on the system of taxation of energy products and electricity in the european union. the methodology proposed by the european commission would have led to a substantial increase in excise duties on petrol in most member states, which would have been detrimental to citizens who invested in diesel cars, especially given their competitive advantages. the methodology proposed by the commission also disadvantages farmers, who should have invested more in agricultural works or irrigation. however, i decided to abstain in the final vote, given a number of other provisions in the report which i do not consider to be entirely satisfactory.
in writing. - i voted against the amendment to the energy taxation directive because the proposal introduces two components for energy taxation: taxation in relation to carbon dioxide emissions and taxation of general energy consumption. i voted against amendments nos 21 and 44, which were adopted by the european parliament. amendment 21 removes the possibility of applying exemptions and reductions to households and charitable organisations as provided for in directive 2003/96/ec, and amendment 44 limits the granting of reductions for heating to households only until the beginning of 2025. i voted against amendments nos 23 and 40, which removed the existing exemptions for fuels used in shipping and aviation. shipping is a less polluting and cheaper transport and should therefore be encouraged. air transport is, as of 1 january 2012, included in the emissions trading scheme (ets) and the application of a new emission-based taxation would have been double taxation. i also think it is inappropriate to increase the tax rate on diesel fuel, because in 2009 a european regulation required car manufacturers to invest in less polluting engines. the increase in the level of diesel taxation will affect both car manufacturers and european citizens who have bought less polluting diesel-powered cars.
in writing. − according to some estimates, the annual loss of tax revenue for the 27 eu member states amounts to around eur 1 billion. i believe that there is a need for closer cooperation at european union level to combat tax fraud and evasion and i therefore voted in favour of the report on finding concrete solutions in this area. to achieve the goal of eradicating these harmful behaviours, a common european tax framework, reform of accounting rules and stricter regulation of company registers are needed. the revenues recovered from combating fraud and evasion would allow eu governments to pay their debts and make significant public investments.
in writing. − i believe that there is a need to continue to emphasise the key role that the common consolidated corporate tax base can play in combating tax fraud at union level.
in writing. − i am pleased to note that the danish presidency has tax cooperation among its priorities, as the subject is topical, especially in the current economic context. i hope that by june the european commission will have proposed concrete measures to combat tax evasion, thus complying with the decision taken by the council in march. i also hope that the european commission will come forward with a proposal to revise the interest and royalties directive as soon as possible, with a view to eliminating tax evasion through hybrid financial instruments in the eu.
in writing. − i fully support this resolution. tax fraud generates illicit funding which is invested in illicit activities and is often subject to money laundering. too light an approach can result in tax fraud and tax evasion generating – in time – complex mechanisms that secure virtually inexhaustible resources for organised crime networks and corruption. the resolution touches upon some of the more substantial problems that we witness today across europe, such as: secrecy within the banking sector, the resort to foreign non-cooperating jurisdictions (tax havens) in order to conceal both licit and illicit financial interests, corporate tax avoidance, inefficient collection of tax, the abundance of unjustified exemptions etc. expectedly, each of these forms of tax avoidance and evasion are more specific to some countries than others. within the eu these specificities should be accurately traced out and countered by region-specific measures.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, colleagues, i am glad we are having this debate today. i am hoping for an open and public debate on the eu’s accession to the european convention on human rights and on the so-called reform of the european court of human rights, as the two issues are closely connected. regarding the eu’s accession to the european convention, today we are in a situation of being in violation of the treaties, particularly of article 6 of the treaty on european union, which makes accession binding. the file is stuck in the council due to the objections of the uk government and partially of the french government. concerning the so-called reform of the european court of human rights, the uk chairmanship of the council of europe is now – as we speak – holding a conference in brighton, where several proposals are being discussed. i cannot stress enough how worried the european court of human rights, the ngos and human rights defenders are about some of these proposals. if accepted, these counter-reforms would severely diminish the rights of the victims of human rights violations. more than 60 meps have signed an appeal on these issues, which i have promoted in the european parliament, and many national mps have done the same. let me also express concern about the fact that these two issues are being dealt with without any transparency. the council examines session documents that are not accessible to the public and do not even appear on the registers. this is a violation of the regulation on access to documents. the brighton conference drafts are accessible only because of leaks. neither the public nor ngos have been consulted. this is not the way we should deal with fundamental rights issues in europe. i think it is time for the commission and the council to make this clear to all member states. i appeal to the uk government to change its position and to let the eu apply the lisbon treaty obligations, and i trust that my colleagues here will do their utmost to ensure that this happens. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – madam president, i think that my colleague is actually making a mistake and confusing the european court of human rights in strasbourg with the national courts in russia, in ukraine and in the other countries. i think there is a huge difference between the two. if someone knows how the european court of human rights functions, they understand that there is always the possibility of having the right decision. so far the jurisprudence of the european court of human rights, which was literally applied also by the luxembourg court of justice, has proved that it was a very good court with very sound decisions.
in writing. i welcome the eu's accession to the european convention on human rights (echr), as the union needs to have a clear system for the protection of fundamental rights. i appreciate that it will make a major contribution to strengthening the human rights regime throughout europe, ensuring greater protection for citizens, including with regard to community legislation. the debate is not new, but the provisions of the lisbon treaty provide the legal instruments necessary to carry out this project. the union is founded on respect for human rights and already has a 'charter of fundamental rights', but to ensure their full promotion and protection, a specialised judicial mechanism is also needed. the european court of justice has no specific powers in this area, whereas the strasbourg court has a long and varied history in this area. while informal consultation has so far ensured consistency in the practice of the two courts, this accession will require technical harmonisation, both as regards the statute of the two courts and the details of judicial cooperation. it will also bring important benefits to the member states by bringing legal clarity, avoiding possible conflicts of jurisdiction or divergences of provisions between the echr and community law.
author. − the current problems with the high number of forged biometric passports are largely due to the fact that not enough attention is paid to the entire issuing cycle. as the european parliament's 2008 report rightly states, it is not enough to guarantee a high level of security of passports if the way they are obtained is not as secure. the main problems that persist, in my view, are related to the reliability of the data collected, especially on children and the elderly, but also to the number and security of origin documents accepted as proof of identity for the issuance of passports. in other words, there is no point in producing secure passports if they are issued on the basis of false documents. to counter these problems, the commission needs to present a clear assessment of the shortcomings throughout the passport issuance cycle. i think the most important element to consider is the origin documents. at present, there are dozens of different documents at union level on the basis of which a passport can be issued, and many of these documents have questionable security levels and can be easily forged. two things are therefore essential: on the one hand, limiting the number of origin documents accepted for the issuing of passports, and on the other hand, establishing minimum security standards for these origin documents. in the same vein, a possibility to be considered is the harmonisation of national identity card models at eu level. this is necessary as identity cards are most often used both as origin and travel documents within the eu. finally, i would also like to stress once again the need for a thorough study by the commission on the security of the entire biometric document issuance cycle, as this will be of particular relevance for future smart borders systems.
biometric passports have been and are still difficult to accept by the population. it does not readily accept new things, especially if they are not adequately explained. true, while it may seem to be a very secure system for identifying travelers, fraud is possible because of the various technologies and devices that hackers use to steal data from the chips. people fear that just as bank card data is stolen, so too is the data on the biometric passport chip. i think the public should be better informed about what a biometric passport is and the security measures it provides. it is necessary to consider the possibility of creating a system in the future whereby the radio frequency identification device contained in the passport chip can only be detected by the competent authorities.
a few remarks very close to those made by my colleagues so far: firstly, the new common agricultural policy will not be able to enter into force without the new regulations on less-favoured areas, which is impossible as long as parliament has no access to the simulations carried out. parliament cannot turn its back on something that is not known, because it is ultimately parliament's role to explain to the citizens the decisions it has taken. any decision taken away from public opinion will be a contested decision and will lack legitimacy. secondly, without waiting for the results of the simulations, the commission should proceed to draft another proposal reflecting the european parliament's observations. farmers expect all factors that limit production to be taken into account, including geographical factors such as isolation or socio-economic criteria.
in the debate on the quality package, i tabled a number of amendments relating to the issue under discussion today. the aim was to introduce a new european label called 'product on my farm', applicable to products sold directly on or near the farm, including in the market, or sold by direct delivery to consumers. i think this would be the best guideline to follow in establishing a definition of local products. as regards criteria such as the distance from the farm to the consumer or the mode of production, i consider that they are not relevant, only the direct link between producer and consumer matters. local sales systems bring advantages to producers, who can benefit from a higher percentage of the final price, and to consumers, who can benefit from fresh produce at affordable prices. the issue of potential food nationalism raised by the questioners is a false issue. if anything, it's price and quality, and if local products meet those criteria, consumers will buy them.
today's debate takes place one year after the launch of the european quality policy in agriculture. as part of the cap reform, this initiative promotes the preservation of europe's local culinary heritage. the regional specific has a crucial role in maintaining cultural diversity as a whole. local recipes and products express the traditions of the different areas of the union and support organic farming. to preserve this cultural resource, the definition of locally produced food needs to be clarified. this discussion is all the more relevant in the case of foodstuffs that have a cross-border production process. the situation of recipes and products common to the border regions is also unclear. i would like to ask commissioner ciolos if the geographical criterion will be the predominant element in this classification and in relation to which benchmark the distance used in the granting of the local product status will be determined.
according to statistics from the authorities in athens, 90% of illegal immigrants in 2011 entered the union through greece. any member state would have great difficulty in coping with such a situation. it is once again proving that a coherent approach is needed at european level to deal with such cases. it is necessary for all neighbouring countries to cooperate in order to regulate migration flows and secure borders. the role of frontex is crucial in this process, which is why the agency must become even more involved in the efforts of the authorities. there is also the question of speeding up administrative procedures for granting legal status to immigrants. i point to the voluntary repatriation plan announced just yesterday by the greek government. it is a step forward in resolving the situation, especially as it involves ngos.
nuclear fusion offers the prospect of a nearly limitless source of clean energy. i believe that by using the knowledge base provided by the european joint undertaking for iter and the development of fusion energy, the iter experimental nuclear fusion reactor under construction at cadarache in france can prepare the next generation of fusion reactors and europe can become a world leader in the construction of experimental fusion reactors. it is important to secure the necessary financial resources and the agreement reached between the european parliament and the council in december 2011 provides for support for the additional costs of the iter project for the period 2012-2013. these amount to eur 1 300 million, of which eur 100 million is already included in the 2012 budget, eur 360 million is an commitment appropriation for 2013 and the ceilings for commitment appropriations under heading 1a will be increased by eur 840 million, of which eur 650 million in 2012 and eur 190 million in 2013. i support draft amending budget no 1 of 2012, which enters in the 2012 budget article 082002 euratom - european joint undertaking for iter, fusion for energy, the amount of eur 650 million in commitment appropriations, as this budgetary adjustment is fully in line with the agreement concluded in december 2011.
i welcome the agreement reached between the three european institutions on the financing of the additional costs of the iter project. it is important that this has been achieved through savings on other budget lines, without calling into question parliament's priorities for the union budget. i think the agreement reached is beneficial, given that iter is one of the most ambitious research projects in the world. its results could also pave the way to a secure, affordable, carbon-free energy source. in this context, i support securing long-term funding for this international project. i believe that the union should ensure the success of the project at an acceptable cost and with reasonable financial and technical risks. it will thus be able to fulfil its international commitment to this project.
the report now before us supports the institutional changes adopted by the lisbon treaty. the reorganisation of the commission and the creation of the european diplomatic service thus underpin the decentralisation of part of development policy. delegations' management of external assistance will be better adapted to real needs, due to direct contact with the local population. at the same time, staff in delegations must have adequate training in managing funds, as this is a new type of activity that delegations must carry out. decentralisation should also be accompanied by a review of the work of the other agencies in the field. this allows for a clear identification of funding priorities and of double funding situations. i would like to stress the role played by local authorities in understanding the environment in which union delegations operate.
europe needs competitive universities with programmes adapted to the requirements of the labour market. i support the need to link the specialisations offered by educational institutions with the possibility of employment under article 27. the number of students in romania has quadrupled in the last 20 years, but most have difficulty finding jobs commensurate with their training. programmes are also needed to facilitate initial employment and continuing vocational training. i draw attention to the importance of student involvement in the modernisation of higher education. i would like to point out in this context the dissatisfaction expressed by student associations with the erasmus for all programme. the main criticisms are that the proposal is weak in areas such as non-formal education, interactive learning, and the involvement of young people in democratic life.
the european economy can overcome the current economic crisis if we pay more attention to the education system and in particular to higher education, as the europe 2020 strategy also calls for. we can thus ensure an overall increase in the competitiveness of our economy at world level. but it is not enough to have competitive investment in higher education, it is important to facilitate the transfer of young people to the labour market, especially as the unemployment rate among them is twice as high as the general average. in addition, quality assurance of the teaching act is essential. in this regard, i proposed the establishment of a unitary mechanism for monitoring and evaluating the observance of academic standards in higher education institutions, both public and private. in this context, i also support the importance of the mutual recognition of professional qualifications in the eu, which will allow freedom of movement for labour in a europe where demographic challenges are becoming more serious. congratulations to my colleague on this balanced report and highly relevant to future generations.
in writing. i welcome the report on the modernisation of european higher education systems, and i believe that the european union's global competitiveness depends on the member states' actions in this regard. it is particularly welcome that the report calls on member states to pay greater attention to and support traditional higher education and institutions of national, ethnic or linguistic minorities. this is very important, as in many cases we see that institutions that also teach in the languages of indigenous national minorities try to suppress or make the minority language lineage insignificant. this happened in eastern europe during the communist era, and sadly, in some cases, even today. we, transylvanian hungarians, are currently trying to minimize the effects of this destructive activity and our firm goal is to ensure the completeness of the hungarian-language higher education network. unfortunately, we cannot always count on the help of our romanian colleagues in our objectives, so it is very important that the position of the european institutions confirms our objectives.
the reporter. − in 2010, the european commission adopted the eu 2020 strategy which aims to create smart, sustainable and inclusive growth and improve economic governance. one of the seven flagship initiatives of europe's growth strategy is the digital agenda for europe, a strategy to harness the potential of the rapid advances in digital technologies. parliament welcomed the adoption of the e-government action plan 2011-2015 of the european interoperability strategy and the european interoperability framework for european public services and called on the member states to take swift action to align their national strategies with these general policies. high impact services are important for cost reduction, cross-border interoperability and the achievement of the single market. given that the public procurement market represents 16% of the gdp of the european union and that smes represent 99% of the enterprises in the european union, particular attention should be paid to the cross-border interoperability of electronic public procurement systems and the widespread adoption of electronic invoicing. if it were fully available and used on a wider scale, it could lead to a reduction of up to 30% in public procurement costs. however, 14 and 12 member states respectively are already in the implementation phase of the pre- and post-allocation phases. we also welcome the initiatives of denmark, finland, italy, spain and sweden to impose electronic invoicing on public authorities and call for electronic invoicing to become mandatory for all public procurement by 2016. key elements, in particular e-identity management, interoperability and open standards are the most important prerequisites for a successful and interoperable e-government at european level. member states should review the requirements of their framework for electronic signatures in order to remove barriers to cross-border services. we call on the commission to present as soon as possible its proposal for the revision of the directive on electronic signatures, to ensure the cross-border recognition and interoperability of secure electronic authentication systems, and the decision on the mutual recognition of electronic identification and electronic authentication in the european union. parliament stresses that interoperable cross-border egovernment services should benefit from innovative architecture and technologies, 'dematerialized' (cloud computing) public services and service-oriented architecture, and calls for the upgrading to ipv6 of relevant egovernment infrastructure and online services of public interest. a secure cross-border e-government system is an integral part of the european programme on the protection of critical infrastructures. we welcome the contribution of the ida, ida abc and isa programmes and large-scale pilot projects, as well as the epractice forum, to the development and implementation of interoperable cross-border solutions. parliament supports the proposal for the connecting europe facility, which allocates some €9.2 billion to support investment in fast and ultra-fast broadband networks and pan-european digital services. parliament stresses that the connecting europe facility will provide grants to build the infrastructure necessary to launch e-identity, e-identification, e-government, e-procurement, e-health, e-justice and customs procedures services and will serve to ensure interoperability and cover the costs of operating the infrastructure at european level by connecting member states' infrastructures.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs tsitsikou, on the excellent report she has produced. advanced digital services offer opportunities for improving and modernising public services for citizens and businesses. they lead to improved efficiency and transparency of government operations. today, many public services in the member states face significant challenges. e-government can lead to the transformation of the public sector into a factor of economic and social development. moreover, it fosters economic growth and responds to the social and political challenges facing the union. i believe that a european e-government area for cross-border transactions and smes will lead to the strengthening of the digital single market. i welcome the multiple benefits that e-government can bring especially among disadvantaged groups of the population.
the european e-government action plan is an opportunity to modernise european and national public administrations by substantially reducing costs and stimulating growth, innovation and mobility at regional level. information and communication technology in local and regional public administration contributes to increased transparency, citizen accountability and reduced administrative burdens and costs. in some member states it corresponds to the removal of obstacles to administrative reform. e-government implies the optimisation and flexibility of administrative procedures. at the level of administrations at different levels, a set of rules established on certain criteria for the public procurement system, the standardization and establishment of the legal capacity of the electronic signature and the implementation of dematerialized e-government it platforms are required as a priority. we have implemented cross-border projects whose implementation has often been hampered by limited technology or lack of connectivity between neighbouring countries. i therefore insist on the need to develop crossborder interoperable services in the field of information and communication technology. i congratulate the reporter on her excellent report.
the great challenge facing humanity today, climate change, is closely tied to equality. in the event of natural disasters or their aftermath, women are 14 times more likely to die than men. one explanation is statistics that show that 70 percent of the world's poorest people are women, because they work primarily in agriculture, 85 percent of those who die from climate-related disasters are women, 75 percent of environmental refugees are women. women are still the most likely unseen victims of resource wars and climate change violence. on the other hand, women are discriminated against in terms of access to resources and technologies, to services of all kinds, including medicines. for the most part, women do not own land, cannot get credit, and, above all, do not have decision-making power. these are some of the reasons why women are less able to adapt to climate change. i believe that by addressing this issue, we are not launching a competition between gender equality and climate policies, but we need to find the most appropriate solutions to advance these areas simultaneously. i welcome the rapporteur's proposal to establish gender databases at the evaluation or launch stages of projects. a better understanding of the gender dimension of climate change is essential to finding the best policy solutions to combat it.
member of the commission. − madam president, i wish, on behalf of the commission, to thank mr gerbrandy and all the honourable members who have participated in the development of this very comprehensive, high-quality report. many of the facts that you mentioned in your opening remarks were more than convincing and told a worrying story. in the midst of a very bleak picture for biodiversity in the european union, this report, fully supporting the eu 2020 biodiversity targets and actions proposed by the commission, has reinforced my conviction that the european parliament is a major driving force in restoring this alarming loss of resources. parliament’s call for a higher restoration rate of ecosystems than proposed at global level under the convention on biological diversity is particularly significant in this respect. against the background of difficult austerity measures across the continent, this report demonstrates that the eu is maintaining its strong and steady commitment to resisting the pressure of further eroding its natural capital. this year, which will see us celebrate the 20th anniversary of the habitats directive and of natura 2000, is of particular importance. we need to acknowledge the success of our nature conservation policy and identify clearly the challenges ahead. but do the circumstances we are currently facing mean that we should protect biodiversity and the natura 2000 network with fewer resources? the answer is rather that we should be daring and innovative in the toolbox we use to develop our objectives. the report suggests a number of promising ways forward, calling as it does for collaborative biodiversity protection and more efficient mobilisation of our available financial and human resources and for us to rise above outdated economic models and embrace new, greener ones. just as collaborative consumption is revolutionising old market behaviour, collaborative biodiversity protection will reinvent the way in which all the actors involved take part in combating biodiversity loss, in ways and on a scale never witnessed before. the biodiversity crisis can be addressed successfully through new approaches that promote the exchange of knowledge, technologies, data, innovative solutions and products, and by mobilising all the actors on the ground. progress in research and innovation partnerships will facilitate this even more. however, this alone will not suffice. an in-depth review of how financial and human resources have thus far been allocated to biodiversity protection is paramount. this undeniably requires better integration in national and eu policies, in particular the common agricultural and fisheries policies, the cohesion policy, external instruments and development cooperation. it calls for more efficient mobilisation of public and private funds as well as stressing the need to minimise the pressures on biodiversity. but it also requires developing innovative partnerships with business, as is being achieved through the planned ‘no net loss’ initiative, and an increased use of instruments such as procedures for the valuation of, and payments for, ecosystem services. we are now at a crucial stage of the implementation of nature legislation: while the designation of natura 2000 sites is nearing completion (with the main gaps in the designation of marine sites), the main priority shifts to ensuring that the network is effectively managed and properly resourced. the commission proposed a strengthened integrated approach, for example by using various eu structural funds together with an enhanced biodiversity strand of the life programme. to that effect, the prioritised action frameworks to be developed by the member states will allow a strategic planning approach for the next programming period. to conclude, we look forward to engaging with parliament in the implementation of the biodiversity strategy, and i thank you for all your efforts.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. − the european natural heritage is an important ecological capital that contributes to the well-being of all citizens, which is why all eu countries must cooperate and coordinate their efforts to make better use of natural resources and limit the degradation of biodiversity. when we talk about biodiversity, we must refer to both the extraordinary biodiversity, included in the parks and nature reserves, which are already protected or are in the process of being included in this list, and the ordinary biodiversity, also known as functional biodiversity. it plays a major role in maintaining the habitat of small fauna and insects, especially those that help to pollinate plants. on the other hand, conservation of basic natural resources, animal and plant genetic resources, the environment and the steering of agrotechnological processes are necessary to ensure that the requirements of future generations are met. i believe that a balance between the european biodiversity strategy and the member states' rural development plans is essential to ensure the conservation of biodiversity.
agriculture is now faced with the challenge of producing more with less and less damage to the environment. the biodiversity strategy report rightly notes the importance of this dual challenge. however, a number of observations need to be made on the elements relating to the future common agricultural policy. the so-called greening of the cap is undoubtedly necessary and welcome, but the formula in which it has been proposed will lead to a reduction in the capacity of the agri-food sector to be more competitive and to enter a path of sustainable growth. the 30% set aside for greening is disproportionate in the context of budgetary austerity. giving up seven percent of the land is not the right decision, given the growing demand for food. diversification of crops is virtually impossible for smallholders. last but not least, the system involves too much bureaucracy and enormous costs. agriculture can make an important contribution to biodiversity conservation, but policies in this area must be chosen with particular regard to long-term food security.
biodiversity is in crisis in europe, with species disappearing at an unprecedented rate, leading to the degradation of ecosystems. the annual costs of biodiversity loss run into billions for the global economy, undermining economies, business prospects and opportunities to fight poverty. i encourage the commission and the member states to further promote a common approach to nature conservation throughout the european union, including in the outermost regions and in the overseas territories of the member states. i stress the importance of integrating the protection and conservation of biodiversity into the development, implementation and financing of all other european policies, including those on agriculture, forestry, fisheries, development, regional cohesion, energy, industry, transport, tourism, development cooperation, research and innovation. to make the union's sectoral and budgetary policies more coherent, ensure that they honour its binding commitments on the protection of biodiversity.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank mr leinen for his work on this report, which comes at the right time. as you know, the commission is busy preparing the 7th environmental action programme (eap) for adoption before the end of this year. i can say that many of the ideas which you mentioned in the introduction are ideas which we are considering for inclusion in the 7th environmental action programme. eu environment policy has been consolidated under the 6th environmental action programme. we now have legislation covering all areas except soil. in the meantime, we have developed a number of new initiatives – including on climate, biodiversity and resource efficiency – which set objectives for 2020 and contribute to the europe 2020 strategy. the 7th eap should pull all these together in an overarching, coherent framework. it should also look beyond 2020 and put in place the conditions necessary to secure a resource-efficient, low-carbon future in which natural capital is protected, valued and substantially restored. ensuring all this will require more coherent policy-making and enhanced integration of the environment into other policies. i was pleased to see implementation as the first priority highlighted in your report. as you know, i made this one of my top priorities in my nomination hearing before this house and from the beginning of my mandate. implementation failures are a major stumbling block to delivering the benefits we seek from environmental legislation. they cost us around eur 50 billion per year, lead to distortions in the single market and make it more costly to tackle environmental challenges down the road. after all, these challenges do not simply resolve themselves. last month, the commission presented ideas on how to improve the situation which will be further developed in the 7th eap. i also agree that the 7th eap should focus on the contribution of environment policy to better health and wellbeing. more needs to be done to tackle challenges arising from pollution that are not yet being adequately addressed. there are still some concerns that our current policy framework may not adequately cater for new and emerging threats. this will obviously need to be further explored. ongoing reviews of our water and air legislation will help inform the future direction of both policies. i also fully agree with you that the urban environment is an important dimension of our policy. the 7th eap should promote and support efforts by urban communities to play a leadership role. the international dimension of environment policy also needs to feature prominently in the 7th eap, which will also need to reflect the outcome of rio+20 and provide for the timely implementation of eu international commitments under the unfccc. we need global climate action consistent with the objective of keeping the global average temperature increase below 2° c compared to pre-industrial levels. i also agree that the 7th eap should provide a framework for the transition to a low-carbon economy beyond our 2020 targets. this work has already started with the 2020 low carbon roadmap, which sets out a pathway with milestones for a cost-effective, gradual transition and identifies essential enabling technologies and instruments. as always, the commitment of all stakeholders concerned is fundamental to the success of many programmes. we need to mobilise actors at all levels and in all relevant sectors to do their part. i count on your support for this. i will be following today’s debate with keen interest and i would like to thank you again for your report.
reporting for the opinion of the regi. − concern for nature as a resource and heritage for future generations must be a constant concern for all citizens. environmental policy never acts alone, but reflects the interest of civil society as a whole, as evidenced by the existence of many environmental organisations. on the other hand, there are industry reservations when environmental objectives may impose a number of limits on industrial competitiveness with effects on economic growth. these aspects only draw attention to the need for a concerted approach at european level, which must take into account local and regional specificities. europe needs an active and integrated environmental policy that is able to respond to all the challenges it faces, including economic ones, but also better cooperation between regions and across borders, especially with non-eu countries. pollution knows no borders and all actors in third countries need to be involved to protect nature, ecosystems and protected areas wherever they are located. and last but not least, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the approach he has taken in his report.
we are pleased to hear that the commission's initiative for the 7th environment action programme will be available in the second half of the year. there is still a lot to be done in integrating environmental policies into all other union policies, including structural policies, and i believe that this must be our priority. we need a coherent strategy, and this programme must sum up our vision for the environment. it is also crucial to ensure that the legislation we adopt is implemented, and we need concrete targets and deadlines for achieving the targets. environmental indicators need to be better linked to the realities at european level. we need to act quickly on biodiversity, we need political will and the appropriate financial instruments, the eu 2020 biodiversity strategy must be fully integrated into the 7th action programme.
in writing. the current 6th environment action programme, the first programme adopted by codecision, thus enhancing its legitimacy and helping to create a sense of participation in future policy proposals, will end in july 2012. it provided a comprehensive environmental policy framework, in which environmental legislation was substantially strengthened and supplemented. the 7th environment action programme should provide a comprehensive and coherent framework for strategic initiatives, setting out priority objectives and clearly showing how environmental policy can contribute to green growth, improved health and increased well-being. the programme should ensure that all stakeholders the eu institutions, member states, regional and local authorities, businesses, private sector stakeholders, ngos and civil society are involved in a joint programme. in this context, i welcome the launch by the commission, from march to 1 june 2012, of a public consultation to gather views on the eu's 7th environment action programme. it will set out the priority objectives to be pursued by 2020 to ensure better protection of the environment and to sustain our prosperity within the limits of the planet.
i voted in favour of this report, which i consider comprehensive enough, but i am convinced that there is still a great deal to be done in the european union to support the educational project, which is a vital project both for the economy and for social cohesion. i believe, however, that the 2% financing of the university system by the member states is not a sufficient guarantee that the educational project will be of quality and, above all, adapted to the requirements of the labour market. in this project i welcome the fact that the erasmus training courses were considered a useful experience for the european union and i also believe that they should be continued. i also think that the issues of the safeguards that must accompany individual educational projects are worth considering and i think that the recommendation to member states to guarantee access to education is a useful one.
i voted in favour of this resolution because the military coup has endangered the constitutional order of mali. this country is among the poorest in the world, but it had managed to maintain itself among the democracies of africa. because of recent events, it has become one of the most dangerous areas on the globe, and the rebellion in the north has brought the region to the brink of humanitarian catastrophe. it is positive that last week the power was transferred to civilians, with the new interim president being inaugurated, but efforts must be intensified to avoid an internal conflict with dramatic effects on the population. i welcome the commission's decision to urgently supplement humanitarian aid, especially for refugees. i stress the need to open humanitarian corridors to ensure the delivery of food and medicine to the most affected people.
i consider this resolution to be one of the most important resolutions adopted today because it deals with a practice which is becoming increasingly common, namely the expropriation of shares or property of companies from the european union in other third countries. the situation of argentina, which intends to expropriate a european company, tends not to remain a singular situation, but tends to become generalized. unfortunately, some governments believe that the answer to the crisis is to nationalize or expropriate property, which is fundamentally wrong and calls into question the ability of the world trade organization to act as a regulator of markets and as a guarantor of good economic practices. for these reasons i voted in favour of this resolution.
i voted for this report because it meets the objective of including gender issues in all union policies. studies show that women are more vulnerable to the effects of climate change, especially in the case of migration caused by drought and water scarcity. they may even account for 75% of all environmental refugees, but women should not be seen as victims, but rather as contributors to preventing global warming through more responsible behaviour and a central role in water management. the latter was recognised at un level as part of the international decade 'water, the source of life' running until 2015. i encourage closer cooperation with the un to promote women's participation in environmental protection programmes.
i abstained on this report, which i find interesting only because it manages to take stock of the whole problem of climate change and its impact on women's lives, but in reality this report is just a trivial inventory of problems and it does not find any solutions to meet this challenge. i agree that women are the beneficiaries of the risks associated with disasters, of the issues related to water management, i also agree that the impact on migration and on health is predominantly with women, but i would expect, in a coherent policy, a response to these challenges. unfortunately, he is not in the report and he probably only made the report to check an absolutely important matter, but in my opinion treated absolutely formally.
i voted for this report because we need to step up our efforts to protect biodiversity quickly. a quarter of all species could disappear in the next 30 years. i support article 44 on the further involvement of local actors. i also stress the importance of regional formats to ensure a coordinated approach. i would point out that the eu strategy for the danube region includes the preservation of biodiversity in its fields of action under the priority axis of environmental protection. i'm calling attention to the problem of illegal fishing and poaching. for example, over a hundred people involved in such activities were caught in the four months since the establishment of the coast guard in dobrogea. that is why i am in favour of the article 86 proposal for a european coast guard.
i voted for this report because environmental and climate issues should be given more consideration in the quality of life debate. a high level of protection is not only beneficial for the environment but also for the economy. in this context, i would stress the importance of integrating environmental objectives into all union policies. although the 6th action programme has strengthened the legislation, its results are not entirely satisfactory. i would draw attention to the fact that the implementation of the environmental acquis is still insufficient. the 7th action programme must set out concrete objectives to enable the transition to a sustainable future. it should also provide a comprehensive and coherent framework to overcome the constant challenges and to tackle a much more ambitious vision.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 1/2012 of the european union for the financial year 2012, which provides for the entry in the 2012 budget of article 08 20 02 euratom european joint undertaking for iter fusion for energy, amounting to eur 650 million in commitment appropriations, as i believe it is important to secure the necessary sources of funding for one of the most important and promising projects of the european union. this appropriation is intended to cover the financing of the expenditure relating to the purchase, hire, maintenance and repair of equipment and installations, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or rental of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, the purchase, hire or hire of furniture, and the cost of repairs. under this agreement, the ceiling for heading 1a of the multiannual financial framework is increased by eur 840 million, of which eur 650 million in 2012 and eur 190 million in 2013. i believe that achieving the objectives of the iter project can ensure that european citizens have secure and clean energy in the future.
in writing. − education, and in particular higher education, shapes the attitudes and values that underpin society, fosters individual autonomy and creativity, and promotes knowledge. better coordination between member states in the field of higher education is a precondition for achieving the objectives of professional integration and economic growth in europe. i believe that in order to respond to the challenges of the communication society in which we live, member states should strive to make higher education accessible to as many people as possible and give priority to the quality of training of citizens and research, while promoting mutual recognition of diplomas and qualifications between member states.
in writing. − the university is by its very nature an eminently european institution, having been born on the old continent through the happy symbiosis of tradition and innovation. from the founding of the first universities to the present, this institution has evolved from a distant and elite institutional entity to a veritable headquarters of research, innovation, open to the restructuring of knowledge for the benefit of society. in the european system, universities are truly 'public' institutions whose ultimate aims are linked to the collective interest of the whole of society. the supranational dimension of universities is becoming increasingly important, no doubt thanks to the sorbonne-bologna process, which was launched in paris in 1998 after the famous sorbonne declaration. i would like to point out that of the more than 4000 higher education institutions in the european union, only 200 are among the top 500 universities in the world, and of these, few are in central and eastern europe. i believe that improvements are needed at the level of higher education as a whole if we are to maintain and even increase europe's global competitiveness.
in writing. − as the creation of a european higher education area is an important development that could contribute to european integration, i believe that the european union has an important role to play in strengthening this area by supporting the efforts and cooperation of the member states in this regard.
in writing. − universities play a crucial role in the knowledge triangle of education, research and innovation and should be seen as key elements in the sustainable socioeconomic development of europe. the current university system is far from optimal, but the european commission could stimulate the high potential of universities through objective evaluations and country-specific recommendations. i would like to emphasize the measures necessary for students and knowledge and research workers. for these, the following are needed in the future: - a european framework for research careers to facilitate the mobility of researchers; - the expansion of the activities of the european institute of innovation and technology; - the multiplication of marie curie initiatives; - the improvement of the image of technical education. in this respect, the social partners at national and regional level can play an important role as the interaction between higher education and business can provide: - substantial contributions to research; - knowledge transfer; - the development of skills and ideas.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the modernisation of higher education systems in europe because this modernisation should make it easier for university graduates to find a job corresponding to their studies. today, 21% of young people in the eu are unemployed, and most university graduates have difficulty finding a job. i think that member states should invest at least 6% of gdp in education. we call for the inclusion in the 2014-2020 eu budget, under the erdf and the esf, of funding for higher education, which will facilitate investments in university infrastructure and academic staff. i do not support paragraph 5 which calls on member states to support higher education institutions dedicated to traditional national, ethnic or linguistic minorities. i believe that university autonomy is a fundamental concept, respected in any democratic country, and a guarantee of the preservation of the cultural and scientific treasures of any country and of ensuring the premises of development by stimulating higher education, research and innovation. member states must strive to make higher education accessible to as many people as possible, adapt to new challenges by creating new fields of study, reflect labour market needs, take account of scientific and technological developments, and promote the development of new technologies and technologies.
in writing. − the ict sector directly generates 5% of european gdp and has a market value of eur 660 billion annually, making a significant contribution to overall productivity growth. therefore, the full european potential for the development of ict services in the public and private sectors must be fully exploited in order to improve the services of local and regional authorities in areas such as health, education, public procurement, security and social services. however, i believe that the promotion of e-government will also need to be accompanied by a reform of the administration and its relations with the user, in particular by supporting users in completing e-administrative procedures. at the same time, the union and the member states will need to take all measures to include all audiences, including disadvantaged people, in the digital society, in line with the eu 2020 strategy and article 9 of the treaty on the functioning of the eu.
in writing. − the public sector and its relations with society have generated a great deal of analysis and discussion in recent years. increasing demand for public services, budgetary constraints, personnel costs and the new facilities offered by information technology have been challenges generating new concepts: 'online government', 'e-government', 'e-government'. the key element of the concept of 'e-government' is to improve the relationship and smooth the exchange of information between the public sector on the one hand and citizens and business on the other. e-government means providing public services in electronic format to citizens and businesses, a more efficient and cheaper alternative that would allow the government to be closer to citizens and to tailor its services to their requirements. i consider e-government to be one of the important manifestations of the information society, because it involves state institutions, public and private organisations and, above all, the citizen, whom it transforms into an e-citizen, directly, concretely and constructively involved in all areas of political, social, cultural, civic and moral life.
in writing. − i believe that an effective e-government system must ensure a two-way interaction, both an automatic interaction between the administration and citizens, but also businesses, which need the mutual recognition and interoperability of electronic identification, electronic authentication, electronic signature and private key infrastructure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on a competitive digital single market – egovernment as a spearhead, because i strongly believe that egovernment represents an extraordinary tool for european citizens. this is because it provides great opportunities for the modernisation of public administrations by increasing transparency and accountability, reducing the costs of public services, and because it is an important instrument to overcome the digital divide existing among the member states, in keeping with the goals of the digital agenda for europe. the report highlights the importance of the development of tools – such as esignature, eprocurement and einvoicing – as necessary services that not only have the potential to drastically cut administrative costs and burdens for the citizens, but also to act as mechanisms to increase the efficiency and speed of bureaucratic and administrative procedures, which are often too slow and complex. egovernment truly is a spearhead, not only for a ‘competitive digital single market’, but for the innovation of the european society as a whole.
in writing. − the contribution of information and communication technology to the daily lives of our citizens, both socially, culturally and economically, can bring considerable benefits to the european union. however, to have a competitive digital single market, we need to meet a number of technical and legal preconditions to strengthen egovernment services in europe. there is a need to promote cross-border interoperability, the implementation of 'one-stop-shop' approaches and the use of electronic identification and payment systems throughout the union. at the same time, i believe that this interoperability must be supported by effective e-identity management and by stimulating innovation in e-government.
in writing. − the report 'a competitive digital single market - egovernment, a spearhead' recognises the important contribution of the communications and information technology (ict) sector to the eu's industrial policy, competitiveness and trade balance. e-government provides european citizens with more opportunities and contributes to the reform and modernisation of public administration. the implementation of egovernment services is the responsibility of the member states. in addition to european funding contributing to the eu-wide interoperability of egovernment services, member states should make available the financial, technical and human resources necessary for the implementation of high-impact egovernment services. member states are encouraged to adopt the best combination of new technologies, open specifications, innovative architectures to ensure efficient, effective, secure and interoperable cross-border egovernment services at all levels. the development of e-government services at eu and national level should be based on cooperation between public administrations, fully respecting the principles underpinning european public services: respect for subsidiarity and proportionality, user-centricity, respect for confidentiality and multi-channel distribution, inclusiveness and accessibility, security, multilingualism, administrative simplification, transparency, information retention, openness, re-use, technological neutrality and adaptability, effectiveness and efficiency.
in writing. − i find the situation in mali of great concern. the recent wave of arrests of political leaders, as well as the dire humanitarian situation of more than 300 000 refugees and displaced persons, requires strong condemnation. i voted for this resolution, and i join the international condemnation of the military coup and the suspension of the country’s republican institutions. i believe that sending an eu election observation mission to monitor the upcoming elections would constitute a first step towards political stability in the country. i also hope that the eu will remain in close contact with the new interim authorities in mali in order to define concrete assistance in all the different fields where it is needed.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the situation in mali. i believe that a lasting solution in the region should aim at strengthening state institutions, promoting the active participation of citizens in decision-making and laying the foundation for sustainable and equitable economic development. we underline that the current crisis in mali is rooted in the country's economic and social problems and stress the need to respond urgently to the needs of the population in terms of access to jobs, health, housing and public services, equally for all, with the guarantee of fundamental human rights, including the rights of minorities. i am concerned about the worsening humanitarian and food crisis and call on the commission and the member states to step up and speed up the delivery of humanitarian supplies to people in need. in the absence of such swift action, a major humanitarian crisis could develop, which could also have a negative impact on neighbouring countries. we call on the european union and its member states to support capacity building of the states in the region and to mobilise all available means to protect the population and promote security and development in the region.
in writing. − burma/myanmar has made significant progress over the past year, and i am therefore happy to commend the country's efforts towards democratic change. however, according to the latest report of the un special rapporteur on human rights, there are still serious human rights concerns that remain to be addressed: prisoners release, discrimination against ethnic groups, as well as poverty and development. therefore, i hope that the government of burma/myanmar will continue to take an active approach to protecting human rights and implementing reforms. in this respect, i am in favour of the one-year suspension of the eu restrictive measures currently in place against burma, a measure which i believe will keep the pressure on the burmese government to continue reforms, while also making a strong positive statement that genuine reforms will be rewarded.
in writing. − i consider the rapporteur's proposals for gender databases to be developed during the evaluation or launch phases of projects to be beneficial. a better understanding of the gender dimension of climate change is essential to find the best solutions for policies to combat climate change, as well as for the inclusion of women in european climate diplomacy, with a minimum of 40% of women in the respective delegations.
in writing. by voting in favour of this report, i underline the importance of gender mainstreaming in the effective fight against climate change, because of the differentiated roles between men and women. the many discriminations they suffer make them more vulnerable to this phenomenon, which also increases inequality. i voted in favour of this report because it also strongly encourages a gender-based approach and greater participation of women in policy-making on development, human rights and climate change.
in writing. - i voted in favour of paragraphs 30 and 41 and recital k because i fully support women's right to family planning, reproductive health insurance and contraceptive methods. the state of my origin has for decades promoted an absurd policy against these rights, and this policy has deeply marked romanian society, something that must never be repeated.
in writing. − i voted for the report on women and climate change because including gender issues in the context of the fight against climate change provides an opportunity for it to become stronger, fairer and more effective. i stress the need for concrete steps towards the inclusion of more women at all levels of decision-making. i support the introduction of a mandatory 40% quota for women's representation in the delegations for the climate change negotiations. we call on the commission and the member states to propose climate change mitigation programmes, including gender equality, to improve women's well-being, in particular in terms of access to information and services, natural resources and sustainable energy. we invite the commission and the member states to support the development of renewable energy sources in developing countries through technology and knowledge exchange, ensuring the balanced participation of women, with the aim of contributing simultaneously to both equal opportunities and climate change mitigation. women must be encouraged to train and pursue careers in the technology and science sectors, the environment sector, the energy sector, as this can provide women with secure jobs, a stable future and increase their involvement in climate change policy-making.
in writing. − biodiversity provides us with food and water, shelter and medicine, reduces the consequences of natural disasters and epidemics, regulates the climate and provides vital services that support the economy. if we lose biodiversity, we risk losing wealth and jobs and we risk our future. biodiversity loss is occurring at an unprecedented scale (100 to 1000 times the natural rate of species extinction), making it the most serious threat to the environment, alongside climate change. i believe that there is a need for better cooperation at european level in the field of the diversity of animal and plant genetic resources in order to preserve them and improve their ability to adapt to climate change. it is also necessary for member states and the european commission to support european citizens' initiatives to protect biodiversity and their engagement through the civic service for biodiversity and eco-volunteering, with a view to identifying models and good practices that can be subsequently applied at european level, and the need to carry out information and awareness-raising campaigns on biodiversity for all ages and social groups.
in writing. − recent studies have shown a steady loss of biodiversity in the european union, leading to devastating economic costs for society, costs that have not been sufficiently taken into account in economic and other eu policies. a more efficient and coordinated use of funds provided by cohesion policy instruments, the framework programme for research and development, the life+ programme and the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd) for projects related to environmental, biodiversity and climate protection is needed in the future, including, where appropriate, through the provision of additional technical assistance.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the european biodiversity strategy because i did not see the point of the article raising the issue of hunting in the danube delta on the assumption that it would have a negative impact on biodiversity. the danube delta is a biosphere reserve where hunting of protected species is prohibited anyway. i believe that if the requirements of natura 2000, in particular the hunting practices which require member states to avoid damage to natural habitats and species habitats and the birds directive on the principles of rational use, are respected, the danger of a negative impact would be removed. for these reasons, although i consider the report an important step towards achieving the targets of the eu biodiversity strategy 2020, i could not vote in favour.
in writing. - i voted against parts of paragraphs 28, 58, 61, 70 because the ideas contained in these parts of the text are unrealistic and attempt to position agriculture as responsible for the reduction of biodiversity. the measures proposed or suggested in these paragraphs are incompatible with the desirability of developing agriculture as a pillar of food security. agriculture can make an important contribution to biodiversity conservation, but policies in this area must be chosen with particular regard to long-term food security.
in writing. − i voted for the report on an eu biodiversity strategy for 2020 because the environment and natural resources are a fundamental good for human well-being. i stress the importance of integrating the protection and conservation of biodiversity into the development, implementation and financing of all other european policies - including energy, industry, transport, tourism, research and innovation - to make eu sectoral and budgetary policies more coherent. i believe that member states should cooperate and coordinate their efforts to ensure a more efficient use of natural resources and to avoid losses in terms of biodiversity and ecosystem services in rural and urban areas. i urge member states to design forestry policies that take full account of the importance of forests in protecting biodiversity, preventing soil erosion, sequestering carbon, purifying air and maintaining the water cycle. the increasing deterioration of critical habitats such as wetlands should be treated as a priority and addressed through urgent measures that truly correspond to the special protection status that the eu accords them.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the review of the sixth environmental action programme and setting priorities for the seventh environmental action programme - a better environment for a better life. a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are essential preconditions for ensuring the quality of life and maintaining the stability of ecosystems. for environmental policies to succeed, i stress the importance of involving and informing citizens about them. i call for increased efforts in this regard in the next action programme, bearing in mind that a better environment for a better life cannot be created unilaterally by the institutions without the support of society as a whole. i believe that the seventh environment action programme should reflect binding targets in the field of energy efficiency and/or energy savings, as these will contribute to combating global warming and protecting the environment. we call on member states to fully implement water legislation to ensure compliance with the water framework directive and the flood risk assessment and management directive. we call on the member states to take measures to restore the natural river banks and to reforest adjacent areas.
in writing. – the first step towards solving a problem is to admit that there is a problem. and europe is confronted with a multitude of problems. internally it is affected by the largest and deepest crisis since the creation of the eu. further integration has been slowed down considerably and the spectre of renationalising common policies is stronger and stronger. moreover, the ‘cure’ through severe austerity has created growing popular discontent, manifested in social and political instability. it also undermined solidarity among members. all that at a time when, externally, other power centres have begun to question europe’s centrality in the international system. challenges are accumulating around europe and all we do is slash our defence budgets, accelerating a haemorrhage of power in favour of our competitors, at a time when the us is re-orienting itself towards asia and the pacific. the sombreness of the picture should not dishearten us even further, but determine a resolution to turn the tables and change course upwards again. for that, ‘austerity’ – which has reached its limits – should give way to ‘growth’ and i salute our leaders’ decision to make ‘growth’ their top priority.
in writing. austerity as a way out of the economic crisis was not and is not a viable solution. austerity has produced two deplorable results: impoverishing the population and destroying any hope for a better future for the young. political events in recent weeks have shown that the french, romanians and british no longer believe in the measures imposed by right-wing governments. youth unemployment is rising, which is why we need to invest in job creation and economic recovery. this era of austerity must end today.
in writing. every year, on 9 may, europeans celebrate europe day. more than half a century after robert schuman's declaration, europe's citizens are united and promote the same values that have ensured peace and prosperity for the eu states. today, the eu, like other regions and countries of the world, is facing a serious economic and social crisis. recent eurostat statistics show that in march 2012, 25.7 million eu citizens were unemployed, up by 2.1 million from march 2011. in some member states, the unemployment rate has reached alarming levels (spain 24%, greece 21%), with young people being the category most affected by unemployment. the future of the eu rests on the young europeans, and it is our duty to provide them with a proper education and the chance to contribute to the development of society, at least as much as previous generations. the future of the eu must be based on solidarity, on strengthening the european social model, on creating the conditions for economic growth, on the completion of the single market and, above all, on job creation in europe. the eu needs to invest in transport, energy, agriculture, education, health and, above all, research and innovation to ensure its international competitiveness.
in writing. today, 9 may, in the ep plenary we are talking about the future of europe. in the elections that have taken place in the eu member states over the last year, citizens have voted for change. if we analyze the ideological meaning of this change, we see how in france the right was replaced by the left, and in spain it was the other way around. what do winners have in common? the more or less populist promises to end austerity policies and to meet the expectations of those who want to maintain the european welfare state that takes care of everyone. the question now is whether, after the crisis, we can return to the european welfare state of the late 20th century. the eu can no longer exist as just an economic union and a single market as albion wants, it can no longer stand as just a 20th century intergovernmental union of nation states. it's going to fall apart. the eu must become a federal europe, a europe of regions and communities, with clear powers for its institutions in brussels, balanced by clear accountability for the eurocrats to the 500 million european citizens. and the undisputed democratic deficit of today's european construction can only be addressed by strengthening the role of the ep.
i congratulate mrs niebler and the shadow rapporteurs on the report they have worked on and on the negotiations with the council on the basis of the mandate given by the itre commission. the regulations of 2007 and 2009 and, in particular, this regulation, aim at consumer protection and flexibility for roaming providers by introducing euro-tariffs for voice, sms and data roaming. however, today there is no internal telecommunications market as long as there are significant differences between national prices and roaming prices. the digital agenda's objective 101 is to achieve convergence between domestic and roaming charges by 2015. the ultimate objective should therefore be to eliminate the difference between national and roaming tariffs, thereby establishing an internal market for mobile communications services. i have argued in my amendments that users living in border regions should not be charged excessively high prices for accidental roaming. roaming providers should take reasonable measures to protect customers against the charging of roaming charges when they are in the territory of their member state. national regulatory authorities should also take appropriate measures to mitigate those problems. the sale of regulated roaming services separately from domestic mobile communications services is an intermediate measure necessary to increase competition and to lower roaming charges for customers, with a view to achieving an internal market for mobile communications services in which there is ultimately no difference between domestic and roaming charges. we call for the regulation to be revised in 2016 to ensure adequate consumer protection if convergence between domestic and roaming charges is not achieved by then.
madam president, the common market and freedom of movement are some of the cornerstones of the construction of europe and yet the citizens of europe have to pay an extra fee for communicating with each other when travelling within the eu, which i believe is unacceptable. the roaming regulation in this negotiated form achieves some quite positive results in terms of reduced price caps for voice calls, data services and sms. however, the way to a european single market for mobile communication, which has to be our ultimate goal, is still far from being reached. in my view the extra costs for roaming are not justified by any technical reasons. they create fake and unjust commercial borders; they represent an actual impediment to the free competition among network operators that would lead to better services, lower prices, more consumption and more growth in the european union. the biggest improvement that this new regulation will bring in terms of benefits for the european citizen is the significant cut in the price of data services. this was a top priority for the s&d group and i am pleased that such an important point has been agreed upon. however, i am quite disappointed that not enough attention has been given to the net neutrality issue as i believe that customers should be allowed to access any internet services from their phones without discrimination. the overall outcome of the negotiations with the council is satisfactory. however, i would like to remind you that this parliament should push for the creation of a single market for telecommunications and that the eu must become a roaming free area.
first, let me give my colleague niebler a little credit. indeed, this conversation should have been had much earlier. but it's good that we're doing it now. the last price cap for roaming services was in july 2009 and since then, technological developments have been significant. and roaming has gone unnoticed and we're still paying the same prices in 2012. it's often, frankly, much cheaper to take a taxi and get to a destination than to look on the internet, on a normal map, for the destination, whether it's a hotel or other destinations. data transfer is playing an increasingly important role in communication, whether we're talking about business or private. that is why i think that this price limitation should have come earlier, it is good that it is coming now and i think that through these measures taken at european level, we can bring about a standardization in terms of communication systems at european level in the 27 states.
in writing. the regulation of roaming charges is one of the essential elements of the completion of the single market for electronic communications. this proposal for a regulation will help to improve the welfare of mobile users in terms of price, choice, quality and safety. at present, excessive roaming prices and reduced use of roaming services within the eu due to high levels of tariffs are not serving either the european consumer or the european economy. for these reasons, i welcome the introduction of a retail price cap for mobile data services for the first time. the new regulation will also extend the obligation for mobile telecommunications companies to notify their own users when their roaming bill exceeds eur 50 and also to inform users about the price of the roaming services offered.
in writing. i consider the agreement on the reduction of roaming charges within the eu to be optimal in the context of the structural problems generated by roaming services. thus, as from 1 july 2012, the charges for calls made in a member state other than the country of origin may not exceed 29 cents per minute and those for incoming calls may not exceed 8 cents per minute. limiting the impact of high roaming charges requires a shift from a monopoly held by mobile operators to sustainable competition designed to encourage investment and job creation. this will enable users to choose their mobile operator for the period of their stay abroad. i would like to draw attention to the situation of customers living in border regions who pay excessively high bills due to accidental roaming. to this end, it is necessary for roaming and mobile providers to warn users immediately of the roaming of their phone. freedom of movement within the european union must be coupled with the freedom to communicate at affordable rates throughout europe.
in writing. every week, new information emerges about people trying to cross the mediterranean illegally to enter europe. beyond the news is often a tragic reality: migrants often find themselves in extreme situations, trying to escape the crisis or violence in their home countries. and attempting to cross the sea illegally is often very dangerous. at the same time, these considerable migratory flows represent a very important pressure for the italian authorities. as i said in the debate on greece at the previous plenary session, no member state can cope with such situations on its own. to identify a solution and respond appropriately to emergencies, solidarity and cooperation are needed from all the union states, mainly those in the region, but also from all the european courts responsible. i am thinking in particular of frontex, which must be more involved in the efforts to secure europe's borders. the eu's external relations are also important for the eu's external relations, as the eu's external relations are also important for the eu's external relations.
in writing. the situation in lampedusa is emblematic in describing the problems facing the common european asylum system as a whole. at the moment, there are serious concerns about the treatment of migrants, especially those seeking asylum in the european union, and this is partly because european legislation in this area and the resources invested in managing immigration are not up to the challenge. this is why the european legislation on migration and asylum needs to be modernised as quickly as possible, and it is of particular importance that the negotiations with the council on the asylum package are completed as soon as possible. the commission should also take into account the impact of the union's policy on the migration situation in the member states and the union's policy on migration. at the same time, the management of external borders needs to be improved to prevent illegal immigration, and to this end it is vital that a new mechanism for assessing and monitoring the application of the schengen acquis is adopted.
the major political transformation in europe's neighbourhood has indeed opened the way to democracy in the southern mediterranean, but it has also upended the entire economic system in these countries. the wave of hope now risks being caught in the vicious circle of poverty. social unrest amplifies economic decline and, by implication, increases unemployment, especially among young people and women. according to estimates by the organization for european cooperation and development, 25 million new jobs will be needed over the next decade just to maintain current employment levels. based on the experience of the transition of the eastern european states, i think that's a very difficult goal to achieve. the arab spring was about achieving democratic freedoms and a better life for its citizens. it is in the european union's direct interest to support these countries through a broad interregional commitment to update the euro-mediterranean free trade area project. the implementation of the trade and investment facilitation mechanism proposed in the euro-mediterranean trade roadmap and the establishment of new rules of origin in the pan-euro-med convention can also make a significant contribution to stimulating trade, especially as the countries of the area will no longer have the status of members of the generalised system of preferences.
the european union must support reforms in the arab states, including through its trade policy. it's our duty. over one third of the working population in the southern mediterranean countries is employed in agriculture. trade with the european union is therefore expected to increase. however, there are a number of rules to be followed. we must insist on aligning these countries with the european union's standards for food quality and safety, environmental protection and quality of animal life, in accordance with the principle of reciprocity. european farmers are obliged to respect the highest standards in the world in this respect. any imports must meet the same standards before they reach european consumers. so trade that is good for both sides, yes, trade that is bad for our farmers, no.
in writing. events in the mediterranean have led to a rethinking of relations with the eu's neighbours. the european union has a leading role in promoting respect for human rights, pluralism, the rule of law and social justice in the southern mediterranean through enhanced political and trade cooperation with the area. the unequal distribution of income, the lack of social and economic reforms, the precariousness of education systems and jobs were some of the main causes of revolutions in the arab world. the economic development and regional integration of these countries in trade terms requires the support of international financial institutions. an important step in this direction is the decision to extend the mandate of the european bank for reconstruction and development to participate in the process of financial assistance for the southern and eastern mediterranean. i would like to call in this context for urgent ratification by the eu member states of the amendments to the ebrd agreement. the bank has the expertise to ensure the transition to a functioning democracy in the countries of the region.
the current interpretation of existing prohibitions in european patent law does not provide the necessary legal certainty and is not sufficiently clear, as patents are granted for products obtained by conventional methods. according to information published by the north patterns for seeds coalition, for example, about 140 plant patents were granted in 2011, 12 of which were for plants obtained by conventional methods. also in 2011, 65 patents were granted in zootechnics, of which at least 10 were for conventional methods: sex selection, assisted selection, etc. obviously, we're dealing with a legal matter that's still unresolved. the european parliament must send a strong signal. no one owns and can own nature. i object to the postponement of the vote proposed by some colleagues, the vote must take place as soon as possible.
finally, romania, through the new government, is on the right path, the path to economic recovery, to a government closer to the people, a transparent government, which will correct many of the mistakes made by the old government. the ponta government represents a real hope for romania, a way out of poverty and unemployment for romanian citizens, because it is a government that wants to ensure sustainable economic growth and an increase in living standards. from now on, government initiatives and measures will be based on political, social and economic dialogue. civil society will no longer be left on the sidelines, but will be consulted on the policies to be implemented. and in this regard, i am very pleased that the health reform will be achieved through a broad consultation of citizens, of all professional organisations and of civil society as a whole. this is in stark contrast to the approach of the old government, which generated major socio-political tensions with the failed health bill proposed in december 2011. i hope the new government will enjoy your support to be able to restore the romanians the dignity of living in their country and in europe.
mr. president, i have to go. there has been a change of government in romania. following the adoption of the motion of no confidence by the opposition parties, a social democratic politician was able to form a government. the main topic of the motion of no confidence was the establishment of an independent hungarian-language medical university guaranteed by law. so the center-right cabinet failed because it guaranteed the legal rights of a national minority. the new government's programme, in a unique way since the change of regime, does not mention the hungarian minority. this government refuses to acknowledge the existence of our community of 1.5 million. all these trends are extremely negative in a context where the effects of the economic crisis are also strongly felt by romanian citizens. i strongly warn the romanian political class, especially the leaders of the parties that have now come to power, that in this crisis period, attacks against the hungarian minority are being used to try to divert attention from the country's problems.
every year, on europe day, we remember the beginning of the common construction of the european project. this year we can speak with more hope and confidence about a new beginning. the wave of political change in recent weeks is a signal that europeans are no longer accepting austerity. austerity has produced two major results: poverty and hopelessness. this era must end. europe needs growth strategies, to redress the injustices of recent years, positive measures to create jobs and support vulnerable groups. while many europeans are suffering and facing enormous daily hardships, today we can speak of a reborn faith in a more just future, built by leaders who respect their citizens and make decisions in their favour.
today, the president of the european parliament, martin schulz, spoke of a quiet revolution that began 60 years ago, he spoke of a europe without walls and a europe without wars. if there is one invention that has helped more people to understand each other, to understand and share values, to understand and understand the differences between people, to know each other better, that invention is called the internet. we will vote in the next session in parliament on the acta agreement. i ask my colleagues from the epp and, in particular, my romanian colleagues in the european parliament from the liberal democratic party, to say publicly whether they will vote for the acta agreement or whether they will vote against this agreement because it is about the very essence of the european union, the values in which we believe and which we support.
europe day is both a celebration and a great opportunity to reflect on the steps we still have to take to create an ever-deeper union among the peoples of europe, in which decisions are taken in full respect of the principle of transparency and as close as possible to the citizens. today we must look to the future. we have a duty not only to inculcate in young people the same ideals that robert schuman had in the 1950s, but above all to ensure that they are able to contribute to the development of the society in which they live, at least as much as previous generations. i believe we have an obligation to invest in education, health, research and innovation and, above all, in the industrial policy of the european union. only in this way will we be able to help young people to become more competent, more enterprising and to find decent, secure and well-paid work, at the level of each one's training.
we are celebrating europe day today, as it has been said here, in a european union torn between hope and disappointment. in this context, the election of françois hollande as president of france on sunday and the inauguration of the social democrat leader victor ponta as prime minister of romania on monday are important steps towards the progressive left taking responsibility for shaping the future of the european project. these changes also restore hope and confidence in a europe in crisis, where governments are changing under the pressure of popular discontent, where poverty is spreading and where the demons of the past - xenophobia, anti-semitism, extremism, nationalism and protectionism - are re-emerging. greece is only a revealer of the european failure which has its origin in the reduction of the continental construction to the economic dimension. i hope that the new trends in political regroupment will trigger a process of rethinking and deepening the european project, including by defending democracy, reaffirming the social model and reducing the gaps between member states.
regional aviation is an important factor in ensuring the mobility of citizens. the role of regional airports is vital for the territorial cohesion and economic and social development of regions, especially those without other modes of transport. better connectivity and efficient intermodal mobility can make a significant contribution to improving access to regions and to developing the economy and tourism in these regions. unfortunately, regional airports located far from urban centres are often inadequately connected to the ground transport network. we encourage local and regional authorities to present sustainable mobility plans that provide for an efficient logistics chain. we propose an exchange of good practices on links between regional airports and urban centres. we call on the commission to take a balanced approach to future revisions of the guidelines to ensure a socially and economically viable development of regional air services, taking into account the development of the infrastructure necessary to ensure intermodality.
the bradbourn report is welcome, for at least the following reasons: first, the request to the commission to review the directive which lowered the threshold for which an airport can receive state aid. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 20 june 2009 and entered into force on 1 january 2010. the level to which state aid can be granted under a simplified scheme must therefore be re-examined. secondly, the report's provisions on the 'one piece' policy and airport security are also important. as regards the inclusion of more regional airports in the trans-european transport network, this could bring greater mobility and therefore greater economic growth for many regions. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement signed with ryanair on the same day. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 29 june 2014 and entered into force on 1 january 2014.
in writing. air transport plays a key role in the economic growth of regions and the creation of new jobs, especially when it comes to the less developed regions, those on the external borders of the european union and the outermost regions. we all recognise the particular importance of these airports, both economically, socially and environmentally, but the real problem arises when it comes to obtaining funding. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams in 2004 was not signed and that the agreement was concluded on the basis of the same principles as the one concluded between ryanair and ams in 2005. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams in 2004 and 2005 was signed on the same date.
the reporter. − i am the rapporteur for the decentralised agencies of the european union for 2010 and for the public-private partnership enterprises. 24 centralised agencies and 7 public-private partnership enterprises are subject to the discharge procedure. for three agencies, i propose to postpone discharge, mainly for reasons related to conflicts of interest and public procurement. a few words about the importance of conflicts of interest: conflicts between public tasks and the private interests of those in public office have increased through the collapse of the barriers between the public and private sectors, through public-private partnerships, through the exchange of personnel between the two sectors. this has created grey areas and potential conflicts of interest for those in public office. a conflict of interest arises when a public official has to make decisions that may affect his private interests. if not identified and managed properly, conflicts of interest can distort the allocation of public resources, human resources policy, lead to waste of public money and to a decline in citizens' trust in european public institutions. conflicts of interest should therefore be analysed and sanctioned in the course of the discharge procedure. it is our role to look at conflicts of interest when we review and decide on the discharge of all the european institutions. i recommend that you postpone the discharge to the european food safety authority. it's an agency involved in the licensing of the food and drink that we consume every day. our health also depends on the decisions of this authority. that's why the conflicts of interest in this agency, mainly in the board, in the board, are worrying. there are many examples that have been made public. i'll give you just one very recent one: diana banati, who on may 8th, two days ago, joined an institute funded by the food industry and, at the request of the authority, resigned as director and board member. there are other cases on the board of the food safety authority, for example, like the ones in the expert groups. in addition, the costs of board member meetings in 2010 were over eur 6 000 per person per meeting, the highest cost among all agencies. the fda is the second agency i'm proposing to delay discharge. and there are conflicts of interest issues, and this agency is extremely important in the application process, in the approval process, in the authorization process for the drugs that we use, that come into the market. the agency has drawn up a plan to avoid, to prevent conflicts of interest, but what i propose to parliament is to see how this plan is applied, because application, implementation is the key issue. if it's applied correctly, of course, in the fall, our decision may be different. a third agency is the environment agency, where we've seen problems with public procurement, with spending public money. for example, a green façade that lasted only five months, costing around €300,000, was done without a tender and without being part of the agency's work and investment plan. there are also other issues of public procurement and conflicts of interest, even of the person, the executive director of this agency. the postponement of discharge is not against the agencies, but on the contrary it supports them in solving their problems, in solving them together, and it is a strong signal to the member states and the commission for the proposals they make in the boards of these agencies.
rap is the opinion of tran. - on behalf of mrs ayala sender, who is the rapporteur for the tran opinion and who is not here today, i would like to make a few clarifications. as regards ten-t funding, we welcome the mid-term review of the ten-t funds for the period 2007-13. we thought it was an interesting exercise in resource efficiency. the process has been results-oriented and we would like this approach to be applied to other eu policies. in this context, we welcome the commission's new proposal for the multiannual financial framework. as regards road safety, we regret the poor use of road safety funds and would like to see this trend reversed in the coming years. as regards galileo, we welcome the progress made under the egnos and galileo programmes. the launch of the first two satellites in 2012 is a key step in the successful implementation of both programmes. we recall the importance of investment in this sector, which will have beneficial effects on many sectors and policies of the european union, in particular on logistics, sustainable transport and transport safety.
interinstitutional cooperation between parliament and the council is vital in monitoring the implementation of the budget. therefore, any deadlock caused by the council's failure to comply with the requirements issued by parliament, as the decisive authority on discharge, is regrettable and damaging to this process. the decision to postpone the discharge should not be seen as an obstacle to the negotiation process between parliament and the council. the council has also adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners and the immediate release of all political prisoners. the economic and social committee responded promptly to the parliament's comments. however, parliament is closely following olaf and the european ombudsman's investigations into alleged irregularities in the administration of the economic and social committee. the european court of justice has taken steps to optimise its internal workflow by introducing the e-curia application. the european court of auditors has decided to increase the number of posts devoted exclusively to audit tasks by 6%. the pilot project on the outsourcing of audit tasks needs to be closely monitored. the epp group will support the discharge of these institutions.
when we talk about discharge, we automatically talk about the use of european money and the very increased attention we must have to how european money is used. i was rapporteur on the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests and i agree that, especially in times of crisis, but even in times of economic growth, european money must be used with great care. but from here to turning the budget discharge into a stage where the rapporteur can parade around and work on his own image is a very long way. i say that there is a disproportionate political reaction between what is happening in the european agencies and what the rapporteur actually wants. i think that the rapporteur, mrs monica macovei, is only trying to make a name for herself because we have the procedures and the tools to solve problems in time. i think it's a very over-the-top political reaction and mrs. macovei is only trying to create her own image.
i support the position of my rapporteur and colleague, mrs monica macovei, who is certainly one of the best people to deal with the postponement of the discharge for the european environment agency, but also for efsa and the ema. it is a necessary measure to clarify and remedy the identified problematic aspects in their financial management. i am particularly concerned about the existence of conflicts of interest which are a problem both at european level and in the member states, including romania. decisions made in such situations are contrary to the public interest and lead to misuse of taxpayers' money. the over €30,000 granted for a trip that feels like a holiday is a prime example. parliament, which has responsibility for budgetary control, cannot ignore these cases. how else can we expect citizens to trust the european institutions?
rapporteur. − mr president, i will try to answer and to sum up the debate. i would like to start by saying that the work has changed and we must follow these changes. transparency and proper management of conflicts of interest has become vital for both governments and our citizens. secondly, conflicts of interest – i repeat what i said this morning – must be a criterion in the discharge procedure for all the eu institutions. i repeat that in particular for our socialist colleagues. the discharge procedure is the place to evaluate conflicts of interest because, if they are not correctly managed, conflicts of interest can distort the allocation of public resources and human resources policies, and can lead to public funds being wasted. so, yes, this is the place to discuss it. once again we took this opportunity to call on the council, the commission and the member states to revise the way they appoint members of the management boards of the agencies, as well as the directors. i am glad to hear from commissioner šemeta today that this will be taken into account and the policy revised. this will only help the agencies. i believe that the postponement will also help the agencies to finish the clearing, or at least to have in place, in an irreversible way, a structured policy against conflicts of interest. i will not respond to the personal criticism from the socialists. i would just like to say that i have not heard any concrete argument as to why discharge for the three agencies should not be postponed. once again, this is nothing to do with the work of the agencies. this is not going against the agencies. rather, it is to help the agencies, and also to increase people’s trust in the work of the agencies and of parliament, to see that we take it seriously when we carry out the discharge. we do not put stamps on some other reports. finally, i am grateful to all of you for this debate and for the discussion we have had, including those who criticised my proposals. i am very glad that the conflict of interest issue was the subject of such a large debate. i am sure that this will continue.
in writing. the first thing that strikes you, even after just looking at today's agenda, is the ridiculously large number of european agencies. parliament is currently hearing 43 discharge reports from the same number of european institutions. in this period, when the wise use of public money is essential, parliament should turn to a rigorous analysis of the usefulness and necessity of these agencies. the idea of combining cepol and europol, for example, is welcome. i think other similar solutions could be identified. such an analysis is all the more necessary in the light of the extremely serious suspicions about the way public money is spent in these agencies and about possible conflicts of interest. i'm voting to delay the discharge of certain agencies. this measure is not a solution to the problems mentioned, but i believe it can be the starting point for a rigorous analysis of the way agencies operate, their costs and their usefulness, which are too numerous at the level of the european union.
i voted for this report because i support the need to create a functioning transport network in the union. this would make a significant economic contribution and ensure increased flexibility and safety of travel. regional airports and air services are essential both for ensuring free mobility and for the development of the local economy and tourism. in this context, i would stress the importance of overcoming the barriers facing the european aviation sector. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 20 june 2013 and that the agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2013. i would point out the importance of integrating regional airports into the transport network in order to decongest passenger traffic and improve operational efficiency. in romania, efforts are directed towards the efficient use of existing infrastructure and the development of new projects concerning regional airports.
i welcome the new roaming rules, as they will bring tangible benefits to millions of consumers. mobile operators tend to apply regulated maximum tariffs. in romania, prices are too high for the purchasing power of citizens, and we live in an era of mobility. access to information and communication is a necessity, not a luxury. last year, the number of calls made by romanians in roaming fell by 12%. we as meps spend most of our time in belgium or france, but we have telephone numbers from our home country. so this is a problem that affects all of us, which is why, once again, i support the regulations on data transfer. that way, i'll avoid the surprise bills on my way home. i also stress that we need to do more to limit the unwanted effects of involuntary roaming.
i voted in favour of this report because i support the introduction of a provision to determine the law applicable to non-contractual obligations in the rome ii regulation. in this way, the fundamental principle would be supplemented by a predictability clause. both the right to privacy and the rights related to personality are extremely important in a democratic society. that is why i believe it is essential to be able to appeal to justice when people's freedom is violated. at the same time, i believe that cross-border disputes should be settled amicably. this will ensure a proper balance between freedom of expression and privacy. i point out the importance and benefits that improving access to justice could bring in the context of ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market.
i voted for this report because the proposals put forward will enable the union to give concrete support to democratic developments in the southern mediterranean. the intensification of economic and trade relations with the countries of the region plays a very important role. but it must be done with respect for the principle of 'more for more'. i would also ask the eeas to submit as soon as possible the assessment criteria used in this area, in accordance with article 17. i would draw attention to the need to support smes adequately. they should become the main beneficiaries of the investment programmes carried out by the eib and the ebrd. i would like to point out the positive role played by the eu-israel chamber of commerce in developing trade relations. i appreciate that this model should be followed by establishing bilateral chambers of commerce in other countries in the region.
i voted for this resolution because we need legal clarity on essential biological processes. patents are important for protecting intellectual property rights, but also for stimulating research and innovation. at the same time, the legislation in this field provides for a justified exception for plant varieties and animal breeds. it must be maintained and the decisions of the european patent office in the 'broccoli' and 'tomato' cases provide useful elements to this end. on the other hand, last year a patent was granted for yellow melons obtained by traditional cross-breeding methods. i therefore ask the commission to present a detailed analysis of the implications of these decisions in its annual report on patents in the field of biotechnology. i would stress that a uniform framework and similar legal protection must be ensured throughout the european union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending the regulation on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community, given the incompatibility of article 9.5 of the basic anti-dumping regulation with articles 6.10, 9.2 and 18.4 of the wto anti-dumping agreement and article xvi:4 of the wto agreement. given that the proposal is in line with the treaty on the functioning of the european union and respects the principle of proportionality, i consider the amendment to be welcome. the wto agreements contain no legal basis to support the provisions of article 9.5. exporting producers with activities in non-market economy countries should not be required to demonstrate that they meet certain criteria in order to be granted it. however, certain special situations must be taken into account when determining the degree of compatibility of the articles for the imposition of a dumping margin and a single anti-dumping duty. thus, although exporters are legally distinct entities, they sometimes need to be treated as a single entity.
in writing. - dumping must be limited to simple selling practices at low prices as a result of reduced costs or higher productivity. in this respect, the key criterion is not in fact the relationship between the exported product price and its price on the importing country's market, but the relationship between the exported product price and its normal value. thus, a product is considered to be dumped if its export price to the european union is lower than the comparable price, in the ordinary course of trade, for the like product in the exporting country. the application of any anti-dumping duty also requires the presence of a second key element: the material injury suffered by the community industry, whether caused to an industry present in the eu, the threat of injury or the substantial delay in the creation of such an industry. i consider that anti-dumping measures cannot be applied if it is found that it is not in the eu interest to impose them. to this end, all interests at community level as a whole, including those of the community industry, users and consumers, must be taken into account. all interested parties shall be given the opportunity to make their views known.
in writing. − i voted in favour of repealing the regulation on the application of restrictions on imports of certain steel products from the russian federation, as maintaining quantitative limits on these imports is in breach of wto rules, taking into account that the russian federation became a wto member in 2011. i believe that with russia's accession to the wto, trade between russia and the european union will improve significantly and develop in accordance with the existing provisions in the bilateral agreements. the eu will thus benefit from greater access to the russian market, leading to an increase in the number and value of exports. moreover, as a result of the export tax reduction, competitiveness will improve and consumers will benefit. i support the need for closer surveillance and the removal of the other existing barriers to trade between russia and the eu.
in writing. − the bilateral relationship between the european union and the russian federation is based on the fundamental values and principles of democracy, human rights, the rule of law and the market economy, and its legal basis is the partnership and cooperation agreement (pca). the agreement entered into force in 1997 for an initial period of 10 years, automatically renewed annually after 2007. it sets out the main common objectives, the institutional framework for bilateral contracts and calls for activities and dialogue in a number of areas. in addition to the pca provisions, there are a number of sectoral and international agreements and other mechanisms for cooperation. steelmaking and textiles are the main sectors covered by bilateral trade agreements. the latest steel agreement stipulated that it would end if russia became a member of the world trade organisation, which it did on 16 december 2011. in view of the above, i support the rapporteur's position on this draft resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because widening access to eu legislation is an important element in ensuring transparency and communication with citizens. the electronic edition of the official journal of the european union (oj) being considered as the official, authentic, up-to-date and complete version will also result in increased legal certainty. at the same time, this measure will avoid the considerable costs associated with the publication of the printed version of the oj, representing a welcome saving for the community budget. in the current economic context and in the light of the difficulties faced by a number of member states and citizens, it is important that the european institutions eliminate unnecessary or avoidable expenditure by identifying practical ways to save money. the electronic publication of the european union oj is an example that should be followed by other similar measures and initiatives.
in writing. − the official journal of the european union is a daily periodical in all the official eu languages and publishes all eu decisions and legislative proposals, in print and electronic form. the 2007 judgment of the court of justice, which held that legal rights cannot be invoked and obligations cannot be applied on the basis of the electronic version of the oj, leads to suspicions as to the precise content of eu legal acts currently available in the eur-lex database. consulting the printed editions of the official journal is a time-consuming, costly and, not least, rarely used process. i welcome all reforms aimed at increasing legal certainty and reducing the cost of access for citizens and businesses, especially in this period of economic crisis affecting the eu.
in writing. − it can be seen from the events i have attended that i fully encourage the use of modern technologies, especially in view of the rapid pace at which society is developing and the need for eu citizens to be constantly informed about the decisions taken within these institutions. the publication of the official journal in electronic form is a timely proposal that meets the demands of the population, and the delay in such a decision can only be a mistake. i would stress that not only is immediate access to documents important, but also the absence of uncertainty about their content. all those who consult the electronic edition should be assured of the authenticity and veracity of the information. the most important aspect of this proposal, in my view, is to give the same official status to texts published in electronic form as to those which have appeared in print.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the draft council regulation on the electronic publication of the official journal of the european union. the proposal for a regulation provides that electronic publication will be equivalent to the legally required publication of the official journal of the european union (oj). in 2011, the commission adopted the proposal for a regulation to increase legal certainty by broadening access to eu law and allowing everyone to rely on the electronic edition of the oj as the official, authentic, up-to-date and complete version. the proposal also addresses the technical requirements that electronic publishing must meet to be equivalent to compliant publishing and sets out the competences of the publications office of the european union (ojeu) in this area. however, in exceptional and temporary cases of unforeseen interruption of electronic publication, the printed edition will have legal value. i believe that legal certainty should be increased and citizens' access to european union legal acts improved. today, almost everyone only consult the electronic form of eu legislation. consulting the printed editions of the official journal is a time-consuming, costly and rarely used process.
in writing. − regional airports are vital for the eu's territorial cohesion and social and economic development. i believe that they have the potential to attract new business and also offer many opportunities for regional tourism as well as specialised freight transport. an integration of regional airports into the ten-t will create opportunities for private financing in airport infrastructure and encourage member states to invest in integrated land connections with major airports. in order to improve the overall quality of service, certain practices of low-cost airlines such as certain unavoidable charges on the main price of their airline tickets or the imposition of extremely strict rules on the number and size of hand luggage should be regulated.
in writing. − regional air transport plays an important role in the development of eu regions because of its many economic and social benefits, through economic and tourism development, increased mobility of citizens and job creation. regional airports are open gates to regions both within the eu and externally. they improve connectivity and access to eu regions, helping to increase their attractiveness. at the same time, regional airports can help to relieve congestion at busy airports. intermodal transport solutions help to develop transit between airports. the commission and the competent authorities should give priority to existing regional airports. their efficiency and development by improving the necessary infrastructure would also bring short-term benefits in terms of investment costs. the importance of diversifying regional airports lies in increasing passenger safety. the availability of alternative airports in the event of deteriorating weather conditions or in terms of the safety of take-offs and landings must be a priority for airport authorities in the eu.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the bradbourn report, in particular because of the commission's request to simplify the way in which airports with less than 500000 passengers per year can access state aid. they also support the inclusion of a larger number of regional airports in the ten-t network. such a measure can stimulate economic growth in european regions. at the same time, i consider the provision in recital (a) which excludes the application of the proposed measures to regional airports serving mainly a capital city to be at least questionable. these airports must be granted similar conditions, any other situation being discriminatory.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the future of airports and regional air services in the eu, as regional airports contribute to economic development, industrial revitalisation and employment in their regions. regional airports with extensive connectivity to third countries and intra-european traffic and contributing to the multimodal nature of transport in their region, as well as regional airports that can serve to decongest traffic, should be included in the ten-t network planning. we are concerned about the single baggage rule and other restrictions on carry-on baggage imposed by certain airlines. such practices lead to a poor quality of service for passengers, constitute a breach of competition law and a breach of the obligation of transparency regarding the charges applicable to a ticket. we call on the commission to adopt a balanced approach when reviewing the aviation guidelines in order to create the conditions for a socially and economically viable development of regional air services, with a view to developing the infrastructure necessary to ensure intermodality, while ensuring the accessibility of these services to union citizens and taking into account the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge 2010: general budget of the eu, european ombudsman. i welcome the fact that the ombudsman has set out key performance indicators in the 2010 action plan, as well as a central scoreboard which allows, on the basis of a system of benchmarks, to measure the ombudsman's work. the annual report on the ombudsman's activities in 2011 should contain a chapter on the measures taken on the basis of the european parliament's discharge resolution and a comprehensive table of all the human resources available to the european ombudsman, broken down by category, grade, sex, participation in training courses and nationality. i stress the importance of further increasing the number and proportion of inquiries completed in less than one year, and increasing the number and proportion of cases for which a decision on admissibility is to be taken within one month. these measures will help to increase the trust of european citizens in the european ombudsman. welcomes the audit carried out by the internal audit service in 2010, which took into account the comments made in 2009 and concluded that the management and control system is effective, subject to the implementation of the agreed measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the discharge for the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section ix european data protection supervisor. i welcome the fact that, on the basis of its audit work, the court of auditors estimates that, overall, the payments for administrative and other expenditure of the institutions and bodies for 2010 were free from material error, the error rate in the 'administrative expenditure' sector being estimated at 0,4%. i also welcome the fact that the european data protection supervisor corrected in 2010 and 2011 the errors mentioned in the 2009 insurance declaration and implemented the tools that contribute to improving the management of compensation. due to the profound changes in the way staff are organised in 2010, we request information on the results of the new organisation chart. in this respect, the european data protection supervisor should report in its annual activity report on the implementation of parliament's recommendations. we request that the 2011 annual activity report also contains a comprehensive table of all human resources available to the european data protection supervisor, broken down by category, grade, gender, participation in training courses and nationality.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report ‘2010 discharge: performance, financial management and control of eu agencies’, despite amendments which partially watered down the criticism in my report, in particular the one referring to the way the european court of auditors fulfilled its duties as external auditing body for the agencies. in my view, agencies need to reduce their running costs and follow a zero-based budgeting approach when drawing up their budgets: each agency budget must be based on its real current needs and not on its needs established years ago. it is also time for the commission to carry out an evaluation in order to detect occurrences of unnecessary or overlapping activities and to analyse the merger of some of the agencies. eu agencies should publish on their websites the lists of all contracts awarded over the last three years as well as the list of the management board members together with their declaration of interests and curriculum vitae. the same should be done for all persons in management positions in the agencies and for all experts and scientific guests. conflicts of interest have proved to be a serious concern in several agencies.
in writing. − i voted to grant discharge to the european aviation safety agency (easa) for the financial year 2010 as the agency plays an important role in establishing and maintaining a high and uniform level of civil aviation safety in europe. in 2010, the agency had eur 34 200 000 from the european union budget. the agency's budget was increased by 61% between 2007 and 2010, from eur 85 200 000 to eur 137 200 000, and its staff increased from 333 to 524. we regret that the court of auditors found irregularities in the recruitment and procurement procedures. we call on the commission to ensure that the agency properly applies union regulations and stress the importance of transparency in procurement and recruitment procedures. the court of auditors also stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the annual accounts of the european aviation safety agency for the financial year 2010, and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions.
in writing. − the report on the 2010 discharge for the european environment agency provided for postponement of the discharge. i certainly voted for the postponement of the discharge, which i proposed as rapporteur. i have serious concerns towards this agency with regards to conflict of interest, public procurement, transparency and the way it spends the eu taxpayers' money. in 2010, the agency built a green façade that lasted only 5 months but cost more than 294 000 euro and yet no public tender was made. the agency will also spend 250 000 eur for media monitoring in the next 4 years. this is excessive, unjustified and disregards the taxpayers' money. conflicts of interest are a major problem in the agency. in 2010, while the eea executive director was a member of the international board of directors of earthwatch, 29 staff members of the agency, including the executive director, went for up to 10 days of research on different biodiversity projects in the caribbean or mediterranean managed by earthwatch to whom the agency paid a total of eur 33 791,28. moreover, worldwatch institute europe used the eea premises for its own activities without paying any rent.
in writing. − the report on the 2010 discharge for the european food safety authority provided for postponement of the discharge. i certainly voted in favour of this report, as rapporteur and the one who proposed the postponement of the discharge. the costs of the agency's management board are excessive although it is composed of only 15 members. in 2010, each meeting cost on average 92 630 euro, which represents an amount of 6 175 euro per member. the decisions of the agency are repeatedly challenged over cases of conflict of interest involving members of the management board and members of the experts' panels which come from or go to the food industry, or even are in both places at the same time. for instance, in september 2010 the chair of the management board was reported to be a member of the board of directors of the international life science institute (ilsi) - europe, a food lobby group, from where she stepped down in october 2010, only to accept a professional position at ilsi on 8 may 2012. a thorough screening of the declarations of interest submitted by the agency's staff, experts and members of the management board must be undertaken.
in writing. - i voted to postpone the discharge for the european environment agency, the european medicines agency and the european food safety authority, following the alarm signals regarding possible conflicts of interest and, in particular, the excessive expenditure attributed to them. the delay in the discharge is not a solution to these problems, but i believe it can be the starting point for a rigorous analysis of the way these agencies, and the other agencies, which are very numerous at european union level, operate, their costs and their usefulness.
in writing. − the report on the 2010 discharge for the european medicines agency provided for postponement of the discharge. i certainly voted in favour of this report as rapporteur and the one who proposed the postponement of the discharge. during the 2009 discharge procedure, the european parliament requested a multi-annual procurement plan from ema, which has not yet been adopted. moreover, the management board refused a new payment system for the agency, hence the management board accepts and takes direct responsibility for very important risks, such as non-compliance with legislative requirements, the potential financial impact of the current remuneration system as well as reputation. serious weaknesses in terms of conflict of interests also remain. its approach on the scrutiny of declarations of interest is based on trust rather than on verification of the experts' declaration of interest published by the relevant national agencies. a genuine mechanism enabling proper scrutiny of the declarations of interest recently adopted by the agency must be implemented and show concrete results. the cv of its experts should be made available on its website. consumers and at the same time taxpayers should be aware of who, how and why drugs are recommended and used by citizens.
in writing. − the european maritime safety agency (emsa) provides technical assistance and support to the european union and its member states in the development and implementation of eu legislation on maritime safety, pollution from shipping and maritime security. its responsibilities also include oil spill prevention and response, vessel monitoring, and long-range vessel identification and tracking. in view of the new tasks conferred on the agency by the amendment of regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 establishing the agency, we ask the commission to increase the resources allocated to it. we call on the agency to ensure sound management of resources for the proper fulfilment of its new tasks under that regulation. we draw the agency's attention to the european parliament's resolution of may 2011 on the 2009 discharge for the performance, financial management and control of eu agencies and ask the agency to comply with the recommendations of this resolution. in the resolution, parliament called on the agency to: draw up a gantt chart as part of the programming for each of its operational activities; compare operations carried out in the year under discharge with those carried out in the previous year; improve planning and monitoring with a view to reducing the number of budgetary transfers; and apply public procurement procedures correctly.
in writing. - i voted for the discharge for the european agency for network and information security (enisa). the agency's mission is to ensure a high level of information and data security in the eu by supporting national authorities and eu institutions as an expert on information and data security. the agency also acts as a forum for the exchange of good practice, facilitating contacts between the eu institutions, national authorities and european ict businesses. the court of auditors stated that it had obtained reasonable assurances as to the reliability of the agency's annual accounts for the financial year 2010 and the legality and regularity of the underlying transactions. we welcome the fact that the agency has improved its transparency both in budget estimates and in the allocation of project responsibilities and has strengthened its procurement authorisation procedure at the level of financing decisions and the work programme. given the importance of the agency, the proposed amendment to the regulation establishing enisa, which gives new tasks to the agency, and the opinions of the court of auditors in previous years, we ask the agency to allocate the main share of both staff and expenditure to actions specific to information and data security.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the budget of the european railway agency for the financial year 2010. the agency contributes to the integration of european rail systems by enhancing rail transport safety and ensuring the possibility of non-stop crossing of eu member states' borders. in collaboration with the railway sector, national authorities, eu institutions and other bodies, the agency works to develop common and economically viable technical standards and safety measures and objectives. the agency also issues reports on railway safety in the eu and coordinates efforts to develop uniform signalling rules across europe. in the context of the financial crisis, optimising the use of budgetary resources is very important. we urge the commission and the agency to analyse and establish the actual budgetary needs for the fulfilment of all the agency's tasks. it is recalled that the agency has already carried over substantial funds from the financial years 2008 and 2009 to the following year. we consider that these serious breaches of the budgetary principle of annuality cannot be accepted in the future and that, in the event of a further breach of that budgetary principle, the next time discharge should be refused. in this regard, we request the agency to take the necessary corrective measures without delay.
in writing. − the financial crisis facing the european union requires special measures to ensure adequate protection of the financial interests of the union. i believe that a more rigorous implementation of fiscal policy has the potential to bring europe out of the crisis, in particular by reducing the size of the eu's underground economy, estimated at around one fifth of official gdp. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report to acknowledge the need to consolidate the fight against fraud, corruption, and economic crime. in april, the european parliament's special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering held its constitutive meeting; this is a good step forward, but its results will depend on finding concrete examples to argue for changes in law and practice. many challenges remain. member states should be made more accountable for the amount in irregularities that remain to be recovered; the commission and the member states should apply uniform systems of procurement, define and implement clear conditions for participation in public procurement, as well as transparency in criteria and decision-making on public procurement. we also need one-stop transparency: we need a single website that publishes all the beneficiaries of eu funds on the basis of standard categories of information to be supplied by all the member states in at least one working language of the union. otherwise we will be lost in a lot of diverse information in diverse languages that fails to provide an overall picture and cannot offer real transparency.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the protection of the european union's financial interests combating fraud annual report for 2010. in 2010, the financial impact of irregularities in the spending of european funds increased to eur 1.8 billion, compared with eur 1.4 billion in 2009. the financial impact on revenue is also higher: €393 million, compared to €357 million in 2009. according to statistics for 2010, about 70% of all irregularity reports were related to cohesion policy. we call on the commission and the member states to design, implement and periodically evaluate uniform procurement systems to combat fraud and corruption, to define and implement clear conditions for participation in public procurement. it is necessary to implement systems for reviewing public procurement decisions at national level, to ensure transparency and accountability in public finances and to adopt and implement risk management and internal control systems. we ask the commission for reliable statistical data on the extent of fraud and corruption, in particular tax and customs fraud, as well as on organised crime activities related to the misuse of eu funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on ‘roaming on public mobile communications networks within the union’ because the text makes for better discipline in the mobile communication market in the eu. it was necessary to find an agreement at first reading as the previous regulation was about to expire and that would have left europe’s mobile communication market without this discipline for the whole summer period. in particular, the regulation provides for cuts in the price caps for roaming on voice calls and text messages. but the most significant improvement achieved concerns data services. thanks to the fundamental contribution of the s&d group, citizens will enjoy significant price reductions when using internet services from abroad. i would reiterate, however, that our final goal must be the creation of a roaming-free europe, in which no artificial borders will prevent citizens from communicating with one another freely and cheaply, even when they travel or live in other european states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because it brings additional legal clarity on chemicals, while ensuring greater involvement of the european chemicals agency in the application of the regulation on the export and import of dangerous chemicals. i appreciate that a good balance has been struck with regard to the prior informed consent procedure. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services, including the carriage of goods by road, rail and inland waterway. at the same time, it will ensure that the eu's high standards in public health and the environment are further promoted, avoiding the substitution of products that meet lower standards in these areas. i also stress the importance of applying the measures on the classification, packaging and labelling of chemicals, in accordance with amendment no 14 to the european parliament's proposal.
in writing. - chemicals play a vital role in our society today. we use them every day, from medicine to cars and construction materials to toys. the eu's chemical industry is the third largest in the world, generating direct waste of hazardous chemicals. the regulation on the export and import of dangerous chemicals aims to promote joint responsibilities and cooperative efforts in the field of international transport of chemicals that present a risk in order to protect human health and the environment from potential harm. the regulation applies to all chemicals exported to other parties to the convention or other countries, unless these provisions conflict with any specific requirement of the parties or countries concerned, subject to the provisions of the classification, packaging and labelling of hazardous chemicals regulation. the eu is a world leader in environmental legislation and i believe it is our duty to maintain this position.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation concerning the export and import of dangerous chemicals. i did so because i believe that this report contains a balanced analysis of the role that the eu has to play in protecting human health and the environment, both within and outside europe. the eu, deeming health and environmental protection to be of fundamental importance for its citizens, has decided to extend the list of prohibited chemicals established by the international rotterdam convention. i welcome the rapporteur’s suggestion to oppose allowing exporters to trade the listed products when they have not received a response within 60 days from the importing countries, because this would create an exception that would be potentially harmful to the health and to the environment of those countries with weaker administrations. this goes against the purposes of the eu, and the rotterdam convention as well. it is important that that the eu carefully limits its derogations regarding the export of dangerous chemicals, since i believe it is our responsibility to ensure that the products we export do not have negative effects in other countries.
in writing. − a note of caution is required in the case of commercial transfer of chemicals between countries, as they involve risks to the environment and the population. but the commission's proposal to amend the pic (prior informed consent) regulation will only give manufacturers of substances banned or restricted by the eu the opportunity to sell their goods in countries with clear legislation on these transactions. we cannot allow, and i do not agree, that the ignorance of the governments of all the countries facing this situation endangers the health of their citizens. the only point in this proposal which i welcome is the clarification of the definitions in the regulation and the involvement of echa (european chemicals agency) in its application, but i consider it absolutely necessary to limit the derogations from the pic procedure allowed by the commission, in order to be consistent with the european union's duty to contribute to the creation of fair and beneficial partnership relations for all the parties, the participating states.
in writing. − i would like to thank our colleagues for their hard work on this dossier and to congratulate them on their successful negotiations with the member states. as well as transposing the rotterdam convention into eu law, this agreement reflects parliament’s additional concerns about the trade in dangerous chemicals. we are determined that the eu does not become complicit in the export of dangerous chemicals to countries which have not fully considered their impact and which may lack the capacity to use, store and dispose of them safely. i welcome the guarantees that this agreement provides, particularly with regard to those chemicals which are carcinogenic, mutagenic, or toxic for reproduction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending rules 87a and 88 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, as this will clarify the modalities for the rapid adoption of delegated acts as well as implementing acts. the two new articles are important because they lay down the procedure to be followed in the case of a committee responsible. given that the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has substantially transformed the comitology procedure, i welcome the new article 87a, which provides for the procedure to be followed when the commission transmits a delegated act to parliament, and the new article 88, which provides for the modalities for the exercise of implementing powers. i also consider that the introduction of a new article 88a, which provides for specific provisions on procedures with associated committees or joint meetings, is necessary, as it complements the provisions laid down in the two preceding articles.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation to the commission amending regulation (ec) no 864/2007 on the law applicable to non-contractual obligations (rome ii). i believe that there should be legal remedies when people's freedom is violated, especially when their privacy and reputation are harmed. each member state must ensure that such remedies exist and are effective in the event of a breach of these rights. the rome ii regulation does not provide for the determination of the law applicable to infringements of the right to privacy and of rights relating to personality. we therefore ask the commission to submit a proposal to add to the rome ii regulation a provision determining the law applicable to non-contractual obligations arising from the infringement of the right to privacy and rights relating to personality, including defamation. in order to promote the public benefits of reducing litigation, improving access to justice, ensuring the proper functioning of the internal market and guaranteeing an appropriate balance between freedom of expression and the right to privacy, the commission should propose the establishment of a centre for the amicable settlement of cross-border disputes arising from infringements of privacy and personality rights, including slander, through an alternative dispute resolution mechanism.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the european union's trade and investment strategy in the southern mediterranean following the arab revolutions. through this report, the european union is sending a strong signal of support for the democratic aspirations expressed by the peoples of the southern mediterranean. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that some eu member states have not yet ratified their amendments to the agreement on the european bank for reconstruction and development. in view of the experience the bank has gained in eastern and southern europe and the potential usefulness it could have in the southern mediterranean, i believe that the decision to extend the mandate of the ebrd to the southern mediterranean basin needs to be ratified urgently by all eu member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the eu trade and investment strategy for the southern mediterranean following the arab spring revolutions, because i believe that a determined eu strategy for the development of economic and trade relations with these neighbouring countries is fundamental. since international trade is one of the exclusive competencies of the eu, given the importance of the euro-mediterranean strategy resulting from the barcelona process and in view of article 8 of the treaty on european union which states that the eu must develop a special relationship with neighbouring countries with the aim of establishing an area of prosperity and good neighbourliness, i believe that the european union has both the legal competence and the political responsibility to trigger a serious engagement in the area. i very much welcome the introduction of the ‘more-for-more’ principle, since it can represent a very effective tool to enable tailor-made and bottom-up strategies, which are fundamental for tackling the different economic and societal demands of the different southern mediterranean countries (smcs), while also ensuring that funding schemes, shaped according to the political and economic ambitions of smcs, are sufficiently effective.
in writing. − the arab spring was a landmark event and was driven by both people's aspirations for freedom and their desire to improve their living standards. at present, unrest in this region persists and is clearly linked to weaknesses in local economies. they are characterised by an unequal distribution of wealth, insufficient economic reforms, low capacity for job creation and a low level of regional trade integration. i believe that these countries need to reinvigorate their economies to achieve sustainable and inclusive economic growth, and that this requires much more consistent and fairer support from the eu for real economic development for the benefit of all. these countries should also be encouraged to create a strong legislative framework that is business and entrepreneurship friendly, giving a strong role to small and medium-sized enterprises, which play a key role in job creation.
in writing. − the european union has a duty to support the continuation and deepening of the reforms initiated in the arab states following the 'spring' of 2011. this support should include measures associated with the union's trade policy. however, i insist on the need to impose on farmers in these countries who wish to export to eu countries the same standards of food safety, the environment and animal welfare as are imposed on european farmers. any product that reaches european consumers' tables must meet these standards, which are the highest in the world, and at the same time extremely expensive.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the eu's trade and investment strategy in the southern mediterranean following the arab revolutions. a successful trade strategy for the region must strengthen the role of smes, which account for up to 30% of employment in some countries. more efforts are needed to reduce the high number of unregistered smes operating on the 'black market'. studies show that the proportion of illegal work (excluding agriculture) in some southern mediterranean countries is as high as 70%. i regret that smes and cooperatives have limited access to investment and insist on the need to provide them with adequate access to finance through the provision of reliable, accessible and easy-to-use microcredit and through the european investment bank (eib) counter-guarantee programmes. in this respect, i welcome the recent extension of the mandate of the ebrd. visa facilitation remains an issue for many representatives of smes from the southern mediterranean countries who intend to undertake visits to the eu institutions to attend meetings or training sessions, or for other business reasons. the eu has a responsibility to take the lead in facilitating the region's transition to democracy and economic integration, based on a free and fair market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft resolution, as it was indispensable to help clarify a dangerous situation of legal uncertainty, with a potential impact on farmers' activities and also of a nature to cause concern amongst public opinion. the complexity of the problem calls for a wide-ranging debate to follow, because the solutions called for in the resolution are necessary but not sufficient. parliament must send a strong signal in this respect, because no one can hold a patent on nature. however, neither the current debate nor any future one should turn into a battle against companies involved in research, and intellectual property rights based on sound arguments should not be called into question.
in writing. - today, 80 to 90% of world trade is carried by sea. the annual cost of piracy to the global economy ranges from 7 to 12 billion dollars, and the earnings of pirates in 2011 were estimated at 238 million dollars. pirate attacks in the arabian sea, the gulf of aden and the indian ocean have increased from 20 in 2006 to 219 in 2011, and the pirate area has now expanded to 1,300 nautical miles off the somali coast. the gulf of aden is one of the world's most important shipping routes, carrying about 12 percent of the world's oil. somali territorial waters and adjacent shores are largely ungoverned, allowing piracy to flourish and affect the international maritime domain. this combination of illegal activity and lawlessness is a breeding ground for high levels of instability, organised crime and other transnational threats.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on maritime piracy. maritime transport has been one of the cornerstones of economic development and prosperity in europe throughout its history, and over 80% of world trade is carried by sea. unfortunately, piracy is a threat to international security and regional stability and therefore the eu has a real interest in contributing to international maritime security and in combating piracy and its root causes. with 10 000 european ships crossing dangerous sea areas every year, piracy is both a matter of life and safety for people and an economic problem, as it endangers international maritime trade routes, with a significant negative impact on international trade. we demand immediate and effective measures to bring to justice and punish those suspected of acts of piracy. we urge third countries and eu member states that have not yet done so to transpose into their national legislation all the provisions laid down by the un convention on the law of the sea and the un convention for the suppression of unlawful acts against the safety of maritime navigation.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mr busuttil, on this report of his own initiative. the single market is an area on which all member states, without exception, agree that it is an asset of the european union to return to economic growth, to create jobs. however, the first condition for the proper functioning of the single market is that all member states transpose european rules into national legislation; and here, unfortunately, although progress has been made, we still have member states which are lagging behind in this transposition. the second condition is to have a good quality of transposition of european rules into national legislation - and here i must stress that we are hitting the first hurdle in the process of drawing up european legislation itself. every time we enter into a tripartite negotiation between the european parliament, the council and the european commission, we encounter the resistance of some member states to agree to the drawing up of tables of correspondence between the provisions of european rules and the provisions of national legislation in which these rules are transposed. these tables of correspondence are the first step to ensure competent monitoring of the quality of the transposition process. that is why i think we must have as a rule that any european legislation must be accompanied in the member states by the drawing up of these tables of correspondence.
the single market plays a crucial role in helping europe to emerge from economic stagnation. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of the timely transposition and correct implementation of european directives. i therefore consider that constant monitoring of member states is essential. this will create a framework for stronger regulation of the internal market. both businesses and citizens will be able to benefit from an improved single market. the latest internal market scoreboard shows that only a small number of member states have met their transposition targets. romania has unfortunately failed to meet its 1% target despite good results in march. our country must step up its efforts to transpose the union's rules.
member of the commission. − madam president, the issue of visa non-reciprocity continues to be a significant irritant in eu-canada relations. canada continues, as you know, to maintain the visa requirement for the citizens of bulgaria and romania, and also reintroduced it for czech citizens over two years ago. this is an issue we have raised numerous times in the course of the contacts we have with canada, on every relevant occasion and at all levels, in order to try to find a solution in partnership with the member states affected. the eu is the number one source region for asylum applications in canada. this is of course a serious concern, and we know it could have potential negative effects on the successful conclusion and ratification of several important agreements with canada, such as the comprehensive economic and trade agreement (ceta) and the strategic partnership agreement. visa-free travel between the eu and canada does not fall within the scope of the ceta negotiations, and ceta has not been directly used as a way of putting pressure on canada. however, the eu negotiators have repeatedly, in the margins of the negotiations, made it clear to their canadian counterparts that this issue is important for the eu, and decisive for the member states concerned. it has been pointed out to the canadian negotiators that such measures are in contradiction with the spirit of an agreement like the ceta, which tries to bring the eu and canada more closely together. the commission welcomes the draft asylum reform proposed in canada. once this is adopted and in force, it should act as a deterrent to unfounded applications and lead canada to lift the visa requirement for czech citizens. we are ready to explore with canada, in close cooperation with the member states concerned, possible additional measures to help reduce unfounded asylum applications, and we plan to set up a joint working group on this issue. in the case of romania and bulgaria, full accession to the schengen area will be an important factor with regard to canada’s position on visas. the commission will shortly present its seventh visa reciprocity report. this will include the canadian issue and will set out the future approach. our previous report, in 2010, concluded that the eu was ‘confronted with the limits’ of the existing reciprocity mechanism. in the ongoing negotiations on the amendment of regulation no 539/2001, the commission fully supports improvements to the reciprocity mechanism to ensure solidarity among the member states, provided that these are legally and institutionally sound and do not conflict with the commission’s right of initiative. a better reciprocity mechanism should enable the eu to exert quicker and more sustained influence over relevant third countries. all existing countries would be re-examined by the commission under this new, more efficient mechanism. the commission hopes that the legislative negotiations on all aspects of the proposal will proceed quickly, allowing agreement to be reached in the course of the danish presidency.
on behalf of the epp group. the european union and canada have special status relations. however, citizens of three member states need a visa to enter canada. this undermines the common european visa policy, which is based on reciprocity and is designed to ensure equal treatment for all union citizens. member states shall participate on an equal footing in the comprehensive economic and trade agreement with canada. this agreement is decisive for the future of economic relations between the european union and canada and will establish the future legal framework for the development of these relations. under this agreement, canada treats all member states equally. but when it comes to granting visas to enter canada or equal treatment when it comes to visa elimination, canada is not as consistent. a double standard is applied and criteria are not sufficiently clear and transparent. new legislation on the canadian asylum system discourages asylum seekers from union countries. it is an additional argument that the maintenance of visas for the three member states is unjustified. the commission will soon, later this year, seek parliament's assent to the comprehensive economic and trade agreement with canada. the lack of equal treatment for all union citizens with regard to visa-free travel to canada creates clear reservations about voting and it is not impossible that the european parliament may not give its opinion. i would remind you that the libe committee recently voted for an automatic procedure for the use of the reciprocity clause in the case of third countries which maintain visas for european citizens. it is the commission's duty to find a solution to the current situation regarding visas for romanian, bulgarian and czech citizens. i ask the commission to support, as a matter of priority, the abolition of visas for all european citizens in the negotiations for the global economic agreement. it is the commission's duty to ensure equal treatment for all european citizens.
the ceta agreement currently under negotiation is a step forward in the trade and economic relations between the european union and canada. however, it is also a symbol of a great paradox and a serious inconsistency on the part of the european union. under this agreement, goods and services produced in romania, bulgaria, and the czech republic will move freely in canada, but without the citizens of these countries having the same right. in other words, goods produced in romania, bulgaria or the czech republic are unfortunately more important than the citizens of these member states themselves. it is an abnormal and discriminatory situation which cannot be accepted and which also demonstrates the inability of the european commission to ensure equal rights for european citizens. the european parliament must constantly remind the commission and the council that without solidarity between the member states, the european union cannot function optimally. at the same time, we can also speak of a lack of good cooperation on the part of canada. while in the case of the czech republic the reason invoked has discriminatory tendencies towards an ethnic group, in the case of romania canada artificially maintains a high refusal rate to justify non-inclusion in the visa waiver programme. numerous romanian citizens, and i will mention here only those who agreed to have their names made public: maria dalcu, cosmin dragoi or nicolae ion, have complained to us about the unjustified way in which canadian consulates have refused their visa applications. the cases are far more numerous and even make me question the good faith of the canadian authorities involved. of course, there are also positive signs from the canadian authorities, whom i have had the opportunity to meet in several official delegations. during my most recent visit to ottawa earlier this month, i received assurances from both the federal minister of immigration and members of the federal parliament that the visa problem would be resolved once the new immigration law was passed in june. however, real progress is very slow, and even if the new law does come into force it is unclear when and if visas will be eliminated for romania, bulgaria and the czech republic, as other conditionalities could be used to further block visa-free access to canada for citizens of the three countries. i would like to stress once again that the issue of visas must not be left on the back burner by either canada or the european commission, but must be a priority on the agenda of bilateral relations. as i said, goods and services can't be more important than our own citizens. it is our role as representatives of these european citizens to ensure that their rights take precedence over any other economic considerations. that is why i want to end by saying very clearly that the ratification of the ceta agreement may also depend on progress in lifting visas for romanian, bulgarian and czech citizens.
it's a blue-card question. i'm not sure what you mean. i would like to ask our honourable colleague: in this case, why does canada not conclude a trade agreement with each member state individually?
there are numerous bilateral agreements between canada and eu member states in the field of science and technology, agreements involving government institutions, university research centres, private foundations, the private sector. the european union and canada also need to step up their cooperation in the field of electronic communications and information technology. i would point out that in the field of transport, the european parliament has approved the conclusion of three agreements between the european union and canada: an air transport framework agreement, a civil aviation safety agreement and an agreement on the passenger name record, all of which are considered as exemplary for each category of agreement. these agreements facilitate the creation of a single air transport market between the european union and canada, in which investment could flow freely and in which european and canadian airlines could provide air services without any restrictions, including on the domestic markets of the two parties. the air transport framework agreement includes a gradual phasing-out of traffic rights and investment opportunities, as well as large-scale cooperation on a range of issues including safety, security, social issues, consumer interests, the environment, air traffic management, state aid and competition. all these bilateral agreements and in particular a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the european union and canada are based on a spirit of trust and cooperation between the parties. the same spirit of trust and cooperation must, however, be shown in ensuring visa-free travel to canada for all citizens of the european union. we are calling for citizens of romania, bulgaria and the czech republic to benefit from visa-free travel to canada as of this year. we demand that the conclusion of a comprehensive economic and trade agreement between the european union and canada be made conditional on all citizens of the european union, and therefore also the citizens of romania, bulgaria and the czech republic, benefiting in a non-discriminatory manner from visa-free travel to canada.
today's debate is the 'semi-final' of a fight that will culminate in the abolition of visas for romanian, czech and bulgarian citizens, which have been imposed by the canadian authorities for one constant reason: the high rate of asylum applications from some eastern european citizens, particularly from certain minorities, once they arrive in canada on a tourist visa. as a member of the eu-canada interparliamentary delegation, i have advocated on every occasion, including through letters to canadian officials, the need to change the asylum procedure for european citizens so that the constant abuse of this procedure disappears. a few months ago, canada finally passed new immigration legislation, legislation that reduced the time for citizens of democratic countries to process asylum claims from a few years to a few weeks. we hoped that once the problem of abusive asylum seekers was eliminated, canada would abandon visas, as there was no reason to keep them. unfortunately, however, i regret to note that canadian officials have not changed their discourse on this issue at all, so that the last possibility to change this attitude is to appeal to european solidarity. in the second half of this year, the long-negotiated eu-canada free trade agreement, which currently contains no visa waiver provisions, will enter parliament for approval. with this debate, i, along with the other initiators of the question to the commission, want to send a strong signal to both the european negotiators - to give priority to the visa issue - and to the canadian government, so that the european parliament is not put in a position to reject the free trade agreement on the grounds that there is no free movement of persons. as is well known, the european parliament is very sensitive to human rights issues, as it has shown many times, surprisingly for many, and in the case of the free trade agreement it is obvious that we cannot speak of the free movement of goods, capital and services without the free movement of persons.
day and night on this planet, horrors are happening that are shocking. the dogs of violence have been unleashed and no one can stop them. the most vulnerable victims are the defenseless. consider the case of virgil cristian pop, a 38-year-old romanian. in a prison in lecce, italy, he was held in solitary confinement for six months, where he was severely beaten, after which he went on a hunger strike. unfortunately, no one believed him, he was totally ignored, and the poor man died after fifty days of strike. the same inhumanity is shown by the repressive forces that beat up environmental protesters, or anti-globalization, or anti-arms, or sports galleries. almost every day we witness scandalous scenes. assault battalions of police and gendarmes equipped like aliens are trampling on women and men, young and old, who have no weapons, but only a flower, and these gorillas and their political trainers call this democracy and ensuring public order. but throughout history, the people have always been right, not the servants of the powerful who act like kapoes under hypnosis. unfortunately, hitler and stalin did not die, they were just reincarnated.
the creation of an area of freedom, security and justice is one of the union's main objectives. its achievement requires concrete measures to ensure a higher degree of individual safety for each citizen. the commission's communication is a first step in this direction by identifying the five key areas and the specific actions it proposes, but further efforts are needed to combat organised crime and crime in general. often, seemingly minor crimes, such as pickpocketing and car theft, that affect so many citizens, may be the work of an international criminal network. in this context, i support europol's greater involvement in the analysis and management of the main internal security risks in accordance with article 6.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to join mrs borsellino in fiercely condemning this weekend’s atrocities in brindisi. this is something that we can never defend. whatever the causes behind this, the great symbolism that it was the school named after mrs falcone is of course something that we must reflect upon. the girl came from a village that i visited only two weeks ago, to learn how the community works against the mafia and works to confiscate the goods of organised crime. this is a barbaric act that we must all condemn. let me also thank you for your report. i think you have done excellent work. i would also like to thank the shadow rapporteurs. it really contributes to the development of the internal security strategy. we fully share your view that the internal security strategy should be a shared agenda for all the institutions and the agencies, with clear roles and responsibilities and a common goal. the security of citizens is at the heart of all our efforts. the internal security strategy provides the best platform to respond to security threats, encompassing both policy-setting and operational cooperation, which is now taking shape in a cycle on serious and organised crime. in this context, we very much welcome the idea of the ‘parliamentary policy cycle’, involving the european parliament, as well as national parliaments, in a joint debate on the state of play with regular reports from the commission. the commission is currently working on the second implementation report of the internal security strategy, which will be published by the end of the year. implementing the internal security strategy is about keeping promises on the five objectives. there is no ranking between those objectives, which are fighting and preventing serious and organised crime, terrorism and cybercrime, management of our external borders, and building resilience to natural and man-made disasters. we have achieved quite a lot since the first publication: for instance the report on confiscation of goods, the establishment of the radicalisation awareness network, the proposal on eu pnr, and the proposal to establish a cyber centre. we are also preparing, for the end of this year, reforms of cepol, europol and eurojust, which would – as you call for – improve the cooperation between police agencies, but also on a national level. we will also present proposals on improving our protection against critical infrastructure and by the end of the year we will hold a conference gathering our experience and building on one year of the establishment of the radicalisation awareness network, with some ideas and policies presented from that network. this second report will assess the state of play of the previously promised actions, including the policy cycle, but we are also looking at the opportunities that security can offer in responding to the economic and financial crisis, because of course this is also key in establishing an environment where people, investors and companies feel safe and secure. i believe that mrs borsellino’s report is a very valuable milestone in parliament’s involvement in the internal security strategy and i look forward to working with you on this matter.
in writing. internet security is now one of the most important political priorities for the european union. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's commitments in the area of security and defence. that is why i consider that directive 2008/114 should be extended to cover information and communication technologies and be recognised as a critical sector. i believe that it is urgent to set up a european-wide alert network on critical infrastructure and to include financial services, health, food and water, nuclear research and industry in the alert system.
member of the commission. − madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur very much for having taken the initiative to prepare a report on this issue. it links in perfectly with the communication on eu criminal policy that the commission published last september, and i am really glad to see that this communication has achieved its goal in launching a debate inside and outside the institutions. this was our aim in the commission: to summarise for the first time the principles guiding legislation on criminal law so as to strengthen the enforcement of eu policies under the new legal framework of the lisbon treaty. mr de jong’s report very much follows that objective, and i am really grateful for that. clear and transparent rules on when to use european criminal law are crucial, and we fully share the view of the rapporteur that any legislation at eu level must fully respect the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. we know – and it has been clear from the debate here – that criminal law is a sensitive area, with quite substantial differences between the different member states. this has to be taken into account. because of that, it is crucial that we ensure full respect of the rights guaranteed by the charter of fundamental rights and the european convention on human rights for all eu criminal law legislation. we need to understand each other’s systems better in order to be able to assess how we can bring them closer together where this is necessary, while respecting the different legal systems and traditions in all member states. eu criminal law to strengthen the enforcement of eu policies is only needed in selected areas, but it can provide significant added value. we have seen this for example in the context of environmental crime, where two important directives were adopted in 2008 and 2009. these were the first instruments adopted on criminal law in the ordinary legislative proposal. the fruitful cooperation between the commission and parliament on these files has set an example for future work. we also see the importance of common eu rules when it comes to discussing proposals for criminal law measures to fight insider dealing and market manipulation. it is clear that the eu financial markets can only have investors’ confidence and trust if we send a strong signal in the form of common rules. in addition to rendering eu policies effective through the introduction of criminal law measures, the treaty establishes ten ‘euro crimes’ that are both serious and have a cross-border dimension, justifying the need to legislate common minimum rules on definitions of offences and sanctions. much has been achieved in relation to the latter in the post-lisbon period, specifically with the adoption of directives on the fight against trafficking in human beings as well as the fight against sexual exploitation of children. negotiations are being finalised regarding the cybercrime directive, and the newly-adopted proposal on the harmonisation of confiscation laws is about to be negotiated. all these initiatives have so far contributed to the development of treaty provisions contributing, inter alia, to a pragmatic interpretation of the concept of common minimum rules in both areas, and they are important frames of reference for further development of criminal law at eu level. putting in place a coherent eu criminal policy requires further reflection and discussion on many legal issues. the european commission has just set up an expert group which will meet for the first time in june, and we will be happy to report once they have met. it will be composed of experienced academics and practitioners in the field. this expert group will be a forum to discuss the challenging and difficult questions which arise when the eu considers criminal law measures and advises on the best way forward. we fully share the approach set out in the resolution. for instance, our criminal law communication also supports the idea of simpler language to guide eu legislators when they draft criminal law provisions. so the commission’s communication last year, and this report – which has received considerable support here – are the starting point for the shaping of a common eu criminal policy, and i look forward to working with parliament and moving further towards a common goal: a true area of freedom, security and justice.
the measures taken so far by the turkish authorities demonstrate their commitment to the protection and promotion of women's rights, but further efforts are needed to implement the legislation adopted, especially in areas such as domestic violence. the creation of a specialised department within the office of the prosecutor-general is a step forward in this regard. at the same time, attention should be paid to information and prevention measures. in this context, i welcome the creation of the special commission on gender equality within the ministry of education. it demonstrates the turkish government's awareness of the need to combat stereotypes and bring about a lasting change in mindset. last but not least, i am glad that the number of women in the turkish parliament has increased, but i do not support the report's recommendations on the establishment of a quota system.
i believe that there needs to be a high level of protection for all categories of consumers and additional attention should be paid to the vulnerable. eu policy focuses on protecting and promoting consumer rights. it presents important issues for strengthening the single market and for achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. a strategy to ensure safety and strengthen consumer rights is therefore welcome. i would point out that member states should take specific measures to ensure adequate protection. in romania, the liberalisation of gas and energy prices involves identifying vulnerable consumers in order to protect them from the impact of price adjustments. their number is estimated at between 1.15 and 1.4 million.
access to finance for smes, so essential to their growth and development, remains, however, one of the major challenges at both european and national level, as smes are one of the categories most affected by the current economic crisis. participation in structural fund projects is now a real opportunity for survival. the role of the european institutions, and especially that of national governments, remains, however, essential in supporting smes through economic measures to enable them to access liquidity and investment to complete their ongoing projects. the effectiveness and efficiency of money allocated to financial instruments for smes has been reduced by an inadequate and far too complicated regulatory framework for the different types of financial instruments used, with the direct consequence of discouraging rather than stimulating potential beneficiaries. in order to allow the development of strategic quality projects and to ensure the maximum absorption of structural funds for this sector, the private sector, concrete and immediate measures are needed to simplify the operating rules, but also to provide the necessary technical assistance in terms of access to funds, project implementation and improvement of entrepreneurial skills.
smes are the backbone of the european economy and unfortunately the economic and financial crisis has had a dramatic impact on their position and development prospects, with many smes lacking access to finance. given that the european funds are the main source of funding and, of course, the only eu instruments for job creation and support for smes, i believe that: 1. it is absolutely necessary to maintain the cohesion policy budget for this category of beneficiaries for the next programming period; and 2. it is absolutely essential to involve local and regional authorities from the very early stages of the design and development of future operational programmes in order to implement more effectively a cohesion policy that supports smes and, at the same time, it is essential to allocate according to the specificity of the areas.
in writing. many european smes are struggling to access capital, and cohesion policy is aiming to improve the current situation. in this context, instruments aimed at improving access to finance play a key role. in romania, smes account for 99.7% of the total number of enterprises. moreover, they generate two thirds of all jobs. and financing is one of the biggest problems they face, with only 15% of smes getting bank credit. participation in projects financed by the structural funds is therefore essential, as they represent an important source of development for smes. the jeremie participation fund is subsidised in my country by the erdf and its objectives are to promote sustainable growth in the productive sector. at the same time, it aims to strengthen a business-friendly environment through a flexible strategic approach. to date, some 6000 contracts have been signed on the main lines of financing for the sme sector under the development programmes. i stress the importance of maintaining such initiatives in the future cohesion policy. at the same time, i think that the use of european funds to support the creation of smes, especially by young people, is welcome. this will stimulate entrepreneurship among them, while ensuring economic growth and lower unemployment.
in writing. removing obstacles to sme development is essential to overcome the current economic situation. in addition to the economic crisis, smes are facing increasing difficulties in obtaining financing and market access. improving access to financial support for start-up innovative enterprises in the form of start-up aid is necessary. the commission must take the following concrete steps, which are essential to facilitate the implementation of an entrepreneurial framework: - draw up a plan to ensure the introduction of innovative products on the market and their commercialisation; - define a clear strategy to ensure that every european citizen has the opportunity to work in another member state; - introduction of a set of measures to support smes in implementing the new energy efficiency plan. the economic crisis will continue as long as there are no jobs. this is why the development of new jobs in the fields of energy, building construction, infrastructure and equipment, transport and communications are economic development projects capable of reducing regional asymmetries and development inequalities in the european union.
in writing. smes are a major driver of economic growth in the eu, contributing to innovation and technological development and have significant job creation potential. to achieve these goals, businesses need eu support through comprehensive funding. the attractiveness of smes lies in their high degree of adaptability. i regret that today a european telecommunications giant can no longer keep up with competing manufacturers in third countries. the situation is not similar for european smes in the sector, which have had the ability to shape their offer according to market requirements. in addition to structural support, enterprises must benefit from assistance programmes at local level. the european enterprise network provides them with integrated information, transfer services, innovation and technology, finance and relevant legislation. horizontal cooperation can bring considerable benefits to the regions and should therefore be promoted accordingly. i would like to stress the importance of the financial instruments made available to smes by the commission and the eib. in countries such as romania, technical assistance programmes have been successful and continue to be a necessary support for the entrepreneurial environment.
in writing. in the context of the debate, i would like to underline the importance of the jeremie initiative (joint european resources for micro, small and medium-sized enterprises), which offers member states the possibility to use part of the european structural funds to finance small and medium-sized enterprises through equity participation, loans or guarantees, through a participation fund (revolving). in this period, one of the most difficult problems facing smes in attracting structural funds is the lack of co-financing capacity, and in these circumstances, the continuation, development and diversification of initiatives such as jeremie in the future cohesion policy would be necessary and useful for many entrepreneurs. however, much more effort should be made to bring these types of initiatives to the attention of the interested public, and effective measures are needed to reduce excessive bureaucracy.
member of the commission. − mr president, the honourable members and yourself are all right. you are all right. the situation that we are facing is very complex. let me remind you of the bigger picture. we are talking about the transformation and transition of a country of 50 million people, we are talking about the transformation of eastern europe and we are talking about a country, a region, where, not a long time ago – and we all here remember this – a totalitarian regime reigned, the soviet totalitarian regime to be more precise. this is not the first region where the european union has tried to transform and expand the values of democracy and legality. there are others – central europe, the western balkans – where, through the policy of enlargement and by using those countries’ vision of sooner or later joining the european union, this organisation has been successful. i have no illusions about ukraine and that part of europe. i have a vision that sooner or later we will be able to be bold with regard to this region and this country and that we will help in the transformation there. now, in that transformation, there has been a discussion about geopolitics being on one side and values on the other side. i do not see a contradiction. i think we need to be aware of geopolitics, but we should not play geopolitics. i think we should do everything possible to help ukraine to transform and that this is in line with the legitimate aspirations of the people. we should be flexible, innovative and creative. we should not see the situation as being black and white. at the same time there is one thing on which we should never compromise. we should never compromise on our values and our principles because, if we do and if we make these compromises, sooner or later we will face more than challenges – problems – in our own neighbourhood, if not within the european union. that was my first point. my second point concerns boycotting the football championship. in the commission and the council we have never used the word ‘boycott’. let me therefore reiterate the position on euro 2012. as matters now stand, president barroso has no intention of travelling to the ukraine or of attending euro 2012 events in ukraine. this position is shared by the college, bearing in mind that commissioners would have been attending in a personal rather than a professional capacity. it is not a boycott and we hope that euro 2012 will be a great success. this does not affect the matches in poland, of course. and yes, the commission is in favour of the fair play which is so closely associated with sport also being associated with politics. turning now to the important question about the elections – free and fair elections. the member states are agreed on the importance of sending as many european union election observers as possible as part of the osce/odihr election observation mission. the european union delegation in kiev has already started coordinating actions with the european union heads of missions with a view to supporting training of observers or financing exit polls, which played an essential role in the evaluation of previous elections, particularly those in 2004. a european union delegation has also observed all the relevant meetings of the central election commission. also in the pipeline are projects in support of media monitoring, analysis of marketing of parties and so on with the council of europe – all the projects to reach out to vulnerable voters. that was my third point. my fourth point – to a more interested group of parliamentarians – is that, for my part, i care about former prime minister yulia timoshenko as a person and i care about her as a politician. as a person, together with you, i will do my best firstly to ensure that she has access to medical care she feels comfortable with and that treatment begins to address the cause of her illness. next, i will do everything possible, together with you, to ensure that we have access to her and that she has access to her family and to her lawyers. i will also make sure, together with you, that the court of cassation will offer a different picture of justice and the rule of law in ukraine. but i also care about her as a politician and my motto here is that, whatever the political responsibility – and there were many she had to deal with when she was prime minister – whenever we are talking about political responsibility, the right arena is not a court or prison but an open arena and elections. whenever there is the possibility of criminal responsibility, or talk of criminal responsibility, beyond any doubt all preconditions need to be in place for the rule of law to deliver and for there to be a fair trial. i have a fifth and last remark. yulia timoshenko herself has asked that her case should not be used as an excuse to slow the association process. we respect that. at the same time, we demand that ukraine show that it respects the spirit of our new agreement before we can confidently open the way to allow its entry into force.
in writing. this is the fourth resolution during the current term of office in which the european parliament expresses its concern about the human rights situation in ukraine. a year ago, on june 9, 2011, i was already sounding the alarm about the selective nature of the judicial investigations concerning former prime minister yulia tymoshenko and some of the members of the government she led. unfortunately, we are forced to return to this subject and once again ask the ukrainian authorities to demonstrate transparency and impartiality in the trial against yulia tymoshenko. as a member of the council of europe, ukraine must comply with the rulings of the european court of justice. the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for ukraine's european integration. to achieve such a goal, it is not enough for the ukrainian people to want integration, but it is necessary for the political leaders in kiev to act as in a state of law. i am convinced that if they show the political will, ukrainian politicians will be able to get the association agreement with the european union adopted, which we all want to see implemented.
in writing. – the monitoring of the judiciary development in various eu partner countries should relate to the legislative and institutional process, not specific judicial cases. by involving itself in the assessment of mrs tymoshenko’s case, the parliament illegally acts as a court of appeal driven by a political rationale. many of those who insist on sanctioning ukraine have a hidden agenda unrelated to the human rights. they desire to stop the eu’s future enlargement by stopping ukraine’s further eu integration. likewise, these people want to freeze the grey international status quo of ukraine by dividing its political operators into pro-russians, left under russian control, and pro-europeans misled by empty promises. special trade arrangements guaranteed by supporting certain political players in ukraine could also be the motivation behind this approach. these do not reflect the european interest but some member states’ interests or at worst those of some private groups. the european parliament should reject such hidden agendas, while acknowledging that the eu is not strong enough to impose its wishes on ukraine and that this country has other geo-political alternatives than the eu integration.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on the union’s internal security strategy. i strongly believe that corruption, organised crime, terrorism, radicalisation, cyber-crime, challenges to border management and illicit trafficking all represent major threats to the internal security of the european union and to the lives of its citizens. therefore concrete action must be taken by the relevant bodies in order not only to fight against these threats but also to prevent them. obviously reinforcement of this policy must be based on respect for democratic values, human rights and fundamental freedoms. this balance must ensure the security of each human life.
i voted for this report because i consider it a coherent option for a coherent strategy of the european union, but i would like to stress the link between the internal and external dimensions in terms of the security strategy. i think this report succeeds in addressing this link coherently and also in proposing solutions because it asks the council, asks the high representative to be concerned with neighbourhood partnerships, in particular the initiatives on the union for the mediterranean, the eastern partnership and the black sea synergy. in this context, cooperation between the european union, nato and the osce becomes relevant. cross-border organised crime is not only a matter affecting the european dimension and cannot be eradicated and tackled in a coherent and effective manner without a common instrument in this area. i believe that the current crisis should not be an obstacle to the creation of this instrument, but the opposite.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on the eu approach to criminal law. i support the application of the principle of mutual recognition in practice – not so much to extend the scope of eu harmonised law but rather to promote cooperation between judiciaries which must be equally reliable and share the same level of quality and integrity. i would like to make a comment following what i heard from my british colleagues in particular. as an mep from a new member state, i want to change my domestic judicial system for the better, and it is in my interest to look at judicial systems which work better and are long-established and proven over hundreds of years, so that is why i am voting for eu-level cooperation, through which best practices can be imported into the new member states.
i voted for this report because i support the establishment of a common legal culture at european level, including in criminal matters. it also depends on the harmonisation of legal principles and practice, but criminal law remains primarily a competence of the member states. proposals made at european level must therefore respect the principles of proportionality and subsidiarity. at the same time, the definition of common approaches will allow for increased trust between national systems. it will provide greater legal certainty for citizens. in this context, i draw attention to article 9. there is a need to define minimum uniform standards of protection for persons involved in criminal proceedings. i also support the proposal to set up an interinstitutional working group to ensure the consistency of the union's criminal law.
i voted for this report because it is a coherent approach to our long-standing initiative, which began in maastricht in 1992, to establish a european criminal justice system. of course, this system must take into account the fact that criminal law is an expression of a nation's civilization and culture and, in these circumstances, it is absolutely different from european systems, but we must not ignore a reality which calls for a coherent approach by the institutions of criminal law, and i am thinking in particular of crimes in the financial field, market manipulation, and commercial crimes. i think it is in everyone's interest to work with the same standards, to try to have the same vision of prevention, but also the same vision of combating, because it is vital for the coherence of the union. but i think we need to keep diversity in criminal law.
mr president, i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union should use its influence to support the cause of women in turkey and promote women’s rights in accordance with the charter of european rights. turkey is the largest country seeking membership in the union; this is both an opportunity and a challenge. the accession process is valuable in itself and we must assist accession countries in implementing laws which are consistent with our principles and values, although i have to say that there are member states where few women are in politics and in high level decision-making positions, so we also have to work in our own member states. coming back to turkey, women are active members of their communities and must be involved in the decision-making process in all areas. increased political participation for approximately half of the turkish population will only increase the country’s wealth and its democratic credentials. i welcome this report and endorse its recommendations.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a fair reflection of the situation of women in turkey and at the same time a fair reflection of the european union's efforts to implement a model of gender equality specific to europe but not specific to turkey. i think that's why so many of our unresolved and unrealized issues are generated by the model structure of turkey. what is more important, in my view, is to combat violence against women in turkey and i welcome the actions taken by the turkish government, institutional actions, but i believe that sustained efforts must be made at the moment so that these actions are somehow objectified in practice. it is unacceptable to continue these honor killings, these honor killings, which in my opinion are a 21st century barbarism. but there are issues that could be applied to our member states as well. it's hard to introduce gender tolerance in a country like turkey.
in writing. − the strategy highlights all threats to the union, from terrorism and organised crime to cybercrime and drug, arms and human trafficking. in addition, natural as well as man-made disasters such as forest fires are taken into account, and there is also an emphasis on coordination in the face of a challenge to citizens across the union. an important objective is to prevent terrorism and to combat radicalisation and recruitment of islamist militants. this would be achieved by developing a policy for the extraction and analysis of financial messaging data within the eu, the eu terrorist finance tracking programme (tftp) (2011), establishing a common european network to increase public awareness of radicalisation and adopting measures to counter violent extremist propaganda (2011), strengthening the eu transport security policy (2011). the strategy focuses on preventing these phenomena, both through an efficient exchange of information between the union's member states and through actions to identify their causes.
in writing. − i voted for the european union internal security strategy because the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon further strengthened the area of freedom, security and justice (afsj) with regard to fundamental rights and the different legal systems and traditions of the member states, and because policies in this area are a shared competence between the union and the member states, in accordance with the treaty provisions, and the treaty of lisbon has firmly anchored eu security policy in a specific eu rule of law, laying the foundations for the development of a security agenda, deeply shared by the eu and the member states and subject to democratic control at european and national level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the european union’s internal security strategy because i strongly believe that the ever more globalised criminal activities have to be combated as a matter of urgency with a joint effort by all the european member states. this report, by clearly addressing the logic of subsidiarity driving the eu treaty regarding criminal matters, calls for an improved synergy between the internal and external aspects of security and highlights the importance of ensuring that measures implementing the iss are in compliance with union’s rights obligations. i also very positively welcome the capacity of the report to clearly explain how border management and human mobility are not just security issues, but key features of a wider political strategy, that have to involve the security dimension as well as immigration, asylum and development policies. in this sense, free movement and fundamental rights maintain their central importance for the application iss dispositions: the eu, as an area of freedom and justice, must keep these as leading principles.
in writing. − to counter major threats to internal security, the european union needs a unified, integrated approach. a strategy is therefore needed to provide a climate of increased security for every european citizen, but this security requires respect for common values and priorities, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, the rule of law and democracy. the key elements of ensuring a secure environment for european citizens must be the involvement of the european institutions and political, economic and social actors in security strategies, the strengthening of mechanisms to prevent crime, terrorism and criminality, and cooperation and solidarity between member states. concurrently, concrete action is needed to promote democracy, peace and stability in the european union's neighbourhood, thus facilitating the creation of a common space of stability, security and progress. i would point out that all measures to improve security must focus on the main beneficiary: the european citizen!
in writing. − the report proposes a harmonisation of criminal law in the member states with a view to achieving a common legal culture in the fight against crime. criminal law differs from other legal fields in that, by definition, it restricts certain human rights concerning the fundamental freedoms of accused and/or convicted persons. often, even if a person is not convicted, the criminal investigation itself can have a stigmatizing effect, so many people will tend to believe that there are no rumors without a real cause. to facilitate future cooperation it is essential that the institutions agree on a certain type of common framework. such a framework could include a set of principles governing any criminal law instrument. i also believe that such a framework should contain precise guidelines on the internal procedures within each institution in order to ensure a coherent approach.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's approach to criminal law. in order to facilitate cooperation in the future, it is essential that the institutions agree on a certain type of common framework. such a framework could usefully include a set of principles governing any criminal law instrument. in addition, model provisions may be added, as included, for example, in the council conclusions of november 2009. such a framework could serve as a basis for the preparation of impact assessments by the european commission and could contribute to the development of appropriate legal analyses for the council and parliament. in addition, it could contain precise guidelines on internal procedures within each institution, with a view to ensuring a coherent approach.
in writing. − the current rules on consumer rights are insufficient and a better strategy for strengthening the rights of vulnerable people is needed. the report suggests solutions for troubled sectors such as finance, transportation and the internet. in the transport sector, despite existing legislation, travellers still frequently encounter difficulties when their journey is cancelled or delayed, particularly for disabled people. i believe that the situation of vulnerable consumers, in particular those with reduced mobility and disabilities, should be taken into account in the planned review of eu legislation on travellers' rights. my view is that the development of such a strategy not only contributes to the social inclusion of these consumers, but also to the advancement towards a more just and tolerant society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because consumer protection is always an important topic of debate and for this, certain measures and regulations must be taken by the eu. in this regard, it is imperative that product safety standards exist and that measures are introduced to protect the rights and interests of the consumer, in particular against misleading advertising that gives the consumer an image of the product that is not in line with reality. i consider it appropriate to examine the sectors which present a higher degree of consumer vulnerability and which require a higher degree of protection. these include financial (the price and quality of the product must be presented in a fair and sufficiently clear way), food (controlling advertising so that it truly reflects the product and its benefits), transport or the internet. the consumer must also be given the means to enjoy fully the benefits of a liberalised market, allowing him to make an informed choice of the most attractive offers. lastly, in order to increase consumer confidence in the internal market, it is essential to ensure that there is adequate access to judicial and alternative remedies, the development of which is indispensable.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report concerning a strategy for strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers, because i believe it is essential to provide an adequate, and therefore updated, approach to consumer protection. this report does precisely this: it calls for an adaptation of the definition of vulnerable consumers which is synchronised with the changing nature of consumption in europe, not only regarding the goods that are consumed but also the evolving categories of consumers. given the extraordinary importance of the internal market for the european union’s economy and growth, a solid and trustworthy legal basis for consumer protection must imperatively be established. europe should provide itself with effective legislative means to avoid any form of abuse towards its citizens, in particular the most vulnerable ones. however, it is also fundamental that a right balance between individual freedom and consumer choices is struck. the sectors identified by the report, namely finance, food, transport, internet, free markets and access to justice, will have to be carefully regulated according to the driving principle of this dossier: consumers are susceptible to becoming vulnerable consumers over the course of their lives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on a strategy to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers and i appreciate that the observations in this report are essential and must be taken into account in future regulations as soon as possible. the fact that less than 50% of consumers feel informed and protected, according to the results of the latest eurobarometer, is particularly worrying. another figure mentioned in the report is also quite alarming - 70% of the websites of financial institutions and companies make fundamental errors about the products offered and the costs are presented in a misleading way. in these circumstances, the problems of vulnerable consumers must be subject to strict regulation and dissuasive penalties.
in writing. − i voted for the report on strengthening the rights of vulnerable consumers. market liberalisation has increased competition, which can be to the advantage of consumers if they are properly informed and can compare prices and choose their suppliers. the lack of transparency in key markets, including in the energy and transport sectors, can lead to increased difficulties for consumers, in particular in identifying the right tariff for their needs, switching suppliers and understanding the elements invoiced. i call on the commission and the member states to take appropriate measures to ensure that all consumers have access to clear, easy to understand and comparable information on tariffs, conditions and remedies and that they can easily switch suppliers. despite existing legislation, vulnerable consumers continue to face difficulties when travelling. we call on the commission and the member states to take the necessary measures to ensure a good supply of information and quick access to both complaint procedures and complaint-resolution mechanisms on travellers' rights. we ask that in these procedures the situation of vulnerable consumers, in particular persons with reduced mobility, be taken into account.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that binding rules on the issuance of euro coins are needed to guarantee greater transparency. as euro coins circulate throughout the euro area, their characteristics are a matter of common interest to the member states. i would point out that too many notes and coins in circulation could lead to inflation. and the ecb's role is to ensure stability. in this context, the european central bank must control the issuance of euro coins. i would stress that reducing the number of commemorative coins will increase their value, while simplifying administrative formalities. i also believe that member states should be able to issue collector coins, which are different from circulation coins.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the issue of euro coins. although the issuance of 1 and 2 euro banknotes would reduce the number of 1 and 2 euro coins in circulation, the use of such banknotes would also bring benefits to member states. the issue of 1 and 2 euro banknotes would increase the currency's maneuverability and acceptance and have a positive influence on european tourism without reducing the value of the other euro coins in circulation. the issuance of 1 and 2 euro banknotes would also increase the value of euro collector coins. the reduction in the number of commemorative coins in circulation simplifies administration and, in addition, increases the value of those commemorative coins by making them rarer.
in writing. − given the degree of circulation and use of the euro in the eu member states, and the clear definitions of the legal framework in which this process will take place, i support the issuance of commemorative and collector coins of 1 and 2 euros. i also believe that one way of optimising the currency is to print banknotes of the same value. the most important aspect that this change would serve is in relation to the maneuverability of these banknotes. often, tourists in a country that uses the euro find it difficult to automatically distinguish between the two because of the similarities in shape and color. we could help tourists in a practical way by this amendment, thus bringing an advantage to the member states.
in writing. − in this time of crisis, the role of the single market is crucial to europe's exit from economic stagnation. but whenever one or more member states fail to transpose eu rules into national law within the timeframe, a vacuum is created in the eu legal framework, leading to fragmentation. the economic interests of all member states may therefore be affected if a member state fails to fulfil its obligations. today, the internal market scoreboard shows that there is an urgent need for member states to step up their efforts to transpose eu rules. in the last reference period, 16 of the 27 member states failed to meet the target of a transposition deficit of no more than 1% set by eu heads of state or government in 2007. this means that, on average, 1.2% of the internal market directives whose transposition deadline has expired are currently not transposed into national law.
in writing. − i supported this report because it is a comprehensive and high-quality report, offering a number of useful recommendations for improving the governance of the single market and for improving the performance of single market support services. i firmly believe, as i have said on other occasions, that the relaunch of the single market is one of the solutions to overcoming the crisis and returning to growth. i would stress once again that the member states must take more seriously the transposition of legislation on the single market, legislation to which they have directly contributed. without proper implementation, even the most effective legislation will not produce the expected results. for this reason, i think we need an even more ambitious target than the 1% for the compliance deficit, 0.5%. it is simply a matter of political responsibility on the part of the member states and of respecting the word given in the council. finally, i fully support the report's recommendations on internal market support services. i believe that they need to be further developed and promoted more vigorously so that citizens and businesses are aware of their existence and use them more widely.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the scoreboard for the internal market. several instruments have been created to further encourage the completion of the single market and to measure the contributions of each member state to this objective. the single market scoreboard is one such tool that encourages member states to improve the quality and timeliness of transposition of single market directives. in its latest internal market scoreboard, the european commission highlights that malta has the best record on the timely transposition of single market directives, while the czech republic is at the bottom of the list, although making steady progress.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis has affected all sectors of our economy, destabilising businesses and the workforce and reducing the purchasing power of millions of european consumers. by allowing the negative effects to be absorbed, the single market is one of the eu's main assets in the face of this crisis and will help us to get out of the situation we are in. this is why constant and frequent monitoring of member states' progress through the scoreboard is one of the key factors in encouraging them to step up their efforts. i also believe that the scoreboard will speed up the transposition of the single market directives, both in terms of quality and timeliness, and we will thus benefit from all the benefits of the single market, including more growth and more jobs.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the internal market scoreboard because it is a tool that encourages member states to improve the transposition of single market directives in terms of quality and timeliness. the publication of the scoreboard contributes to strengthening the transposition of union legislation by providing objective and substantive data on the transposition and implementation of those rules by the member states. more precise information on the quality of transposition is needed to identify the causes of the lack of transposition of the legislation. 85 directives remain untransposed in at least one member state. two directives exceeded the transposition deadline by more than two years, thus directly breaching the 'zero tolerance' target set in 2007, and the number of incorrectly transposed directives remains at an average of 0.8%, despite the fact that in the single market act the commission stressed the need for a clear and well-established non-compliance policy. we call on the commission to support member states in the transposition of eu legislation by developing new tools such as transposition guidelines and a transposition assistance centre. completing the internal market by effectively transposing existing and new legislation can effectively combat the economic, financial and social crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on women in turkey in 2020. violence against women is one of turkey's most acute problems. every day, two or three women are killed by their husbands, friends, families or ex-husbands. the current legislation, law 4320, has shortcomings such as the lack of a mechanism to immediately remove domestic violence offenders from the vicinity of the woman who has been subjected to this violence. in addition, there is not always a consensus among police, prosecutors and judges as to the scope of the law and the punishment to be applied to the one who has resorted to violence. it is essential, in addition to amending the law to implement more effective and immediate remedies in cases involving domestic violence, to ensure a uniform interpretation and application of this law across all authorities involved in its implementation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on women in turkey in 2020. according to statistics, 39% of turkish women have suffered physical violence in their lifetime. i am concerned about the seriousness of violence against women, as well as the ineffectiveness of existing remedies and the leniency of the turkish authorities in punishing those who commit gender-based crimes. i welcome the increase in the participation of girls in primary education and the almost complete disappearance of the gender gap in the number of boys and girls in primary education. we call on the turkish government to take the necessary measures to reduce gender inequalities and to introduce additional measures to ensure that children attend school. i also welcome the increase in the number of female members of the turkish parliament from 9.1% in the 2007 elections to 14.3% following the 2011 elections. however, the percentage of turkish women in politics, in managerial positions in the public administration and in political parties remains low. we are calling for a new law on political parties and elections, to establish a mandatory quota system to ensure the equitable representation of women on the electoral rolls.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this decision because the amendment of the rules of procedure of the european parliament is necessary to ensure the implementation of the european citizens' initiative. in view of the entry into force of regulation 211/2011 on 1 april 2012 and the registration of the first citizens' initiatives, it was necessary to update the procedures of the european parliament in order to allow it to fulfil its specific role in this process, in particular in organising public hearings. in this context, i supported the appropriate involvement of the committee on petitions in the organisation and conduct of hearings, given that it ensures direct and constant contact with citizens, benefiting from considerable experience in communicating with them and in dealing with the issues they raise. i am glad that this position has been supported by the majority of members and the amendment on the automatic involvement of the committee on petitions in the organisation of hearings under rule 50 is in the final text. at the same time, i believe it is important that initiatives that do not register a sufficient number of signatures are not overlooked or ignored. i appreciate that the decision adopted provides a suitable solution in this respect.
in writing. − support citizens' participation in the legislative process through the european legislative initiative system. i support the involvement of the committee on petitions in the organisation of public hearings, as an associated committee to the main one. i believe that its experience in engaging with citizens brings value to the procedure for implementing the european legislative initiative. i ask the commission to ensure that the technical details for collecting signatures online do not constitute obstacles disproportionate to the need to ensure transparency and authenticity. the website for downloading the software required to collect online signatures is rather unfriendly and does not provide complete information for downloading. also, some of the programme specifications that are the responsibility of the organisers are mainly suitable for it specialists and people with experience in risk assessment. i therefore ask the commission to take the necessary measures, such as a video tutorial or a detailed guide to bringing the signature collection programme into line, so that european citizens can make use of this legislative initiative successfully.
in writing. − the european citizens' initiative is one of the most important measures included in the treaty of lisbon, which gives citizens the power to change the agenda for debates in the community institutions. this effort may then be translated into a change in eu law in the relevant sectoral policy areas. the european parliament plays a major role in supporting citizens' initiatives by organising public debates on the topics considered eligible, in collaboration with the relevant committees and with the participation of representatives of the other european institutions. i welcome the proposal that the vice-president responsible for citizens' initiatives should participate in these hearings, with the aim of giving more legitimacy to citizens' action, especially as parliament is the only institution directly elected by citizens. i believe that through these debates we will increase the chances of citizens' proposals being translated into legislation, through contact with meps in the specialised committees, which play a key role in european policy-making. moreover, the reconsideration of the role of the parliament's committee on petitions, which examines initiatives that could not be presented to the european commission due to procedural issues but which are worth pursuing, is welcomed.
in writing. − i voted for the amendment of the rules of procedure of the european parliament as regards the implementation of the european citizens' initiative. the citizens' initiative is a powerful tool available to citizens, which aims to give them the same rights of political initiative as those already enjoyed by the council of the european union and the european parliament. the aim of the initiative is to provide citizens with a means of bringing to the attention of the european institutions concrete issues that they consider important and that they consider to be lacking in attention or support. the european parliament will be able to contribute to these objectives by using all the means at its disposal to support the citizens' initiatives considered eligible, in particular by organising public hearings. to this end, it is necessary to amend the rules of procedure of the european parliament, in particular the article on public hearings on citizens' initiatives and the article on the citizens' initiative, we also consider it necessary to establish a single contact point at the european parliament with which citizens, representative associations and civil society can get in touch on issues relating to european citizens' initiatives. we call for appropriate measures at parliament level to ensure the visibility of public hearings on citizens' initiatives.
mr president, dear commissioners, let me remind you that we asked for discipline and for rules to be respected, and we ended up with a marathon for austerity. now we fear that no competitor will be crossing the finishing line, and the european supporters are steadily decreasing. meanwhile, the rest of the world never shared our solutions. preaching that growth is a direct consequence of restorative measures appears ridiculous and only creates more uncertainty amongst citizens and on the market. growth should have always been at the core of each and every eu policy, or was this not the case? this informal summit should dig through this growth mantra and focus on jobs to get the economy moving. however, simply declaring that we need jobs and investment is so obvious that it has become a cliché. the question is: do we want to invest our own profit or do we want europe to be attractive to outside players? because if we decide later, we need to establish and guarantee a stable and harmonised regulatory framework across member states and put a stop to the uneven competition between public and private financing.
the european union was founded on the stability and growth pact. both of the issues discussed today are mentioned, fiscal stability and economic growth. unfortunately, this pact was not respected and budgetary imbalances led to austerity measures. so clearly, there is no sustainable economic growth without financial stability. at the same time, austerity measures must be accompanied by measures to boost economic growth. the previous economic recovery programmes must be followed up with concrete measures. the commission should propose programmes to support smes, including loan guarantees or 'venture capital' funds. the necessary amounts may be secured by redirecting funds not allocated or not distributed to date. funds not absorbed for various reasons should not be collected and returned to the member states but redistributed for programmes to support the economy. the union budget is 95% directed towards investment and is a generator of growth and jobs. it is clear that european policies and the european budget are the instruments through which the union can intervene to support the economy. common policies 2014-2020 regulations should contain as many measures for growth and jobs as possible. the 2014-2020 budget must be approved as soon as possible so that member states can design their national policies. a good idea would be to approve, as a first step, chapter 1 of the mff which deals with cohesion, transport, education, research and innovation, ict, jobs. we need to promote new financial instruments such as, for example, project bonds. i think it would be a great step forward if we could reach an agreement on own resources, an agreement which would reduce the pressure on national contributions.
in writing. the eu is at a crossroads and needs bold decisions. austerity, as the only solution to the crisis, has proved a failure. states that have relied solely on austerity have made their situation worse, and the suffering of their citizens is even greater. we need to get back to growth together. this is no time to flaunt our differences and to confine ourselves to national egoism. it takes solidarity and vision. reducing development disparities between european countries can be an important driver of future economic growth. failure to act in this direction will have higher costs than a return to growth. european citizens cannot be blamed for their lack of desire to work, given that bad policy decisions have destroyed jobs. we have to relearn how to produce the goods and services we need.
in writing. the informal eu summit on 23 may is devoted to investment, growth and job creation. at this meeting, heads of state or government should identify and mobilise new policies to support economic growth in the eu. the summit should pay particular attention to measures to create new jobs, especially for young people, whose unemployment rate has exceeded 20%. as regards the structural funds, they should focus on increasing the competitiveness of the member states and increasing economic and social cohesion. member states with an unsatisfactory absorption rate should be supported to accelerate the use of the structural funds in areas and projects that contribute to job creation. given that industrial production has declined in many member states in recent years, with dramatic effects on jobs across europe, i believe that the eu should make better use of strategic partnerships with third countries to secure its raw materials and to support industrial production in the eu, exports and the eu's economic interests. we ask that the eib focus on supporting smes and infrastructure projects, particularly in the transport and energy sectors.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, on behalf of my colleague ms damanaki, i would like to thank mr romeva for the work he has done on this report, and i am also very pleased to see the strong support from the fisheries committee on the substance of this important proposal. the rapporteur is absolutely right: the recovery of bluefin tuna is a very important issue because this is the most important species covered by the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) and currently the only one subject to a multi-annual recovery plan. the eu has been a leading force behind this multi-annual recovery plan, and the aim of the commission’s proposal is to transpose into eu law a recommendation adopted in the iccat framework. the recommendation sets out a number of management measures to support the recovery of bluefin tuna. these measures were adopted by iccat as early as november 2010, and have been in force since june 2011. a week ago, and for the second time, we entered a fishing season without such management measures being transposed into eu law. this could jeopardise the uniform application of the measures within the eu and make them more difficult to enforce vis-à-vis individuals. it is therefore vital that we transpose iccat measures into eu law without delay. not doing so would certainly set us back from a conservation standpoint, and it would also seriously undermine the credibility of the eu in iccat and internationally. i therefore warmly welcome both co-legislators’ efforts to conclude this matter rapidly. the commission can accept the compromise text agreed in the last trialogue but it will make a declaration that this is without prejudice to its future position as regards recourse to implementing acts for the effective transposition of international conservation and management measures adopted by regional fisheries management organisations. i would like, once again, to thank the rapporteur and the fisheries committee for their work, and i am looking forward to the debate.
reporting for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. − today we have the opportunity to discuss one of the most concrete risks to food security: the major threats to global fish stocks. fish is essential to a healthy diet, being one of the most recommended sources of animal protein. this vital resource is being decimated by unsustainable exploitation through fishing practices that do not take into account long-term food security, but also by abuses linked to illegal fishing. i would like to thank the rapporteur for his efforts to strengthen the rules on bluefin tuna fishing. at the same time, i am disappointed that his amendments and our similar amendments in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety have not received sufficient support. the measures provided for in the new international agreement will ensure better implementation and enforcement of existing rules. it's a very important step. i would like to thank those who made it possible for these improvements to come into effect before the start of the new season, but reality clearly shows that these measures will not be enough. future agreements will have to be much more ambitious if we are really to protect the marine environment and the healthy food source it provides.
in writing. i welcome the fact that the recommendation of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) has already been adopted at international level. i believe that iccat could do more to adapt to the current situation in fisheries. true, we can already see some improvements in the bluefin tuna situation in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean, but important steps must be taken now. i very much appreciate the rapporteur's position that the union should not wait for iccat initiatives but should take firm precautionary measures on its own, in line with the united nations fish stocks agreement. the idea of declaring the main spawning grounds for bluefin tuna in the mediterranean sea, which are under eu jurisdiction, as closed zones or reserves - thus prohibiting fishermen from entering these areas during the breeding season - is welcome. i am aware that the eu not only sets very strict regulations in this area, but also spends impressive sums of money to comply with these rules. i am glad that we have made a significant contribution to the conservation of the bluefin tuna, but i believe that we can do even more than that!
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, let me start with congratulations and thanks to the rapporteur. her job was not easy because a wide range of views were incorporated into amendments and compromise amendments, but ultimately – and i speak on behalf of the ppe – we find most of our ideas in this report. the word ‘reciprocity’ was the key word used by everybody, and there is only one possible sense of that word: it refers to the fact that the european union is open, and that china should be open and should reciprocate the openness of the european union. that much is clear. several controversial issues for us are addressed in the report, notably the questions of the public procurement market, joint ventures and the possibility for foreign companies to have a presence on the chinese market. of course, the matter of intellectual property rights is one of the hot potatoes of the moment, but that is an evergreen in eu-china relations. i welcome the crystal clear statement made here a few minutes ago by commissioner reding, who stated that eu recognition of market economy status depends on china itself. i think that is, or should be, the position of this house too, and the commission should ensure that it is translated into reality. the institutional framework for eu-china relations requires attention. we have a multiplicity of redundant institutional frameworks, so let us take care of that. let us speak with one european union voice in our relations with china, and also with the other brics. in conclusion, i think that the principle of reciprocity will bring balance to our relations.
in paragraph 7 of the report under debate there is a reference to agriculture, which i would describe as at least superficial. the text of the report includes china's criticism of agricultural subsidies for european farmers and the complex system of agricultural customs duties. i think the report should also have noted that the european agricultural policy has been fully subject to the rules of the world trade organisation since 1995, and that by decoupling and focusing on rural development measures, the european union has managed to transfer 88% of the aid granted to the wto's green box. eu producers are obliged to respect the highest standards of quality, product hygiene and the environment. this must be taken into account whenever parliament refers to our agricultural subsidies and the positions of our trading partners on them. finally, i believe that the opinion of the committee on agriculture on the subject of this report would have been useful and would have brought important elements into the debate.
the european union suffers from a huge trade deficit with china, which has deepened over time, reaching eur 169 billion in 2010. to reduce this deficit drastically and to restore the eu-china trade relationship to a level playing field, the chinese partner needs to solve a number of problems. these include: 1. transparency, to know exactly how much china has been involved in the economies of the member states; 2. fair market access for european firms; 3. a change in chinese policy on goods and the yuan which is undervalued and non-convertible and also 4. respect for intellectual property rights. i also call on the chinese authorities to respect in good faith and in practice the civil, political and labour rights of its citizens.
the economic and trade partnership with china is very important, but it needs to be balanced to bring full benefits to both sides. i therefore support the report's emphasis on increasing reciprocity as the main solution to economic imbalances. i also appreciate that we need to support european companies even more to have fair access to the chinese market. i would point out that romania pays particular attention to intensifying economic cooperation with china, especially in areas such as cross-border infrastructure, energy, agriculture or tourism. in 2011, bilateral trade reached a total value of usd 4.2 billion, and the volume of romanian exports to china was 36% higher than in 2010, the growth rate exceeding that of imports.
in writing. the european union is the main market for exports from china. between 2009 and 2010 alone, they increased by 39.5%. on the other hand, china is the eu's second largest trading partner. in addition, in the current context of the sovereign debt crisis, china has played an important role through its investments in infrastructure programmes in greece and its willingness to provide financial support to spain and portugal. so we can no longer speak of an emerging economy, but of a global economic actor. i therefore believe that the european strategy on china needs to be re-examined in order to synthesise both the opportunities offered by china's rapid rise internationally and the economic challenges it entails. it is time to consolidate a partnership based on mutual benefits and, by implication, to abandon the logic of competition. at the same time, the chinese economy does not yet meet the criteria of a market economy, which makes it difficult for european operators to operate on the chinese market. i therefore consider that the world trade organisation is the institutional forum through which this situation can be remedied.
trade agreements concluded by the eu with other countries are an important tool for strengthening economic relations. they must also support democratic developments, sustainable development and respect for human rights. european citizens have expectations in this area. they are becoming more and more careful about the source of the products they use and how they are made. as regards colombia and peru, the trade agreement must be able to produce a qualitative change in areas such as economic growth and social cohesion. i also invite the commission to present the measures envisaged to ensure the positive and lasting impact of union action in the partner countries. i would particularly like to know whether specific action has been taken to protect the rights of women and children.
the questions put by the authors are very timely and relevant, but i would add one more question: how does the commission intend to encourage the reduction of child labour in agriculture in the two countries? according to the latest statistics available, more than two million children between the ages of 6 and 14 are used for various kinds of labor in peru, or 29 percent of the total number of children in this age group. 70% of these, 1.4 million children, work in agriculture. colombia has also seen a sharp increase in the amount of child labor, with at least one million children employed in 2009, most of them in agriculture. this issue should therefore be on the agenda of official talks with the two states alongside, of course, the other issues raised here.
i will support the introduction of this financial transaction tax, even though, as my colleagues have pointed out, there are still issues to be clarified and it would be good if it were introduced in a global way, all member states accepting this and also not being pushed on customers by the financial sector. what has happened in the last few days, when we learned that one of the largest investment banks in the world has again told us, frankly, that it has billions of dollars in losses from the very same financial transactions that caused this crisis that we're in, makes us think that some of the major players in the financial sector have actually learned nothing from this crisis and want to continue to do business as usual. that's why i think a tax like this, especially on speculative financial transactions, is welcome.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i appreciate the opportunity to reply to some of the remarks that have been made. i think it is quite important for the regulation to be legally watertight. for instance, it is crucial to avoid the possibility of the authority of the committee being challenged in the middle of the inquiry. for this reason, we need to work together to make sure that all the provisions are legally justified and completely valid. i believe that it is in all our interests. mrs jäätteenmäki and several other speakers referred to the issue of the disclosure of confidential information. i believe that this is one topic on which we need to work further to find a good solution for all three institutions. i also very much appreciate mr häfner’s comment. he clearly highlighted the importance of having clear rules with regard to such sensitive areas as committees of inquiry. i would very much like to reiterate the point made by mr duff, who highlighted the importance of overcoming the issue of unequal treatment between national and european civil servants. i hope that with a good cooperative approach to this issue we will find a solution that is acceptable to all three institutions.
president of the council. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. first of all, let me thank you for a very good debate and for the opportunity to discuss this matter with the european parliament today. i know that this is a matter of great importance to parliament, and i would therefore like to say again that the council and the danish presidency fully respect parliament's right of initiative in this matter. i look forward to the european parliament's vote on mr martin's report. the danish presidency will examine very closely the european parliament's proposals and we will do our best to create a results-oriented process in the forthcoming interinstitutional negotiations. the presidency will work hard to find compromises that are satisfactory to parliament, the commission and the council. in this connection i would like to thank mr martin for his good cooperation and his constructive approach to the negotiations. the danish presidency greatly appreciates the flexibility and willingness to negotiate which mr martin has shown. i am convinced that we can find a solution in cooperation with commissioner šefčovič and agree on a legal basis for the work of the committees of inquiry. it is important that we allow the committees of inquiry to work as efficiently as possible, but we must also ensure that parliament's committees of inquiry work in accordance with the provisions of the treaty and respect the roles of the institutions. in this context, i look forward to continuing to work with this parliament, with the commission and in the council.
the day before yesterday, in albania, a country with institutional relations with the european union, a road accident took the lives of 14 people. a bus plunged into a ravine, killing 14 people and leaving 18 others in critical condition. please use this opportunity to convey our sympathy and solidarity to the families and also our message of condolence and solidarity with the authorities and the albanian people.
i don't know whether this tax will be applied or not in the future, but i do know that policies that have privileged discrimination and privilege favoring the banking system have brought this debate to parliament. i believe that this tax cannot be effective unless it is applied at eu level and especially at global level, because if we succeed in applying it partially, it will only be reflected in the pockets of consumers. i agree that action must be taken against those who have caused this economic disaster, but i think we cannot do that unless we think about european banks no longer being registered in tax havens and repatriating their profits to these havens, being exempt from clear taxation on profits and dividends. i think this is the solution. i agree that we need clear, strict and united regulation for european banks, we need a new glass-steagall act, but in my view this tax will not be effective. that is why i voted against it.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider it to be a fair reflection of the relationship between china and the european union, but also a fair reflection of the situation of the european union vis-à-vis china; because if we have to admit one thing, it is that of a certain paradoxical dependence of the european union on china, and i am referring to the situation of public debt. i think that, in an emergency, the european union is obliged to assess how much of the european public debt is in the hands of china and to start a new negotiation with china because relations are regulated by an old agreement, the one from 1985. i think the solution is a strategic partnership with china, and at the same time this report allows us to ask ourselves two more questions: why we have failed in africa and latin america and china is starting to succeed, and what are the solutions to try to redress this imbalance in favour of the european union because, we have to admit, an emerging power and a traditional power cannot be reconciled at the moment.
i voted for this regulation because it will allow for a proper reflection of the new institutional balance resulting from the treaty of lisbon. by clearly defining the modalities for exercising the right of inquiry, parliament will strengthen its role of democratic control. to this end, it is necessary to ensure that the precise delimitation of competences is respected, while respecting the principles of proportionality and utility. i draw your attention to paragraph 5, which distinguishes between investigations of a political nature and those of a judicial nature. i think it is very important that the work of parliament does not interfere with legal mechanisms. i stress the need to strike a balance between the transparency of parliament's work and the protection of the privacy or vital interests of the member states. i also support the provisions on the possibility of petitioning against a report of a committee of inquiry.
in writing. − since intensive bluefin tuna fishing has led to massive declines in fish stocks, as evidenced by several independent assessments, it is imperative that the european authorities adopt meaningful conservation policies and implement effective control procedures. fisheries remains one of the areas on which the european economy and a significant number of workers in the member states depend, and ensuring the premises of sustainable development requires the adoption of measures that offer prospects for growth and long-term stability. at the same time, it is important that the european institutions clearly and consistently undertake the imperatives of biodiversity conservation, as reflected in union policy documents such as the europe 2020 strategy. i support the adoption of the report as a strong signal from the european union and its institutions to the imperatives of protecting the environment and restoring stocks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because it requires rapid and concrete measures, as well as a comprehensive multiannual strategy, to ensure the recovery of bluefin tuna stocks in the eastern atlantic and the mediterranean. this species is currently threatened, both by overfishing and by the fishing methods and practices used. in this context, the existing regulations need to be complemented by detailed provisions addressing the legislative gaps on concrete issues such as caging. the european union has an important role to play in this process, but measures taken at european level alone will have only a limited impact if they are not followed by similar measures at international level. i therefore encourage european states to support stricter regulations within iccat. i also believe that the eu must be involved in promoting sound and sustainable management of bluefin tuna stocks, upholding these principles in relation to other important players in this sector, in particular japan. they also stress the importance of control activities to ensure compliance with existing legislation and to combat illegal fishing.
in writing. − the tuna stock has been declining for over ten years and is likely to disappear completely unless action is taken to restore the stock. to manage this decline, 64 measures have been adopted over the last 20 years, 13 of which are still in force. the recovery plan was first adopted in 2006 and subsequently amended in 2008, 2009 and 2010. the eastern bluefin tuna fishery is currently the most heavily regulated fishery in the eu and probably among the most heavily regulated fisheries in the world. the dramatic decline in tuna is mainly attributed to huge demand from the fish market, illegal fishing and fishing out of season.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 302/2009 on a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean. the eu must declare those regions as closed zones or bluefin tuna reserves and prohibit access to fishermen during the breeding season. such a measure would also be in line with eu environmental legislation (emcdda, natura 2000, etc.). the eu could make an important contribution to the conservation of bluefin tuna, which would significantly increase the likelihood of recovery of the stock. a unilateral eu declaration of closure of areas during spawning could apply to vessels flying an eu flag in all six areas and to vessels flying the flag of a third country only in waters under eu jurisdiction (in zones 1, 2 and 3). the fact that the eu has 56% of the tac for bluefin tuna means that the temptation to leave the eu register to fish in these waters would be minimal.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation concerning a multiannual recovery plan for bluefin tuna in the eastern atlantic and mediterranean, because i truly believe that the european union needed to urgently comply with the most recent international standards in tuna catching. the report, by adopting the necessary amendments to the iccat recovery plan, improves the tuna fishing practice in europe, by increasing the protection of bluefin tuna, which risks disappearing from our seas. fish is a fundamental resource for our economy and the biodiversity of our seas is of undisputable value. a careful and well-tuned regulation of fishing practices and environmental protection is therefore essential. i believe this report will have a very positive impact in the fishery sector, by forbidding malpractices, overfishing and illegal catches.
in writing. − the recommendation of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas is binding on the union and must therefore be transposed into european union law. it provides for a further reduction in the total allowable catch, the strengthening of measures to reduce fishing capacity and the intensification of control measures, in particular as regards transfer and caging operations. the objective of the measures to reduce fishing capacity is to ensure the effectiveness of the bluefin tuna recovery plan with a view to achieving a biomass corresponding to maximum sustainable yield of at least 60% by 2022. i believe that for the next period a timetable is needed for adjusting the capacity of each member state so that all member states eliminate entirely the difference between their fishing capacity and their own fishing capacity in proportion to the quota allocated, applicable both to fishing vessels and to traps.
in writing. − the transposition into eu law of the 2010 recommendation of the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas, to which the eu is a contracting party, is necessary and urgent, given the need to supplement measures to protect bluefin tuna. we also have to take into account that not only bluefin tuna is endangered, but five of the eight sub-species of bluefin tuna, such as southern bluefin tuna or whitefin tuna.
in writing. − i voted for this report, although not without some reservations. it is regrettable that the text does not represent a significant improvement on the commission’s proposal, and i am not convinced that it is consistent with the eu’s obligation, as laid down in the marine framework strategy directive, to achieve good environmental status by 2020. on the plus side, the new rules will come into effect before the next fishing season. for the long term, however, a much greater level of ambition is needed if we are to save our fish stocks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the consequences of major ecological disasters demonstrate the need to accelerate the introduction of double hull requirements or equivalent design standards for single hull tankers. i believe that adequate protection must be ensured in the event of accidents, avoiding the disastrous effects of oil spills on water, soil, flora and marine fauna. at the same time, it is important to respect the specific competences of each european institution when defining regulations in this area. i support the position of the rapporteur, who has amended the commission proposal to reflect the position of the european parliament on delegated acts. in this context, i draw attention to amendment no 1, which mentions the importance of the commission organising appropriate consultations, including at expert level, during its preparatory work, but also recommends that all relevant documents be sent to the european parliament and the council.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the acceleration of the introduction of double hull requirements or equivalent design standards for single hull tankers. i consider this subject to be particularly important in view of the erika cases of 1999 and the le prestige case of 2002, and in view of the fact that oil tanker oil spills are major ecological disasters for both marine fauna and flora and for tourism in coastal areas. the objective of this regulation is to reduce the risks of accidental pollution of european waters through the accelerated introduction of double hulls. in single-hull vessels, the oil in the loading tanks is separated from the seawater only by a metal plate that forms the bottom and walls of the tanks. if this metal plate is damaged by collision or failure, the contents of the cargo tanks risk spilling into the sea and causing major pollution. an effective means of avoiding this risk is to cover the loading tanks with another inner metal plate, at a sufficient distance from the outer plate. such a 'double hull' design protects the loading tanks against damage and thus reduces the risk of pollution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the provisions of the new protocol with mozambique will allow for improved management of fisheries in the region and the continued presence of the european fleet in the waters of the indian ocean. i believe that the partnership agreement will provide the appropriate framework for increasing the sustainability and good governance of the fisheries sector by mozambique. i would, however, ask the commission to monitor closely the way in which these provisions are implemented, to ensure responsible and rational fishing practices, as well as the other concrete aspects of the conditionality clauses for the annual payments, including respect for human rights. i welcome the inclusion in the agreement of specific measures for the employment of mozambican seamen. this will have a positive impact on the local economy. i also point out that the new partnership framework will allow cooperation to be intensified not only in the economic field but also in the scientific and technical field, thus enabling the fisheries sector to develop to the benefit of both parties.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has affected the member states of the european union and reduced the living standards of a significant number of eu citizens. it can also be seen that several features of international markets, such as the increase in the volume of financial transactions, the preference for short-term and high-risk operations, together with the development of high-frequency automated transactions, are relevant to the transformation of the financial system into a highly volatile sector prone to periodic crises. the report also calls for the introduction of a european tax on financial transactions, which would generate new revenue sources of around eur 57 billion, and systematically discourage high-risk and speculative transactions, which played a major role in triggering the current financial crisis. the introduction of the tax, together with the implementation of an effective supervisory system, may lead, in the medium and long term, to a reorientation of the trading system towards productive and sustainable investments for european economies.
in writing. − i voted against this report because i do not believe that a financial transaction tax would be effective unless it was applied at eu level. such a fee, applied correctly at global level, could represent an important source of revenue, allowing the financial sector to contribute equitably to the costs of the crisis. otherwise, however, it would affect competitiveness and have negative consequences, which would be felt first and foremost by citizens. we need to take action to remedy the effects of the economic downturn and to finance sustainable growth and development. but i don't think that a financial transaction tax would have the desired effect. i stress that the tax should not have any negative consequences on the banking system. i also draw attention to the fact that the risk of relocating investments to less transparent areas should be considered.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a council directive on the common system of financial transaction tax and amending directive 2008/7/ec. this tax could generate significant new revenue sources - according to recent estimates, up to €57 billion if implemented at eu level. it can shift the burden to activities with negative externalities, such as high-frequency financial transactions and highly speculative financial transactions, thus ensuring a fairer distribution of the tax burden. it can also become a deterrent to speculative transactions involving very high and damaging borrowing rates, thus contributing, together with appropriate regulation and supervision, to stabilising markets and reorienting the sector towards productive long-term investment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the financial transaction tax because i believe that this initiative is of particular importance in the context of the financial crisis the european union is going through. the introduction of the tax proposed by the american economist james tobin will stabilize the financial sector and channel it into long-term financing of the real economy, reducing the incidence of speculation. the commission notes that the commission has not provided any evidence that the financial sector would have been able to recover the aid from the beneficiaries. i do not share the concerns that some governments have expressed regarding the alleged negative impact of the tax on the business of companies. the european union is too important a market for the financial sector to be able to afford to significantly reduce its activity here. i would also like to stress that if the amounts generated by this levy were administered at european union level, they could be used to finance european public policies and goods.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council directive on a common system of financial transaction tax (ftt) because i believe it could represent an important tool for the european union in tackling the economic crisis which has been heavily affecting the eu. the ftt may improve the level of security for financial activities, stop the deviations resulting from financial speculation and, at the same time, increase the financial sector’s contribution to the economic recovery of the union, which has so far only been loaded onto people’s backs through austerity measures and excessive taxation. i also positively welcome the derogation granted by the proposal to pension funds which would see the tax waived on their transactions. pension funds constitute, in fact, a very delicate field, differing by their very nature from the financial sector’s other activities: they deserved to have special treatment. i believe that the ftt will be able to grant the eu the necessary stability and resilience in financial activities, producing more certainty for investors, protecting the system from speculators and granting the eu new resources to be redirected to the real economy of our countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on the common system of financial transaction tax (ftt) and amending directive 2008/7/ec. in order to prevent distortions that may be generated by measures adopted unilaterally by member states, taking into account the very high mobility of most of the relevant financial transactions, and to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, it is important that the fundamental elements of the ftt applied in the member states be harmonised and that the directive be applied at union level. the directive does not address the issue of the management of ftt revenues. i consider that part of the revenue from the ftt could be administered at union level, either as part of its own resources or in direct connection with specific union policies and public goods. the use of part of the revenue from the ftt as union own resources would reduce national contributions to the union budget and therefore free up funds from national budgets for other uses. i voted against amendment no 15, which exempts from the application of the directive investment managers of pension funds or institutions for occupational retirement provision, and entities set up to make investments for such funds or institutions.
in writing. − with developed markets on the verge of recession, china has become the outlet for many european exporters. in 2010, they exported goods and services worth around eur 113,1 billion to china. europe mainly exports transport machinery and equipment (more than 60% of eu exports, according to 2010 data), chemicals and raw materials. at the same time, imports from china are consumer goods, including clothing, office equipment and telecommunications. i believe that access for european companies to the chinese market must be under the same conditions as access for chinese companies to the european market. for good cooperation, the safeguards against access to the chinese market by european companies should be removed, including the authorisation system, direct aid and, last but not least, the barriers to public procurement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report concerning the trade relations between the european union and china because i truly believe that, given the rising role of china in international trade relations, measures are urgently needed in order to guarantee an equal legal ground and mutual respect for international trading rules. china joined the wto in 2001 and is the world’s leading exporter of goods. however, china keeps on operating not in full compliance to international standards. therefore, given its role and its significant global impact, such practices create serious imbalances in the economic system, and for this reason have to be taken into consideration and dealt with carefully. this report, by calling on the commission to negotiate an ambitious and balanced eu-china investment agreement, able to create a better environment for eu investors in china, and to improve the transparency regarding governance of chinese companies which invest within the eu, will represent an important starting point for an improved and more trustful trade relation with china, which most certainly is a crucial partner for the european union and its member states.
in writing. − from the data provided by the rapporteur, the undeniable conclusion is that there is an imbalance in trade between china and the eu. the main question that needs our attention is: 'is china proving to be an unfair competitor to the eu?' the social and economic growth that this country has enjoyed in recent years is linked to business and especially to exports to member countries. given the percentages of this increase, it is vital that europe maintains an open dialogue with china and raises the issue of restrictions on entry to the chinese market again, because the need to work together is very important for both partners, and china must not ignore this truth. one problem that has not diminished is that of all counterfeit goods entering the eu. the quality of these products is poor, they are counterfeits of reputable brands, and consumers can be easily deceived. in order not to mislead citizens, i believe that we must encourage the purchase of products manufactured in the territory of the member states, thus ensuring that consumers comply with the rules on their manufacture and encouraging reindustrialisation and research policies in the union.
in writing. − trade between the eu and china is at an impressive level - one billion euro a day. the eu is china's main trading partner and china is the eu's main supplier of manufactured goods. in these circumstances, as president barroso has said, the eu-china partnership is one of the most important in the world. the report voted today is relevant to the problems in trade relations between the two partners. i voted in favour of this report; however, i regret that it does not focus on the problems of agricultural trade and does not take into account the special situation of european farmers, who are obliged to respect the highest quality standards in the world.
in writing. - i voted for the european parliament resolution on eu-china trade relations because i believe that a balanced agreement between the eu and china on trade relations is needed. i regret the insufficient protection of intellectual property rights in china, as well as the lack of concrete means available to european businesses, especially smes, to effectively combat infringements of intellectual property rights. the commission and the member states are invited to defend intellectual property rights more firmly in all multilateral organisations to which china belongs (wto, world health organisation and world intellectual property organisation). i also urge the commission and the member states to step up customs cooperation between the eu and china on the seizure of counterfeit goods and to simplify customs procedures. we call on the commission and the member states to cooperate more closely with third countries on copyright and licensing issues. i urge the commission to negotiate an ambitious and balanced eu-china agreement aimed at creating a better environment for european investors in china and guaranteeing transparency in the governance of chinese companies investing in the eu, while increasing the level of mutual capital flows.
in writing. − i support the proposal for a regulation on the detailed arrangements for the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry. this new legal framework aims to improve the functioning and effectiveness of committees of inquiry by providing them with the means to carry out their task of examining alleged breaches of union law and cases of maladministration. i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this proposal for a european parliament regulation on the detailed arrangements for the exercise of the european parliament's right of inquiry and repealing decision 95/167/ec, euratom, ecsc of the european parliament, the council and the commission. the treaty of lisbon created the conditions for a renewed and stronger institutional balance within the union, allowing its institutions to function more efficiently, more openly and in a more democratic way; in this context, the european parliament's powers of political control have been strengthened and extended. therefore, in accordance with national parliamentary practice and the requirements of the treaty on european union, the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the treaty establishing the european atomic energy community, the committees of inquiry of the european parliament should be strengthened by conferring on them specific, real and clearly delimited powers which are more in line with its powers and political status, while respecting the principle of proportionality as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union. the powers of committees of inquiry, which are exceptional instruments of political control, should not prejudice the responsibilities of other institutions.
in writing. − believing that this proposal for a regulation respects the doctrine of the separation of powers in the state, i support the reform of the european parliament's right of inquiry. we need these changes in the regulation because experience has shown us that, although parliament can set up committees of inquiry, they can face many restrictions in the course of an inquiry. the increased power of these committees does not pose a risk to the institutions or the persons under investigation, the code of procedure being also clarified by the rapporteur. although parliament has the power to impose sanctions, it must be made clear that its main purpose is to investigate any type of situation that would prove to be detrimental to the eu and its citizens. by taking a broad view of any irregularities that may arise, we will have the chance to improve the current regulation with the desire to move towards an optimal functioning of the eu legal systems.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the detailed arrangements for the exercise of parliament's right of inquiry. the treaty of lisbon has created the conditions for a renewed and stronger institutional balance within the union, allowing its institutions to function more efficiently, more openly and in a more democratic way. in this context, the european parliament's powers of political control have been strengthened and extended. in accordance with national parliamentary practice and the requirements of the treaties (teu, tfeu and euratom), the committees of inquiry of the european parliament should be strengthened by conferring on them specific, real and clearly defined powers, which are more in line with its powers and political status, while respecting the principle of proportionality. the regulation lays down detailed rules for the exercise of the right of the european parliament to investigate, in the context of its tasks, without prejudice to the powers conferred by the treaties on other institutions or bodies, alleged contraventions of the rule of law or maladministration in the application of union law by a union institution or body, by a public administrative body of a member state or by any person empowered by the union to implement union law.
i begin by condemning the bombing of the northern part of south sudan, bombing conducted on monday and tuesday by sudan. for a moment i thought that the information that came in on monday would not be confirmed, but i saw that the information was confirmed and i think that in this case, we can talk about a new challenge from sudan. it's a shocking gesture, i think, which comes just days after thabo mbeki announced that the leaders of the two countries had expressed their desire to return to the negotiating table. the recent attacks confirm, i think, that sudan's strategy is to stall. i also think that president al-bashir is probably not willing to negotiate a road map to end the conflict at this point. that is why i encourage the african union negotiator and the panel he leads to accelerate the negotiations with sudan and work to prevent the escalation of a new war in the sudanese zone. i would like to end by paying tribute to the united nations interim force in abyei for its efforts to keep the peace in the area. i hope that the mandate of this force which expired yesterday will be extended, considering the deteriorating situation in the area. i'm calling on the united nations to increase the number of troops and police in the force to be able to respond to a crisis that seems to me imminent.
a conflict between sudan and south sudan would affect regional stability as well as the international economy. the union must continue to engage in efforts to de-escalate the situation in accordance with the un roadmap. additional measures are also needed to help the population. hundreds of thousands of people are already suffering the consequences of the crisis between the two countries. for example, the number of refugees in the yida camp has doubled in the last two months. i would like to draw particular attention to the situation in the nuba mountains, where the sudanese regime does not allow access even for the delivery of humanitarian aid. un agencies warn that the area is on the brink of catastrophe due to a lack of food and vaccine doses for children. i stress the need to negotiate humanitarian corridors to provide assistance to the population.
guinea-bissau has been affected by many years of instability in a context of corruption, drug trafficking and violence, and the military coup that disrupted the electoral process has aggravated the situation. for the moment, avoiding violence is a priority, which is why it is positive that a national agreement has been signed to exit the political crisis, as well as the transfer of power to civilians. but the ultimate goal must remain the restoration of constitutional rule and the beginning of a genuine democratic transition. the solidarity of the international community is essential to this end. i welcome the unanimous adoption of resolution 2048 by the un security council. i also appreciate the constructive role played by ecowas, which condemned the coup and sent a peacekeeping force last week. i call on the high representative to continue to work closely with the west african regional organisation.
over the past 12 years, we have seen both a significant increase in global commodity prices and worrying volatility. in the second half of 2010, 44 million people were pushed into poverty by rising food prices. these phenomena are caused not only by the scarcity of resources but also by their inefficient allocation or by speculation in commodity markets. in this context, the european union must work towards the development of a global system for the use and allocation of world resources and i therefore ask the european executive to seek to include environmental standards and the principle of fair trade on the agenda of the world trade organisation. continuing efforts to reduce and eliminate tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade in green goods and services is also an important step towards more efficient use of resources. last but not least, i would like to remind you that speculation in raw materials directly affects the lives of millions of people, causing poverty and hunger. i therefore consider it imperative that this practice be prohibited as a matter of urgency.
the answer to the resource efficiency challenges facing our society cannot be too simple or too easy to identify. i would therefore like to congratulate the rapporteur, the shadow rapporteur and all those who have contributed to the completion of this report. what is important now is that we know exactly what we have to do, we know where we want to go, it remains to mobilize to achieve our proposed objectives in a timely manner. there's a lot more to be done at the national and local levels. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not disposed of in a manner that would be contrary to the principle of subsidiarity. there are member states that have completely eliminated landfilling of municipal waste, such as germany and the netherlands, countries where the recycling rate of municipal waste is very high, such as belgium or sweden, or countries where the recycling rate is quite low, such as romania. in this context, i would like to add that the adoption of a national waste management strategy and plan is one of the priorities of the new romanian government. it is clear how important the role of national and local administrations is in accepting the new directions of the european agenda, but also in developing methodologies and processes to implement the necessary changes as quickly as possible. it's essential that we have the citizens on our side, that more and more people are proactive, believe in sustainable consumption, in the importance of recycling and minimizing waste. this is the right direction we should be heading.
to overcome the current economic crisis we must look for new ways to guarantee development and progress. we need an ambitious agenda for future growth, which ensures a higher quality of life; but boosting economic performance must be based on a rational and efficient use of resources because they are not unlimited. we already know that mineral resources are not renewable, but neither are water, soil or air. already, worldwide, we are consuming more than the earth can produce, and the industrialized countries, including european nations, have the highest per capita consumption of resources. in this context, i stress the importance of recycling and recovery, but also of information programmes to change individual behaviour.
the efficient use of energy resources is a key element of energy policy, which aims to achieve the sustainability objective of the eu 2020 strategy. i am convinced that in the next decade renewable energy, which today is still a luxury, will overtake the role of alternative sources and become the main source of energy in the eu. however, the energy potential of the member states differs. they must focus on the internal energy potential. natural gas will play an important role in the union's energy mix, given the new extraction procedures. however, energy efficiency is dependent on the union's ability to connect these markets. we need considerable investment in energy infrastructure, which could ensure easy transport between member states. the financing of these investments could be achieved by attracting private investors or investment funds.
a resource-efficient europe will require not only innovation and technology, but also new patterns of behaviour in production and consumption and new models of governance. this is why the european commission should initiate the transformation of europe's energy production by organising, for example, a forum with local and regional authorities and relevant stakeholders from both the private and public sectors as a starting point. the european commission should also set binding green procurement targets for national governments and include them as a separate element of the future public procurement directive to increase legal clarity in this area.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i should say that this has been the first real plenary debate at which i have been present. i very much appreciated it and found it encouraging. while i would like to respond on many of the matters you have discussed – innovation, waterways, agriculture, fisheries, public awareness, indicators, targets, trade integration, eco-design, food, and so on – i would need too much time. obviously, the things we are discussing are complex. however, although i am commissioner for the environment, allow me to focus briefly on concerns which were raised by some of your colleagues in connection with the economy and the current situation, and why it is so important that the ideas in the gerbrandy report are supported. to start with the 20th century, that century actually represents the resource-intensive model. the population increased fourfold, economic output increased many, many more times, and the use of any resource you could pick up increased by approximately the same factor. so, in fact, resource prices at that time, if measured by the composite index and with the exception of world wars and the oil crisis, were constantly falling. the recognition that resources are finite was absolutely not present in that model, in which, to some extent, we are still living. this situation is, in many ways, changing. the population is growing. not only will we reach nine billion in 2050 but, more importantly, as the mckinsey report says, in 2030 we can expect three billion more citizens to be raised from poverty to middle-class consumption. they will have every right to that, but they will not be able to get there if we continue with the model developed in the 20th century. what does that mean for europe? europe is extremely import-dependent. over the past decade and more, the prices of many resources have been going up. that trend is expected by a majority of companies to continue in the next five years – at 85% – and the volatility of those prices is huge. so today the european business sector is refocusing from labour productivity to resource productivity because that is the area in which businesses see the real opportunities. in many cases it is already recognised that energy and raw materials are critical. as for other resources – apart from water and land perhaps – it is not yet recognised in many cases that they are finite. these resources will be the focus of attention for our societies and businesses in the future. nature is not yet so much in the picture, but it will come. that is the change which we are facing. how is this connected to the story which we are all living through – the story of crisis and of the absolute need for growth and new jobs? as olli rehn said in his speech a day ago, if we had a silver bullet we would already have fired it, but we do not have it so we have to work consistently and patiently. there are some areas in which europe is strong and in which it could become even stronger. one such area is talent: the knowledge economy, research and innovation. the other major area is resource efficiency. why? because using less water, less energy and less raw materials, and producing products which can be reused and recycled makes economic sense. that is the trend which is currently very much present in the economy and in business. so ultimately we are talking about economic resilience and environmental resilience at the same time. i also really appreciate your highlighting the question of urgency and the need for implementation. these are matters to which we also try to draw attention when we talk about economic governance – the so-called semester story. here too, we emphasise those issues that point in the direction of resource efficiency. as was rightly mentioned by one of your colleagues, taxes are not to be feared. we are proposing no more and no less than the shift of taxation away from labour – and in europe we have high labour costs – in the direction of, for example, landfill taxation, which makes more sense. the removal of environmentally harmful taxes makes all the more sense at a time when we are trying to tap all the reserves in our public finances. this is not something which we can afford to ignore today. in our discussions with member states, we know that we bear a responsibility and we are advising them. and, by the way, in the council conclusions of march 2011 they supported our ideas. for the rest, we are working hard on the implementation of the roadmap. this year we will focus heavily on water. we will launch the resource efficiency transition platform within a few days – some of you will be participating in this – and it will bring real political impetus and direction. it will rightly be an important part of the seventh environmental action programme and, of course, the urgency of implementation is the core consideration. we will be discussing these issues at the rio+20 conference in just a few days’ time. the conference will not, of course, be about resource efficiency, but rather about the green economy. however, it is the same story. it will not be about europe, but about global commitments and the world as a whole, because we all understand that these things are necessary. to conclude, if everything was all right with brown growth, we would not be discussing green growth today, but brown growth has inherent limits which are recognised today by the business sector. we, as politicians, should recognise them too. when we talk about green growth, we are actually talking about how to design future growth capable of bringing greater well-being and more benefits to society than brown growth is bringing today. i am not trying to paint a catastrophe scenario because that will not happen: we are intelligent societies and an intelligent species. but a sustainable future, my friends, is simply not a choice. it is inevitable. finally i would like to thank all of you – the many of you – who have stayed to the end of the debate.
in writing. the initiative to promote resource efficiency is part of the europe 2020 strategy and is one of the principles on which eu action on climate change, energy, transport, raw materials, agriculture, fisheries, biodiversity and regional development will be based. i mention that the growing demand for natural resources and their overexploitation are leading to environmental degradation, accelerating climate change and destroying the planet's finite natural capital, including the decline of biodiversity. i stress the importance of research, development and innovation to accelerate the transformation to a resource-efficient europe. i believe that putting the economy on a resource-efficient and resource-efficient path will bring increased competitiveness and productivity and new sources of growth and jobs.
in writing. – the need for action on resource efficiency is becoming increasingly urgent as the global population grows and our resources are depleted. one aspect which is particularly important and which deserves special attention is the relationship between water use, food production and food waste. up to 80% of the water we take from the ground is for agriculture, yet we throw away up to one third of our food. the amount of water and energy which fuels this level of waste is shocking. we know that food waste is produced throughout the supply chain, at producer and retail level, as well as at consumer level. we need urgent action to tackle food waste at all levels. we can invest in all the irrigation technology and green energy we want, but there seems little point if it just produces food which rots on the supermarket shelf or ends up in the kitchen bin.
i am glad that romania was not targeted by mr barroso's letter, so it is not among the top eight countries in the union in terms of high youth unemployment, but my country is also very much affected by this phenomenon. i insist on three measures which i have outlined on several occasions to remedy this situation: re-establishing vocational and technical schools, stimulating young entrepreneurs and reducing school dropout, especially among the roma. i also stress the importance of apprenticeship programmes and traineeships. to increase the chances of young people in romania getting a job, the apprenticeship law was amended in 2011. procedures have been simplified and benefits for employees and employers have been increased. companies that employ young people also benefit from some facilities. thanks to them, over 10,000 young people entered the job market last year.
the number of young people who have difficulties entering the labour market and developing a career is increasing in almost all eu countries, and this is mainly due to declining opportunities for economic development. the fact that in the countries hardest hit by the crisis the youth unemployment rate is approaching dramatically the 50% mark calls for urgent action by the authorities. it is of the utmost importance that the efforts of national actors, intensified by the support of the commission, focus on directing european funds towards improving this situation. the long-term sustainable development of europe depends on how we harness the economic potential generated by young talent. i think our approach has to focus on the link between educational needs, the expectations of young people, and especially the needs of the labour market. we need to focus on preventing early school leaving and developing the school curriculum in line with the specific needs of the labour market. the lack of synchronisation of education systems with employers' needs and expectations in terms of candidates' skills is one of the biggest problems.
in the current context we cannot ignore the fact that the youth unemployment rate is approaching 50%. the support we want to offer from the european institutions must not be delayed. the requirements that employers today are almost unfulfilled in terms of the skills of candidates and the conditions that they have to meet, i mean some of the employers expect graduates to have maybe 25 years and 10 years of work experience. this is not possible, which is why there is a need for regulation at european level. even those without a college degree can benefit from tailor-made programs for youths. the problem is not their ability to learn and understand, but is found in employers. that's why i'm asking for special programs for young people so that they can enter the workforce and the problem of unemployment can be solved.
one of the goals we set for ourselves is to have a higher percentage of graduates in higher education. sadly, the present situation shows that young people are not even able to put their education to use, having to accept jobs far below their qualifications. this is a waste of money that member states have invested in education and it is a wake-up call that we urgently need to adapt the school curriculum to the needs of the labour market. in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy, we need to allocate substantial funds to pragmatic training of young people and lifelong learning programmes. i believe that we can counter the problem of youth unemployment by increasing the co-financing for the structural funds. another important point we need to focus on is engaging young people in research and innovation for technological development so that we become more economically competitive globally.
although we celebrate the day of equal pay between men and women since march 5, 2011, we have been dancing and making no progress in this area for fifty years. i congratulate mrs. bower on her report. it's a fair x-ray of equal opportunity in the european union. there is no equality of opportunity in the european union as long as there is no equality of pay. i do not know whether we need to improve the legislation, i do not know whether we need to adopt new legislation, but i would like to know from the commission how we are complying with the existing legislation, because directives 17 and 18 of 2004 do not allow companies that practice inequality of opportunity to participate in public tenders, to participate in obtaining european funds, to participate in grant and public procurement procedures. has anyone ever asked any member state whether it has met these criteria in the three areas? has the commission ever checked whether companies in the member states have obtained european funds, participated in public procurement without fulfilling the equal pay condition? i think the only way to be viable and to implement this principle, which is a principle of honour for all of us, is to respect the existing legislation in particular, to try to find mechanisms and levers to control its application.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs edith bauer, on this report and on the balanced positions she has adopted whenever we have discussed such a subject. whether you're a man or a woman, for equal work you should get equal pay. in too many states, there are still pay disparities and they need to be addressed. i appreciate that the report takes the right approach to this end, with its emphasis on pay transparency. in this respect, further measures are needed, including at member state level, as proposed in articles 20 and 21. at the same time, i believe that more attention should be paid to the use of civil, administrative and legal mechanisms to combat pay disparities, but an important role in this process belongs to women themselves. if they feel that they are being discriminated against, if they are being paid less than their male colleagues, they should appeal to the competent courts and, in some cases, even to the judiciary. i have always maintained that women must fight first for their rights and for their right to be treated as such. the same principle applies to political representation and corporate management and to pay differentials. if women can demonstrate that they are not only capable and competent but also aware of their rights and determined to protect them, no employer will offer them less than the work they do.
the gender pay gap has its origins in school years, when girls are more likely to be directed towards humanities subjects, as opposed to boys, who focus on science subjects. in this way, not only do women end up being paid less in the profession they choose to practice but they also choose specific jobs that are traditionally less well paid. it's an outrageous inequality in our century when we talk about the integration of minorities of all kinds, but we don't give equal treatment to the 50 percent of the population, let alone discriminate based on the argument of motherhood. some employers still make the granting of a job conditional on a commitment not to procreate for a certain number of years after the employment. what we should be concerned about is the danger of poverty that comes from these practices, which can stigmatize entire generations of children.
the work and residence permit quotas imposed by switzerland for eight central and eastern european countries are part of a whole suite of discriminatory restrictions to which the new member states have been and are still systematically subjected. i don't agree with the commission either. the approach that the commission always takes when discussing discrimination against eastern european countries - such as visa reciprocity, access to the schengen area, discriminatory websites and many others - is very general, which is not right. as regards switzerland, there is no legal argument to impose these restrictions only on certain european citizens, since article 10 of the agreement invoked by the swiss authorities concerns all eu citizens, regardless of nationality. moreover, this restriction is disproportionate and not economically justified. we are in solidarity with all member states that are subject to restrictions of any kind, but i would like to stress that the situation is much more difficult for romanian and bulgarian citizens. for them, in switzerland, the restrictions on their residence and work will be able to apply until 2019, compared to the original deadline of 2014. at the same time, romanians and bulgarians still have limited access to work in nine member states, and spain applies restrictions only to romanian citizens.
i voted in favour of this report because the negative impact of the economic crisis on the countries of the region is still being felt. in this context, many countries still need the support of financiers. i support the rapporteur's view that certain changes are needed in relation to macro-financial assistance to third countries. clear and transparent rules are needed to make decision-making more efficient and faster. the rules should also be supplemented by the possibility for the commission to grant aid differentiated according to the situation. the commission should also be able to provide the necessary information to the member states. moreover, democratic interests should be given equal weight with economic and financial interests. macro-financial assistance has helped to maintain stability in the eu's immediate neighbourhood and has positive effects on the economy.
i voted against this report and, in my view, this puts parliament in an embarrassing position. we are not a lobby group which must act in favour of mrs timoshenko, but a parliament which must give priority to and respect democratic principles. in a democracy, balance and respect for authority are vital. i do not think we can intervene in the case of a final sentence against a person, even in a third country, any more than i can believe that in a resolution of this parliament we can talk about committees of inquiry to check possible restrictions on human rights in the timoshenko case. i think that parliament should definitely change its attitude because it is a harmful attitude for its status as a representative of the population to refrain from interfering in the judiciary of other countries, including ukraine, and i think that this kind of attitude damages the image of parliament.
i voted in favour of this resolution because the ukrainian authorities should stop bringing political cases against members of the opposition. former prime minister yulia tymoshenko is in a very difficult situation, her health problems being accentuated by the conditions of detention; but other members of the opposition are also imprisoned, made up mistakes and tried. the selective application of justice currently taking place in ukraine is not in line with the rules of democracy and the rule of law. the union must continue to strongly denounce all abuses and call on the ukrainian government to respect democratic principles and fundamental rights. we must stand up for yulia tymoshenko, for the other members of the opposition, but above all for all ukrainians who are entitled to free, fair and democratic elections this autumn.
i support this resolution, although the quality of the statistical data available needs to be improved. it is true that the gender pay gap has not decreased significantly over recent years, so that even today large discrepancies in this area still persist. in order to ensure equal pay for equal work, i call on the member states and the social partners to promote gender-neutral employment policies and equal opportunities for all. women's careers must not be affected by pregnancy or maternity leave. furthermore, society needs to reassess wages in occupations where women are predominant, such as education or health. and of course, in the end, i would like to stress: we need a lot more women in politics and decision-making positions.
i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that some clarification is needed as regards the measures taken by the swiss authorities. the legal basis used for the introduction of the transitional measures is not clear. moreover, i do not think that we should accept quotas based on nationality which discriminate against european citizens. a clear position from the commission and clarification of the measures introduced is needed. i believe that there should be a convergence between swiss and eu legislation on the internal market. i would draw attention to the need to examine measures which obstruct the functioning of the internal market within the union. the commission should also provide an assessment of the current situation on the basis of which to provide concrete responses.
in writing. − the eu is in a position to provide financial assistance to third countries that need it, but because of the large number of grants and loans we have provided so far, we need to review the legislation in place that allows us to do this together with the imf. on this basis, i support the commission's proposal to clarify the decisionmaking procedure, but i do not agree that parliament should lose any role in this process. parliament must be present in these decisions, at least in an advisory role; we must be informed of the decisions of the commission and the council. therefore, i support the rapporteur's proposal to use delegated acts for each macro-financial assistance case. i also agree that this regulation should not be merely transitional. i support the rapporteur's proposal for an indefinite period, but i would like to see the regulation revised every four years to take account of economic changes.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the general arrangements for the granting of macro-financial assistance to third countries. the framework regulation aims to clarify the rules and to increase the efficiency, transparency and effectiveness of union assistance. macro-financial assistance is an instrument of the union's external policy and should serve to enhance the union's visibility and influence beyond its borders and should be used to provide exceptional financial assistance to third countries experiencing temporary balance of payments difficulties. unlike other instruments providing direct support for the union's external policies (the instrument for pre-accession assistance, the european neighbourhood instrument, the development cooperation instrument, etc.), macro-financial assistance should not be used to provide regular financial support, nor should its main purpose be to support the economic and social development of the beneficiary countries. macro-financial assistance should include measures to enhance the commitment of beneficiary countries to the common values shared with the union, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance, respect for human rights, combating forced child labour, support for sustainable development and poverty reduction, and other principles of free, fair and rules-based trade. the achievement of these objectives should be monitored regularly by the commission.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on ukraine because ukraine is a country of strategic importance to the eu and given its size, resources, population and geographical situation. ukraine occupies a distinct position in europe as a major regional actor with considerable influence on the security, stability and prosperity of the entire continent and should therefore assume political responsibility. respect for civil liberties, fundamental freedoms and the rule of law and the provision of fair, impartial and independent judicial procedures and its focus on internal reform are indispensable prerequisites for the further development of eu-ukraine relations. furthermore, the sentencing on 11 october 2011 of former prime minister of ukraine yulia tymoshenko to seven years in prison and the trials of other senior officials of the former government are unacceptable and constitute an act of selective justice, reflecting serious shortcomings in the independence of the judiciary and the lack of reform in all aspects of the judicial process: prosecution, trial, conviction, detention and appeal.
in writing. − natural resources are essential to the functioning of the european and global economy and to our quality of life. these resources, which include raw materials such as fuels, minerals and metals, but also food, soil, water, air, biomass and ecosystems, are under increasing pressure. in the context of these changes, more efficient use of resources will be essential to ensure growth and jobs in europe. this increase in efficiency will create important economic opportunities, lead to improved productivity and cost reductions and boost competitiveness. more efficient use of resources will enable us to meet many of the eu's objectives and will be essential if we are to make progress in the fight against climate change and meet our target of reducing eu greenhouse gas emissions by 80 to 95% by 2050.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because it requires coordinated action to counter the gloomy global outlook. the world's population is on track to reach 9 billion by 2050, the number of middle-class consumers will almost double to over 3 billion in the next 10 years, according to the fao, food production needs to increase by 70 percent by 2050, and already today 60 percent of the planet's ecosystems are degraded or used unsustainably. europe needs a new agenda for future growth. this new agenda will require a paradigm shift, a new way of thinking about production and consumption patterns. it will require not only technical change but also institutional change and social innovation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on a resource-efficient europe. in the context of the economic crisis and the alarming rise in food and energy prices, we need to equip the european union with a viable strategy in this area. by investing in green technologies, the european union can not only create jobs, but also improve its competitiveness and reduce its energy dependence. as my group's rapporteur on this file in the committee on international trade, i called for the reduction and elimination of tariff and non-tariff barriers to trade in green goods and services.
in writing. - i voted for the report on a resource-efficient europe. i believe that to create a resource-efficient europe, we need to both stimulate innovation and research and reduce the use of resources to avoid resource scarcity and resource price increases. we call on the commission to streamline the waste acquis and ask the commission to make proposals by 2014 to phase out the incineration of recyclable waste by the end of this decade. we also ask the commission to review the 2020 recycling targets in the waste framework directive. i believe that a fair opening of world markets for green goods and services encourages sustainable consumption, creates export opportunities and new jobs based on the use of new technologies. the call for action to ensure that the most efficient use of resources is a central concern in regional policy. i believe that resource efficiency should be addressed at regional and local level, taking into account the potential and different levels of development of european regions. we urge the commission to calculate and make public the costs of environmental damage as a consequence of eu agriculture and fisheries policy.
in writing. − currently, one in five young people in the labour market cannot find a job. the unemployment rate among young people (over 20%) is twice that of the total labour force and almost three times that of the adult labour force. in this context, young people who are having difficulty finding work may decide to extend or resume their studies. this is an investment in the future, provided you get the right skills. however, the reality is that many young people are not involved in either the world of work or education. to meet these challenges, europe needs to invest in its young people and propose immediate and effective actions to prevent and tackle high levels of youth unemployment. i believe that measures to stimulate economic growth are necessary to create new jobs, but these alone are not enough to solve the problem of youth unemployment.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution because i believe that such an initiative, which promotes the access of young people to the labour market, is necessary. the fact that youth unemployment exceeds 22% within the eu, in the context of a deepening job shortage, is worrying. i therefore welcome mr barroso's initiative to send action teams to the member states with the highest rates of unemployment among young people and look forward to their proposals for improving their access to the labour market. another important aspect is the status of trainees. we need minimum european standards for the creation and occupancy of high-quality traineeships. young people are often forced to accept traineeships as an alternative to a paid job commensurate with their university training.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the youth opportunities initiative. young people are victims of occupational discrimination in terms of their access to and permanence on the labour market as a result of their precarious situation and temporary contracts. i believe that mobility and the opportunity to study and work in another member state could be an important step towards young people having better access to the labour market. it is therefore necessary to extend the 'erasmus for all' initiative and i recommend that the programme place a strong emphasis on work experience abroad for students and young people in vocational training, including in the field of entrepreneurship. i regret that, after four years of crisis, the €82 billion of the structural funds budget in the 2007-13 multiannual financial framework has not been spent. i ask the commission to prioritise the reallocation of a significant part of the €82 billion to projects targeting young people, especially smes, with the aim of stimulating the creation of decent jobs for young people. the effective use of these amounts will contribute to increasing the involvement of young people in the economic and social development of the member states.
in writing. − equal pay for men and women for equal work is a key factor in achieving gender equality, as enshrined in the primary legislation of the european union. i believe that the recommendations made in this resolution are capable of contributing to reducing the gap in treatment between women and men in terms of remuneration for their work, but also in terms of combating gender discrimination, occupational segregation or the undervaluation of women's work. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − equality between women and men is a fundamental right, a common value of the european union and a necessary condition for achieving the objectives of growth, employment and social cohesion at union level. in recent decades, significant progress has been made in ensuring equal opportunities for women and men. this is due, in the first place, to the legislation on equal treatment, measures to integrate the principle of equal opportunities into all community policies and specific measures on the promotion of women. however, current data show that women continue to earn on average 15% less than men for each hour worked, and this figure is stable. eliminating the gender pay gap can help create a more equitable and cohesive society. this gives women more power and increases their financial independence. the increase in remuneration for women throughout their working lives can also create the conditions for reducing poverty levels, especially as women retire.
in writing. − according to the latest data, women in the european union earn on average 16.4% less than men, and the pay gap between women and men in the member states varies between 4.4% and 27.6%, despite the resources allocated to closing these gaps and the measures taken to do so. the current economic crisis has led to increased unemployment among women and even, in some member states, to a widening of the pay gap between women and men. there is an urgent need to adopt measures to stimulate professional and career development in conditions of genuine equality between women and men. we do not want the principle of 'equal pay for equal work' to remain just a principle on paper, and we must therefore encourage businesses to respect it.
in writing. − the principle of equal pay for men and women and the elimination of the gender pay gap was already enshrined in the 1975 equal pay directive of the european union (eu). however, it is well known that the problem still exists in all member states, although not all countries have the same wage gaps; some states are trying to implement the principle of gender equality in pay through specific measures. for example, in finland, they introduced equality supplements, in sweden, they have a law that requires employers to conduct a pay survey every three years and to correct unfair discrimination, in slovenia and denmark, they give rewards to companies that put women in leadership positions, and so on. i therefore believe that the eu should also help to reduce the gender pay gap by promoting good national practices and encouraging their cross-application.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report containing recommendations to the commission on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal work or work of equal value. i consider that, in accordance with european legislation and case law, employers must apply the same evaluation criteria to all employees, remuneration schemes must be understandable and transparent, and the criteria applied must take account of the nature and type of work and must not include discriminatory elements. the concept of 'equal pay for work of equal value' must not be influenced by a gender-based approach. the social roles that have significantly influenced education and career paths must be abandoned, and education can and must contribute to the eradication of gender stereotypes in society. i welcome the initiative to establish the 'women and business in europe' prize, which could be awarded to employers (companies, institutions and authorities) who exemplarily promote women, support women in leadership positions and apply equal pay. i welcome the commission's initiative on equal pay day, which was first established on 5 march 2011 and celebrated for the second time on 2 march 2012.
in writing. − i consider that the reactivation of the safeguard clause, together with a number of other recent measures taken by the swiss authorities, jeopardises the progress made in implementing the existing bilateral agreements between the european union and switzerland and, at the same time, creates a disadvantageous situation for citizens and economic operators in certain eu countries. it is necessary for the swiss authorities to review the measures taken in order to ensure a favourable climate for the development of swiss participation in the single market. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. - the decision by switzerland to limit the number of residence permits (more than 5 years) and to reinstate restrictions for poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary is a breach of legislation allowing eu citizens free movement. the measure may also have negative consequences for businesses (especially small and medium-sized enterprises) in switzerland. i support the proposal to ask switzerland to revise the text adopted by the government and i am concerned about the presence of the safeguard clause which makes the possibility of introducing new restrictions for the eu a privilege that switzerland can use at any time. the position towards which switzerland is moving in its relations with the eu does not favour the citizens of any of the union's states. even the decision to ban taxis from germany and austria from transporting people to swiss airports is evidence of the abuse of this country, and is again inconsistent with the alpc (free movement of persons agreement).
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the number of residence permits granted to nationals of poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary, as it is unacceptable for switzerland to decide, through its federal council, to limit, as from 1 may 2012, the number of residence permits for nationals of these member states. this decision is discriminatory and illegal in that no legal basis for such a differentiation on the basis of nationality can be identified in the existing treaties between switzerland and the eu. in 2008, switzerland granted the right of free movement to romania and bulgaria through protocol ii. this agreement provides for a transitional period of up to seven years. in may 2011, the swiss government decided to extend the transition period for bulgarians and romanians until 31 may 2014. this is regrettable, as the extension of the agreement to romania and bulgaria has resulted in increased trade with those countries and had a positive impact on switzerland's economic growth. i consider that the swiss authorities should review the decisions taken for romania and bulgaria and the 8 member states that acceded in 2004 and withdraw the invocation of the safeguard clause.
author. − mr president, i strongly disagree with my previous colleagues who spoke. i think the resolution we are about to vote on is very much in line with this parliament’s commitment to uphold human rights in europe and outside europe, and this is always a matter of urgency. international and regional human rights systems must be defended every time their normal and effective functioning is under threat. the inter-american system has proven to be very effective in latin and central america, the inter-american commission being a highly respected institution. therefore, a country’s decision to leave it represents a genuine threat, the more so when such a decision is likely to influence other countries. at the beginning of may venezuela announced its decision to withdraw from the inter-american commission on human rights, and in just a few days procedural steps have already been undertaken in this direction. this action is in line with the government’s refusal for the last 10 years to allow any visit of the inter-american commission to the country, and it is also in line with the criticism expressed by the venezuelan government every time the commission decided on human rights violation in venezuela. but the defence of human rights is precisely about holding governments accountable for their wrongdoing, the more so when the separation of powers within the state is almost non-existent and victims of human rights violation cannot find redress in their own country. in such cases international institutions are their only hope for justice. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
the answer is "blue cardboard". i can answer that, mrs de keyser. it is a state which decides to leave a human rights body whose decisions are not in its favour. this is not really correct, and it is a way of undermining the authority of an international or regional human rights system. (the president agreed to reply to a question with a blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer to a blue card question. the fact that the other 10 members from the two american continents are not part of the inter-american commission on human rights does not mean that the commission is not a truly very respectable institution. and i think the role it has played in latin america, in central america, is indeed very important.
the author. - i would like to start by saying that as the epp negotiator for the resolution i invite you, and i invite all members of parliament, to vote for the joint draft of the epp, alde and the conservative group. i have three reasons, as you saw in today's meeting: the socialists and the greens, and i expect the communists, too, want to make chavez a champion of human rights; that's what our meeting will bring about. secondly, i think we should vote for the ppe-alde-ecr project because we fear, as do many members of this parliament, for the quality of political life in venezuela. the decision to leave the inter-american commission will mean that no one will stand in chavez's way when he tries, as he has done before, to subordinate the powers of the state. thirdly, there is a danger that this withdrawal will lead to the withdrawal of ecuador, so that venezuela and ecuador will try to set up a parallel justice system that puts the revolution before human rights.
the question is a blue-card question. i have a question for mrs. muñiz. is the subject of our resolution today venezuela or the united states? i thought it was venezuela.
member of the commission. − mr president, honourable members of the european parliament, we are also concerned at venezuela’s announcement that it will start the procedure to evaluate the possibility of withdrawing from the inter-american commission on human rights. the european external action service has already conveyed our concerns to the venezuelan ambassador in brussels, encouraging venezuela to continue fully cooperating with the regional and with the international human rights protection mechanisms. we are monitoring the situation very closely and are staying in touch with the organisation of american states and its members. the inter-american commission and court for human rights are instrumental in the promotion of democracy and the tackling of human rights abuses in the region. the eu has always supported the autonomous and integral character of the inter-american human rights system. the eu is one of the organisation of american states’ largest voluntary donors and has assisted it in its efforts to strengthen democracy and promote human rights across the region. we underline the need for regional leadership in favour of the inter-american human rights system. countries within the region should actively manifest this support. this summit in cochabamba is a good occasion to do so. we are also following closely initiatives to create a new regional human rights system around unasur or the newly created community of latin american and caribbean states. if such initiatives progress, it will be crucial that they are based on the same universally agreed human rights principles and comparable structures of competence and independence to the existing oas human rights protection system, so as to avoid any weakening of the protection of human rights in the region. at the same time i would like to underline that we are trying to engage venezuela more actively. this could include deepening existing dialogues such as economic dialogue and opening new ones on energy and climate change. finally, eu readiness to mobilise an election observation mission to the october 2012 presidential elections, or alternatively an electoral experts’ mission, has been reiterated to the president of the national electoral council on the 25 april. so far the venezuelan electoral authorities have not communicated their position.
in writing. i am deeply concerned about the possible withdrawal of venezuela from the inter-american commission on human rights. president chavez's decision on 2 may 2012 to create a state committee to consider the possibility of this withdrawal is a step backwards in terms of human rights protection. the commission has consistently sought to raise awareness of the human rights situation in the region and has repeatedly warned venezuela about violations of its citizens' political rights, such as the right to freedom of expression. we cannot condone such actions. , which are supported by both the president of the supreme court of venezuela and the attorney general. their position undermines international legal norms and is a sign that the process of democratization in venezuela is being watered down. the union must take a clear position on this issue.
the author. − the cases of idrak abbasov and hadija ismailova are just two examples of pressure on journalists in azerbaijan. i call on the authorities to ensure the investigation and conviction of those responsible and also to investigate all allegations of violence and arbitrary detention against peaceful protesters, including this week. the immediate release of those detained on politically motivated charges, whether journalists or human rights activists or any other person, is vital and in line with the basic rules for respecting human rights. i remind you that azerbaijan is a member of the council of europe and has signed the european convention on human rights. azerbaijan also became a non-permanent member of the un security council for 2012-2013 and thereby committed itself to uphold the values expressed in the charter of human rights. in conclusion, i expect and ask the azerbaijani authorities to respect their human rights commitments.
i consider our resolution useful because it highlights, first of all, the human rights situation in azerbaijan and i hope that the azerbaijani authorities will take urgent action to respect the international commitments they have made. the hosting of eurovision by azerbaijan has, beyond its artistic dimension, a strong symbolic significance and, as stated here, the fact that such an event is taking place in this country should not make us forget the major human rights violations. we are concerned about the restrictions on peaceful protests and the intimidation of independent journalists, as well as the opaque way in which property expropriations have been carried out. i, for my part, appeal to the azerbaijani authorities to take action to remedy these facts, in particular to put an end to the pressure on freedom of expression. i also call on the commission and the other european institutions to strengthen cooperation with azerbaijan to boost respect for human rights in that country. (the president agreed to accept a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to the blue card. i believe that when it comes to saving lives and respecting human rights, it is never too early or too late. on the one hand, i share your view that we have a duty to support the integration of this country into the european value system, but on the other hand i believe that nothing justifies what is happening now in azerbaijan.
i take this opportunity, the discussion of an urgent resolution on azerbaijan, to discuss the status of these emergency resolutions. when were we seriously esteemed colleagues? when did we vote on the association report with azerbaijan by an overwhelming majority in this chamber? when have we ever been serious? when did our countries support azerbaijan becoming a non-permanent member of the security council? when are we serious? when do we ask azerbaijan to support our energy policies through projects that can benefit the european citizen? when are we serious? when we're talking endlessly without any effectiveness, without anything happening, about human rights issues? we are calling in this resolution, as in countless others, for questions which have not been resolved, which have been the subject of other resolutions. i think that azerbaijan is certainly not one of the most frequented countries in terms of respect for human rights, but i think that we have an obligation to have a certain standard in our own policies, a certain consistency and a certain approach that will make us credible to the european citizen. let us not talk about human rights, but let us vote for the european union to have an energy policy that favours the european citizen. i think this discussion is very useful, but we will have to have a much more general discussion, in which we will discuss very clearly what our criteria are in terms of association agreements and frequent economic policies. (the president agreed to accept a question under the 'blue card' procedure in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer to the blue card. i agree, my dear colleague. i'm privileged to have your opinion, but i'm curious: did you vote in favour of the association agreement with azerbaijan? because the condition was that we respect human rights. that is what this is all about, colleague, the double standard in various attitudes and in various decisions.
north korea is, as my colleagues have said, a huge prison, where between 150,000 and 200,000 political prisoners live in inhumane conditions. some of them were born in the camp, so they've never known freedom. our resolution calls on the chinese authorities to stop cooperating with north korea in the hunt for and return of north koreans who manage to escape from the huge prison. north koreans arriving in china must be treated as refugees seeking political asylum and i hope our socialist colleagues will join other political groups in supporting this reading. we would also like the member states to participate in the organisation of an international protection system for these refugees. they just want basic rights.
i'm concerned that the number of north korean refugees continues to grow. it is estimated that there are between 100,000 and 400,000 north korean refugees worldwide. many of them live in very difficult conditions, fearing for their lives or for the lives of those they have left behind. we are concerned about the treatment of illegal economic migrants in china. these are actually political refugees. we cannot approve of the chinese government's decision in march 2012 to forcibly repatriate north korean refugees. there is evidence that these repatriations lead to torture and imprisonment. we call on the chinese government to fulfil its obligations, in particular those relating to the status of refugees and the 1984 convention against torture, and to stop these forced repatriations.
the north korean nuclear programme is a serious concern for international security, but it must not distract from the disastrous human rights situation in north korea. the pyongyang regime seems to be holding its own people prisoner. the exact number of those suffering from hunger and those imprisoned in concentration and reeducation camps is unknown. desperation drives many to try to escape, even though the risks to themselves and their families are considerable. refugees in neighbouring countries have the right to protection, assistance from specialised organisations and adequate status. i call on the entire international community not to turn a blind eye to the suffering of these people.
japan is the sixth trading partner of the union and the union is the third trading partner of japan. a free trade agreement between japan and the european union would bring important benefits to both sides. a large part of the gains from such an agreement will be achieved by eliminating the barriers, particularly non-tariff barriers, currently applied by japan to the european union, and a second problematic aspect is the japanese public procurement market, to which european companies still do not have sufficient access. before negotiations can begin on a free trade agreement, japan must show a willingness to make these concessions in both areas. in the context of insufficient progress in the discussions on these issues to date, a hasty start to negotiations is not appropriate. before authorising the opening of negotiations, the council must take account of parliament's opinion on the proposed negotiating mandate.
mr president, the eu and japan are natural partners. many of the problems confronting both are similar – ageing populations, a social system based on budgetary deficits, concern for the environment, etc. there are 3 300 japanese enterprises operating in europe, employing 400 000 people; 65 models of japanese car are produced in europe, providing 74 000 jobs, while the eu’s total investment in japan has reached jyp 15 trillion. therefore parliament, especially through the parliamentary delegation for relations with japan, is committed to further development of the eu’s relations with japan. the positive conclusion of the scoping exercise is to be saluted, but the mandate to the commission for those negotiations has to be approved by parliament too, not just by the council. i only hope that our japanese friends understand correctly the nature of our request, which is not directed against their country but is rather simply aimed at compliance with the eu treaties.
like my predecessors, i support the compromise reached in the negotiations with the council and the european commission on the revision of the generalised system of trade preferences. the redefinition of this system was necessary in the context of certain countries, such as south korea, having reached a high level of development which no longer allowed for preferential treatment, without this at the same time being to the disadvantage of european industries and other less developed countries benefiting from the same system. the new rules will protect jobs in the european union, especially in sensitive sectors such as textiles. i also hope that we will be able to find a solution for developing countries which still face serious economic difficulties, such as namibia, and which will be excluded when the new rules come into force.
multilingualism is essential for citizens to exercise their right to democratic participation in union legislation, as guaranteed by the treaty of lisbon. we regret that only seven of the 18 ongoing consultations for 2012 are in all the official languages of the union, the rest being in english only. unfortunately, important areas such as budget, energy, transport, taxation, the internal market, consumer rights, food safety and fisheries are not available in all the official languages of the union. we welcome the launch of the 'your voice in europe' website, dedicated to interactive policy making, improving european governance and the regulatory process. unfortunately, of the 35 domains on the 'your voice in europe' website, four are in the 23 official languages of the union, eight in the 22 official languages of the union, four only in english, french and german, two only in english, french, one only in english and german and 16 only in english. commissioner, if the commission does not have sufficient resources to provide documents in all the official languages of the union, i believe it is time to hire more legal linguists for all the official languages of the european union.
member of the commission. - madam president, i have a lot of sympathy for many of the arguments that have been developed in this debate. it is true that the lack of languages is detrimental to the representativeness and the 'direct democracy' aspect of these consultations. but it's a matter of money. we do not have the translators to organise all these consultations in all the 23 official languages of the european union. and by the way, this is a problem we also encounter in many other procedures. you're part of the budget authority. so it is not just parliament's job to debate this subject but also to press for the necessary funds to be provided in the annual and multiannual budgets. so it depends a lot more on you than it does on us. we can only use the translators you give us. so my answer is this: if you do what is necessary to ensure that we have more translators, it will be possible to organise more consultations in all languages and it will also be possible, for example, to translate much faster the trade agreements which i am supposed to conclude with third countries.
madam president, the 2011 european multiple sclerosis (ms) barometer indicates an alarming lack of understanding or support for the more than 600 000 people who suffer from this disease. while in the past the problems were mainly found in central and eastern europe, we are now observing with great concern a degrading of existing care in western europe too. raising public awareness of ms is crucial to making positive changes to the lives of people living with this disease. raising funds for research and care, addressing discrimination at work and advocating policy change by decision-makers all depend on prior awareness and understanding of multiple sclerosis. colleagues, you can help to raise awareness of this disease by signing written declaration no 20 on multiple sclerosis.
on the day it was announced that spanish banks will receive 100 billion euros to be rescued, in bucharest the economic crisis is doubled by a political one, the economy is in recession, but the prime minister of the government considers that the priority is his conflict with the president, regarding the representation of romania in the european council. the prime minister has also dragged parliament into this dispute, which risks introducing significant instability. there is, at this moment, the prospect of a regime crisis, which will double the economic crisis. but now, i think, what is needed is consensus and compromise, not confrontation. that is why, on behalf of the citizens i represent in the european parliament, i ask the prime minister and the president to find an intelligent compromise to represent romania in the council, without creating a problem, without introducing political instability in the context of the economic crisis.
the prolonged impasse facing europe has one major cause: lack of concerted action. the place left by the great absence of the european project, solidarity, is unfortunately being successfully replaced by national interests. the most telling example is germany, which opposes the issuance of bonds. to survive, the european union needs urgent and convincing measures, the main aim of which is to reduce social inequalities and restore the european citizen's confidence in the benefits of european integration. austerity measures promoted by certain national governments have only deepened social inequalities. but as stiglitz notes in a recent article, inequality leads to a profound neglect of human potential, inhibiting consumption and amplifying social tensions. the great recession of the last century, with its massive cuts to basic services and unprecedented rise in unemployment, did just that: it exacerbated inequalities. it's time to take this historical lesson and adopt bold stimulus measures, such as a financial transaction tax and bond issues.
one of the europa nostra prizes this year was awarded to an 80-year-old member of the hungarian community in transylvania, kovács piroska, by the european commission and europa nostra for his efforts to raise awareness of the szekler gate and the importance of its community symbol, and to save it through the contribution of young people. the recognition of the retired teacher's work is a typical example of intergenerational cohesion, belonging and preservation of traditions. this is important for the preservation of our european values because this same community went to the polls yesterday, local elections in romania. i'm not at liberty to go into the details of the results here, but i would like to emphasize how important it is from a minority perspective to preserve our values in their entirety and unbiased, so as not to jeopardize them and our future by destabilizing and fragmenting.
according to the latest data from the world bank, a global waste management crisis is looming. it is estimated that the amount of waste generated by city dwellers will increase from 1.3 billion tons per year now to 2.2 billion tons by 2025, and with that, the cost of solid waste management will rise. the basic steps we need to take are simple and can be taken relatively quickly. first, great attention should be paid to educating and informing the general public about the options available to them to reduce the amount of waste generated, to sort waste efficiently and to increase recycling. these basic measures include the introduction of price mechanisms to encourage responsible consumer behaviour. more support should be given to poor countries, where national and local governments will face an increase in urban population and, consequently, a higher amount of solid waste generated.
i support this initiative because young people have limited access to the labour market at the moment and the new measures proposed offer them the opportunity to develop more easily the personal and professional skills needed to integrate more quickly into an intercultural environment. on the other hand, however, i regret that there is no concrete and clear distinction between voluntary work and work for profit, which is remunerated, leaving room for interpretation among those organisations that might abuse this aspect, all the more so as the proposal also concerns older people who want to get involved in community life, so they already have an age and extensive professional experience that could be used. i think we should continue to focus on initiating detailed procedures to clarify this demarcation, avoiding such risks of exploiting the work of those who want to engage in volunteering.
measures are needed to enable the development of cyber security systems to reduce the risk of disruption to the critical infrastructure of the internet and to increase the level of information security globally in as many sectors of activity as possible, and this can only be achieved through international cooperation. i therefore believe that it is necessary to harmonise the legislation on coercive measures relating to crime against critical infrastructure at the level of all member states. this can only be achieved by establishing, at eu level, uniform measures to severely punish the initiators of cyber attacks and disruptions, which would reduce the risk of their occurrence.
in writing. the decision of the justice and home affairs council on the right of schengen member states to temporarily reintroduce checks at national borders is a major and regrettable step backwards in the process of european integration. it is also a flagrant breach of the provisions of the lisbon treaty, which establishes the council-european parliament codecision procedure. it is a revolting shift from the council's previously constantly restrictive attitude to the question of freedom of movement to the exclusion of the european parliament from the decision-making process on the schengen area. this abuse risks undermining both the community spirit and the institutional and regulatory framework on which the european union is founded. the tendency to renationalize the schengen area, on its 27th anniversary, under the pressure of populist-nationalist tendencies opposed to the free movement of citizens is unacceptable. and changing the legal basis of the mechanism for assessing the implementation of the schengen rules would mean that the european parliament would be demoted from the position of co-decision-maker, as provided for in article 77 of the lisbon treaty, to a strictly consultative position. it is a double attack, against open borders - one of the major symbols of the european union - and the only european forum directly representative of the will of the citizens.
in writing. the council's decision to change the legal basis of the schengen evaluation mechanism is unacceptable for at least two reasons. first, it constitutes a serious breach of the treaties and of the principle of loyal cooperation between the institutions, thus contributing to the creation of a spirit of mistrust between the european institutions. secondly, beyond legal and interinstitutional considerations, the council's approach endangers the very integrity of the schengen area. the evaluation mechanism proposed by the council is no improvement on the current system and is the opposite of what the european parliament wants, namely a european evaluation system in which the commission plays the central role. in practice, member states want to continue the practice of covering up problems at schengen borders instead of promoting an effective evaluation mechanism that involves both assistance in cases of disability and sanctions when they are necessary. the european parliament cannot accept such an approach to the schengen area and is prepared to refer the matter to the european court of justice if the council does not reconsider its position.
in writing. – the members of the council insist that the schengen legal basis is in need of change merely because they want powers to reintroduce the internal borders within the eu. this is utter populism, since internal borders do not improve the life and security of the citizens, but put limits on their freedom. it is clear that the council intends to renationalise the schengen project, and to go back to an outdated intergovernmental approach. more than seeking to satisfy the ego of one of the european institutions, this reflects the demagogic approach of the dialogue with the national societies, rather than the concern for the security of the citizens. the change in the legal basis of the schengen evaluation mechanism should be considered only in terms of finding the correct paths for the implementation and putting into effect the schengen acquis. the member states gathered in the council want to control and change the schengen mechanism as they please, not for improving it, but for hiding their incapacity to improve the life of the citizens by presenting the freedom of movement as the source of all evils.
mr president, latin america is key in global policy, security and trade, yet it is still vulnerable to global risk. it must remain a priority. the eradication of poverty through sustainable development is vital for good governance, democracy and human rights. we must continue to support this region which, despite making progress in eliminating poverty, still has many living below the poverty line. it is also threatened by violence and insecurity, which jeopardise the sustainability of its own development. aid has a positive impact on the region but, for long-lasting change, domestic resources must be developed, tax systems made transparent, corruption and fraud must be eliminated and civil society strengthened. by increasing the well-being of all people, democratic institutions can regain the public’s trust. we must continue the political and human rights dialogues with latin america, supporting their economic growth and social development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund should be mobilised to provide financial support in response to the request initiated by spain. the proposal aims to support the reintegration into the labour market of spanish workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis. the disposals in the comunidad valenciana were caused by radical changes in the geographical distribution of footwear production and the relocation of production to third countries. as a result of the increase in imports and the decrease in exports of footwear to the eu, the number of producers in spain decreased by 36%. in addition, in the comunidad valenciana, 188 shoe companies closed down. in these circumstances, i draw attention to the need for eu financial assistance to be made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i also stress the importance of improving the training of these workers and the recognition of their abilities and skills.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund provides substantial support for workers made redundant as a result of changes in the structure of world trade and, more recently, as a result of the effects of the economic crisis. the main economic problem in spain is the worrying rate of unemployment. at present, spain's unemployment rate stands at 25 percent, with over five million unemployed. the most affected are the industrialized areas, which are gradually losing ground to the emerging countries. i consider the support provided by the egf to be important, which i can compare to a lifeline for the displaced. the workers affected need substantial further support through european social fund programmes aimed at re-professionalising and re-integrating them into the labour market. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this support for the workers made redundant is urgently needed. areas affected by redundancies should receive special attention from the authorities to attract new investment and support for business opportunities. renewable energy is a field with potential for job creation. i would like to point out that the workers laid off in the valencian community are currently building the largest photovoltaic parks in europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund following the request submitted by spain (comunidad valenciana). spain requested assistance for 876 redundancies in 146 enterprises in the leather and footwear industry. the footwear sector accounts for 26% of total employment in the comunidad valenciana region, making an important contribution to the local economy, which is dominated by small and medium-sized enterprises in traditional sectors such as textiles, footwear and ceramics. i would stress that the implementation of this request for mass redundancies in a large number of smes in a single sector should serve as an example as regards the eligibility of self-employed persons and employers of smes for support from the egf in the next regulation. i recall the commitment of the institutions to ensure a swift and smooth procedure for the adoption of decisions to mobilise the egf, thus providing support for workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund to remedy the effects of the floods that affected both liguria and tuscany in 2011. i believe that people affected by these natural disasters should be given support and financial aid. and it should be granted as soon as possible, to improve the living conditions of the population. at the same time, i believe that there should be involvement at both local and regional level, through the competent authorities in the plan. the mobilisation of the fund should also take into account the coordination of measures, after an appropriate assessment of needs. i would like to stress the importance and the need for the effective use of the solidarity fund to prevent future such natural and social disasters. in these circumstances, the draft amending budget respects budgetary discipline and sound financial management.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by mr balzani on the mobilisation of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations from the eu solidarity fund for liguria and tuscany, as i believe that we need to focus on the damage caused by disasters and, at the same time, express our solidarity with the affected regions. we also think of the victims of these disasters, for whom nothing can be done at the moment. i'm here to express my sympathy to the families who have suffered irreparable loss. the european union must intervene to mitigate the effects of major natural disasters which have caused significant damage to households, businesses and agriculture, as well as disruption to major transport links and essential public infrastructure networks in the liguria and tuscany regions. i would like to draw attention to the importance of increasing the fund's response capacity so that financial assistance to disaster-stricken states is made available much more quickly. local, regional and national authorities also have a particularly important role to play in this respect, and they need to improve the way they coordinate applications for the solidarity fund.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the solidarity fund following the floods in italy, liguria and tuscany. this request concerns the mobilisation of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations from the eu solidarity fund to help alleviate the effects of the floods which affected italy (liguria and tuscany) in october 2011. considers it important to provide rapid financial assistance through the eu solidarity fund (eusf) for those affected by natural disasters. i regret that the other component of the budgetary authority waited eight weeks before adopting a position, insisting on its interpretation of protocol no 1 to the treaty on the functioning of the european union (the deadline for informing national parliaments). i call on all stakeholders in the member states, both at local and regional level, and on national authorities to better assess needs and improve coordination for possible future requests for eusf, in order to speed up the mobilisation of the fund to those affected as much as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in favour of italy under the present circumstances is welcome. i draw attention to the need to remedy the damage caused by the floods in the liguria and tuscany regions in 2011 to households, businesses and agriculture. major transport links and essential public infrastructure networks also need to be improved accordingly. as the solidarity fund was set up to express solidarity with the population of areas affected by natural disasters, i consider that its mobilisation for this purpose is useful and necessary. given that the damage caused by the floods is of natural origin and thus falls within the scope of the solidarity fund, i believe that assistance should be provided quickly and efficiently. i support the importance of this instrument in mitigating or preventing such social disasters.
in writing. − i fully support the commission's proposal to mobilise the eu solidarity fund for italy following the floods that affected the liguria and tuscany regions in october 2011, causing significant damage to households, businesses and agriculture, as well as disrupting major transport links and essential public infrastructure networks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund, because this represents urgent action to enable delivery of eu aid to the italian regions of liguria and toscana, heavily affected by last year’s tremendous floods. the total estimated damages reach the sum of eur 722 467 million, and the eu action will provide an important contribution of some eur 18 061 682. i am very much looking forward to seeing the full restoration of the situation in the two italian regions: the help from the european union solidarity fund will be an important instrument for the restoration of damage to residential homes, businesses and agriculture and the disruption of major transport links and essential public infrastructure networks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i support the rapporteur's proposal to mobilise eur 730 000 from the egf, in the form of commitment and payment appropriations, for technical assistance at the commission's initiative. i would stress the importance of this fund, since displaced workers must be supported in their search for a new job. and the european globalisation adjustment fund is designed to provide additional support to workers affected by major changes in the structure of world trade. this instrument has proved useful in mitigating the effects of the economic crisis, as well as in preventing other social disasters, until now. however, i believe that the union's assistance in this regard should be more dynamic and needs to be made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i would like to draw attention to the importance of networking and exchanging information on the fund. at the same time, i believe that the procedural and budgetary mechanisms should be improved in order to speed up the mobilisation of the egf.
in writing. − i agree with the measures proposed by the commission to be taken in connection with the european globalisation adjustment fund, as this instrument was created to provide additional support to workers affected by major changes in the structure of world trade. i believe that member states should encourage exchanges of good practice and learn especially from those member states which have already set up national information networks on the egf in which all social partners and local actors participate, in order to have a good structure of this instrument at all levels.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, on budgetary discipline and sound financial management. i welcome the establishment of the appropriate legislative and budgetary instruments needed to provide additional support to workers affected by major changes in the structure of world trade and the economic and financial crisis and to assist them in their reintegration into the labour market. i believe that the financial assistance provided by the european union to redundant workers should be dynamic and should be made available as quickly and efficiently as possible. i welcome the creation of a website, available in all the official languages of the union, to provide and disseminate information on applications, while highlighting the role of the budgetary authority. i regret that the results of the final evaluation of the egf will be available too late to contribute to the debate on the new egf regulation for the period 2014-2020, in particular as regards the effectiveness of the application of the criterion for granting derogations in the crisis period, as the cases concerned were not analysed in the mid-term evaluation report of the egf.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because latin america needs to turn the rather encouraging economic growth it enjoys into sustainable development. this was also highlighted in the joint oecd-ecpalc analysis of the region's economic outlook for 2012. as the leader in both aid and investment in latin america, the european union can make a significant contribution to this process. i therefore welcome the proposals to redefine development cooperation policy, with emphasis on the principle of differentiation and concentration of aid. i agree with the need to give adequate attention to middle-income countries, in line with the european consensus on development, but also with the oecd recommendations. i stress the importance of economic relations with latin america and the beneficial effects of trade agreements. however, it is necessary to ensure that they are coordinated with development objectives. i also ask the commission to give priority to programmes to reduce crime and violence. i believe that a special emphasis should be placed on concrete actions to combat violence against women.
in writing. - i am a supporter of the idea that latin america must be a priority for europe. the eu-latin america partnership means fighting poverty, exclusion and discrimination against women and children as strategic priorities. competition with china is also a reality in this area which we must face. as such, i support the idea and voted for the report that provides for the volume of development allocations to be maintained in the period 2014-2020 for the countries of latin america.
in writing. - latin america has been the recipient of european union financial and technical assistance since the 1960s, which ranks first in public support for development. the community's development and cooperation policy aims to combat poverty and social inequality, to integrate into the world economy and to strengthen the rule of law. it takes the form of regional and bilateral agreements covering all areas of trade, technical, financial, cultural and political activity. the global economic and financial crisis is affecting european economies significantly. however, it is noted that the impact of the crisis on latin america has been less severe and that the economic growth outlook for 2012 is 4.5%. the imf clearly states that uncertainties about the global recovery could affect latin american economic growth. despite the positive economic forecasts, we note with concern that 180 million people in this region live below the poverty line, and 10 countries in the region are among the top 15 in the world in terms of inequality.
in writing. − as middle-income countries are a driver of development and regional integration, and as a crisis in these countries impedes the progress of low-income countries in these regions, i believe that there is a need to improve coordination between the european union and latin america in order to achieve the millennium development goals (mdgs), especially in terms of the implementation of measures to combat poverty, create jobs and social integration of marginalised groups.
in writing. - latin america will continue to be a priority for the european union, and this is evidenced, in particular, by the considerable progress made in bi-regional relations in recent years. as a member of the european parliament's delegation for relations with mercosur, i believe that the european union must continue to give strong support to the development and stabilisation process in the region and develop, in close consultation with the latin american countries, a policy for the development of the region which is sustainable, equitable and balanced. to this end, i recommend intensifying bilateral dialogue and cooperation in key areas of common interest such as energy, transport, research, science and technology, and good governance in fiscal matters. this involves adjusting the relationship on a case-by-case basis to achieve the greatest mutual benefit. this approach will also complement and support efforts to achieve greater regional integration.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the definition of a new development cooperation policy in relations with latin america, as, according to the lisbon treaty, the overall objective of development cooperation is to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable economic and social development, and to achieve the millennium development goals (mdgs) by 2015. latin america and the eu form a bi-regional strategic partnership based on shared values and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, with brazil and mexico being two of the eu's nine strategic partners in the world. the eu is also the main investor and second largest trading partner, as well as the main provider of development aid in the region. the eu's priorities in development cooperation and implicitly with latin america include energy efficiency, renewable energy, transport, biodiversity protection and support for smes. in this context, the conclusion of an eu-mercosur association agreement will stimulate cooperation and development between latin america and the union, provided that it is based on the principle of fair trade and on respect for labour, environmental, public procurement and intellectual property rights standards. trade between latin america and the eu is a crucial factor in reducing poverty and ensuring prosperity on both continents.
in writing. − volunteering benefits both personal development and civil society as a whole. by engaging in cross-border volunteering activities, european citizens have the opportunity to develop new skills necessary for good job placement and to benefit from the experience of cultural and linguistic diversity. i believe that member states need to promote involvement in cross-border volunteering, establish a legal framework favourable to the performance of volunteering activities and recognise the rights of volunteers. i believe it is essential that the skills and competences acquired through volunteering activities are recognised as professional experience and informal and non-formal learning. for all these reasons, i voted in favour of this resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it presents useful proposals which will support volunteering at european level. as we live in a digital age, i particularly support the suggestion in article 20 to create a centralised union portal. it will allow citizens in any member state of the union to have rapid access to all the necessary information, including in the field of cross-border volunteering. i also support the idea of a 'european skills passport'. i believe that it will not only make it possible to put to good use the experience gained in volunteering activities, but will also be a timely complement to the measures for the recognition of diplomas and professional qualifications at european level. i draw attention to the role that volunteering can play in the transition from first job to working life and retirement. i would like to point out that the eleventh edition of the national volunteering week took place in romania from 14 to 20 may. more than 10,000 people from 111 localities were involved in the activities.
in writing. - i wanted to explain my vote in favour, because i'm really an active citizen, i believe in volunteering, i believe in patronage, i believe that to be strong is to do good. although there is increasing progress in volunteering (the year 2011 was the european year of voluntary activities), the rapporteur believes that there must be a clear distinction between the value of voluntary activities, which have no financial counterpart, and gainful activities. volunteering needs to be further supported and the creation of a centralised eu portal on volunteering, the establishment of a 'european voluntary humanitarian aid corps' and the creation of a 'european skills passport' would bring a considerable improvement to the notion of volunteering and to volunteering processes in general. this skills passport will allow volunteering to be publicly recognised (even in cvs, for example) and the skills acquired will be used later by young people in education and work.
in writing. − volunteering activities directly contribute to the eu's fundamental policy objectives, such as social inclusion, employment, education, skills development and the promotion of citizenship. however, there is no clear legal framework for volunteering activities and the skills acquired by volunteers are often insufficiently recognised. i welcome the decision to develop a 'european skills passport' as it will ensure the recognition of professional qualifications across borders and give citizens the opportunity to keep a record of the skills and competences acquired through volunteering.
in writing. − i voted for this resolution because i believe that we need a clear and appropriate legal framework for volunteering activities at the level of each member state. the potential of volunteering activities in developing socioeconomic cohesion should not be overlooked. i therefore believe that member states must protect the rights of volunteers and ensure non-discriminatory access to healthcare as well as social protection services. as regards cross-border volunteering, it is important that older people who choose to engage in volunteering activities in another member state have unconditional access to information and receive funding and support appropriate to their situation.
in writing. − volunteering activities attract more and more young people every year, which is beneficial for both local development and cross-border cooperation. such cooperation projects play a significant role in promoting solidarity, active citizenship and intercultural learning, as young volunteers have the opportunity to study the language and culture of the country in which they work. i believe that the member states of the union must recognise the benefits of all citizens participating in cross-border volunteering activities, activities through which they have the opportunity to develop new skills that can contribute to better integration into the labour market, but also to their mobility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on recognising and promoting cross-border voluntary activities in the eu because of the great contribution that voluntary work organisations make to the eu, the member states and all the regions of europe. this report, in particular by urging national, regional and local authorities to ensure stable funding and provide tax incentives, aims at a strengthened recognition of the organisations involved in volunteering activities. it also stresses the importance of ensuring that skills and knowledge gained by volunteers during their work should help them find jobs and receive due recognition as part of their working experience. moreover, the transnational nature that characterises voluntary work should receive special treatment from the european union, since it represents one of those issues that actively trigger a dynamic definition of european citizenship. voluntary work puts transnational european solidarity into motion.
in writing. − the 2011 year of volunteering initiative report, adopted in the cult committee and in the ep plenary, is an assessment of the eu's actions during the past year, a year dedicated to the idea of volunteering. in addition to its evaluation function, the cult committee has also made recommendations for promoting and facilitating volunteering activities, especially in transnational situations. i supported this report both in committee and in plenary, because i consider it to be a report with significant added value, even if it remains an own-initiative report. the elements they incorporate are fundamental to the effective functioning of eu programmes in the field of volunteering. it insisted on funding, both through its own programmes and through the cohesion fund, and on visa liberalisation for non-eu citizens interested in volunteering in the eu.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the european parliament has given a new signal by affirming the special role of crossborder volunteering activities at eu level. beyond being a catalyst for creating a shared civic spirit, the report's data shows that volunteering can contribute up to 5% of gdp growth. given that around 100 million europeans are involved in this type of activity, a more effective regulatory framework in the union is required. among the excellent measures in this report, i find the creation of an eu portal with a section dedicated to cross-border volunteering, as well as the establishment of a european volunteers humanitarian corps to select and train people to respond to natural disasters, extremely useful. last but not least, the introduction of a european skills passport, valid in all member states, will provide for the proper recognition of professional qualifications and skills acquired through volunteering. in addition to the concrete benefits of volunteering, expressed in social cohesion, as a factor of integration and a source of human resources, this activity also has a symbolic role for the union: it contributes to the development of citizenship and the common european identity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the recognition and promotion of crossborder volunteering in the eu. volunteering is an informal learning experience suitable for people of all ages and provides benefits in terms of personal development, civic values, social solidarity and participation in democratic life. we call on member states that do not have a clear and appropriate legal framework for volunteers to create one and to develop national strategies for promoting volunteering activities, including the recognition of volunteer rights, and to pay attention to this sector in the development of future policies, programmes and funding. national, regional, local authorities and the eu must pay particular attention to disadvantaged young people, especially those with disabilities, so that they can volunteer and receive appropriate educational and financial support. we propose the creation of a centralised eu portal, in cooperation with organisations and associations active in the sector, comprising a database of good volunteering practices and a section dedicated to cross-border volunteering. the portal should provide information on available programmes, their cost and conditions of participation, information on administrative formalities, legal and fiscal aspects of volunteering, obstacles to accessing programmes and the best ways to overcome them.
in writing. − the development of digital services and infrastructure at european level is not only a consequence of the qualitative and quantitative increase in the importance of these communication and working environments for european citizens, but also an essential element of european policies to stimulate economic growth and competitiveness. the security of information infrastructures is a key element for achieving the objectives of the digital agenda of the european union and the europe 2020 strategy. without a more secure digital environment, both european economies and citizens suffer. i welcome the conclusions of the report and support the directions of development and action it describes. increasing the security of the information infrastructure and, by implication, the security of the european citizen cannot be achieved without flexible strategies to promote cooperation between the public and private sectors. only through this cooperative process, bringing together governments, economic actors and citizens, can vital areas such as financial services, health, food security and water supply be effectively defended against new threats. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report because security and confidence are key conditions for achieving the europe 2020 smart growth objectives. and the digital agenda aims to increase the eu's competitiveness by strengthening information and communication technology. today, in the context of increased internet use, the development of a high level of security is becoming increasingly important. the disruption of the internet entails major risks as it can affect a large number of european citizens and businesses. improving the assessment and management of cyber risks is therefore essential. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity legislation and will continue to monitor the implementation of the eu's cybersecurity legislation. given their complexity and the fact that they are becoming increasingly sophisticated, coordination of measures is essential. the eu must take a coherent approach to tackling security issues.
in writing. − the rapporteur is of the opinion that the issue of internet security is a pertinent one and he is right. it therefore proposes that measures already taken, such as directive 2008/114 on the identification and designation of european critical infrastructures and the assessment of the need to improve their protection, or the commission's 2009 communication on 'protecting europe from cyber-attacks and widespread disruption: improving preparedness, security and resilience', be maintained and even developed in line with technological progress. the rapporteur believes that this requires a responsive, flexible, innovative and long-term framework, as this will enable effective interaction between governments, businesses and all other stakeholders. i voted for all of these ideas.
in writing. − in recent years, the internet has become an increasingly common tool in everyday life, both professionally and personally, with the entire european and global infrastructure expanding rapidly. a disruption of this network could cause significant losses to the administration, the business community or ordinary citizens. as such, i believe that a common policy is needed to protect these infrastructures, as well as the establishment of joint cyber emergency response teams (cert), leading to the development and implementation of national cyber security strategies. last but not least, it would be beneficial to include health, food and water supply, nuclear research and the nuclear industry among the sectors targeted for cooperation between eu states and third countries, for the development of warning systems and the exchange of good practices.
in writing. i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on critical information infrastructure protection achievements and next steps: towards global cyber-security, because i truly believe that it would be impossible to achieve the ambitious goals of the digital agenda for europe without a resilient and secure internet system. the eu must imperatively have a comprehensive internet security strategy and this report, in particular by calling on the commission, in cooperation with the member states, to assess the implementation of the ciip action plan and urging the member states to establish well-functioning national/governmental certs and national internet security strategies, properly addresses this fundamental need. in addition, the focus on the role of international cooperation for the development of a shared approach for tackling cybersecurity issues with all like-minded countries assumes a central relevance in the adopted report, which also maintains that internet security issues should be included in the scope of the future eu's external relations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 12 june 2012 on the protection of critical information infrastructures - achievements and next steps: towards a global cybersecurity context. we call on the commission, in cooperation with the member states, to assess the implementation of the ciip action plan and urge the member states to organise national cyber emergency response teams (cert), develop national cyber security strategies, organise regular national and pan-european cyber incident exercises, develop national cyber incident response plans and contribute to the development of a european cyber incident response plan by the end of 2012. we welcome the current proposal to revise enisa's mandate and to extend the agency's tasks. calls on the commission to propose, by the end of 2012, a comprehensive strategy on internet security, setting out the principles, objectives, methods, tools and policies (both internal and external) needed to streamline national and eu efforts and to establish minimum resilience standards between member states to ensure a secure, continuous, robust and resilient service, whether for critical infrastructure or for general internet use;
in writing. − strengthening the external dimension of the eu's energy policy will ensure that the union has secure, sustainable and affordable energy. i believe that there is a need for better coordination of member states' policies in this area and for closer cooperation between the council, the commission and the european external action service on matters relating to the common external energy policy, so that the european union can have an improved negotiating position vis-à-vis third countries. i voted in favor of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the european union must succeed in diversifying its sources and transport routes to ensure the security of its energy supply. to this end, coordination and coherence between external, energy and trade policies are needed. romania considers that the black sea has a major potential in achieving european energy security, representing a gateway to central asia and the caspian area. a concrete example is the agri interconnector project for the transport of liquefied natural gas, as well as the energy cooperation initiated with turkmenistan. at the same time, my country supports major projects such as the nabucco pipeline and the southern corridor, because their completion will allow energy diversification on the european market, but also reduce the current degree of dependence on certain energy sources or routes. at the same time, romania attaches particular importance to the interconnection of energy networks with neighbouring states. and the gas fields discovered in the black sea will allow romania, according to estimates, to be energy independent within three to four years.
in writing. - i agree with the rapporteur that europe is a major buyer of energy on world markets. this is an advantage because if there is a firm and common position at eu level in negotiations with third countries, then we could be a strong market player. i think that there needs to be a greater focus on research, development and innovation. a common approach to research is needed within the eu, as results can be more efficient, cost-effective and dynamic than if they were achieved by each member state individually.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because i believe that we need improved security of energy supply. on the one hand, the european commission needs to provide a clearer definition of 'energy solidarity' between eu member states, and on the other, there needs to be real diversification of suppliers, routes and sources of external energy supply. it is estimated that by 2030, global energy demand will increase by 40%. in addition, the eu's dependence on energy imports could also increase, despite efforts to improve energy efficiency and use renewable energy sources. the nabucco project could have contributed to a necessary diversification of energy supply sources. unfortunately, there is no visible progress towards the realisation of this ambitious european project.
in writing. − europe has set itself ambitious targets through the 20-20-20 package and a long-term commitment to decarbonise the european economy by 2050. research, development and innovation play a key role in achieving these objectives. i therefore believe that the european union and the member states must step up their efforts in this area in order to achieve an efficient and dynamic level of research activity. such cooperation could allow for better results than those achieved by each member state individually. last but not least, it is beneficial to continue cooperation in research, development and innovation with third countries, which will allow the european union to remain a major player globally, including in partnerships in international fora: the eu-russia dialogue, the eu-us, the energy charter, the energy community process and relations with other international bodies concerned with energy and climate.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on engaging in energy policy cooperation with partners beyond our borders: a strategic approach to secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply, because it addresses the crucial challenges of the union’s energy policy in its foreign relations, carefully taking into account the main aspect of security of energy supply. europe plays a key role in the global energy market, especially in terms of consumption. energy policy, therefore, must align the geopolitical and strategic role of the european union with its energy needs. this report, by creating a more coherent and coordinated approach by the member states, the council and the commission in shaping and achieving the union’s goal in this field, strengthens the position of the eu in negotiations with third countries. in addition, the report stresses the importance of parliament being appropriately involved in the consultation processes relating to energy policy, in line with the article 194 of the tfeu. this is of paramount importance for enabling democratic involvement when defining such crucial policies of the union, which will surely have a major impact on the quality of our citizens’ lives.
in writing. − energy policies are a priority for the european union and efforts to extend cooperation to as many of the community's neighbouring countries as possible should be encouraged and addressed with great seriousness. i regret, however, that the process of negotiations with a view to the enlargement of the energy community with countries such as turkey and the southern mediterranean countries is slow and difficult, although rapid measures are needed to enlarge the european energy system, based on strategic cooperation. i also believe that we must now focus our attention on urgent cooperation initiatives in the field of clean, renewable energy, in the context of the expected increase in the global population, which will lead to a significant increase in energy consumption over the next 20 years.
in writing. − i voted for the report on engaging in energy policy cooperation with partners beyond our borders: a strategic approach to secure, sustainable and competitive energy supply. i voted for the amendment which calls on the commission to draw up common energy roadmaps with all the main energy suppliers and with strategically important transit countries. we also called for partnerships with countries facing similar energy challenges to promote cooperation in technology, research and industry and to create common standards on renewable energy technologies, energy efficiency, electric vehicles, new and unconventional energy technologies, offshore drilling safety, and nuclear safety and non-proliferation. i would like to stress the geostrategic position of the black sea region in terms of diversifying energy sources and routes and renewable energy potential. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of the southern corridor, the nabucco project and the transcaspian pipeline, as well as other smaller projects. we call for the application of existing mechanisms and the creation of new ones within the european neighbourhood policy and the black sea synergy, in order to strengthen cooperation and the stability of the eu's energy supply.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − madam president, first of all can i say that i agree with mr salafranca that this is in our dna, and i am really pleased to have the opportunity to speak again in this house on the subject of human rights. as honourable members know, this is one of my top priorities, and i really value the opportunities to continue our discussions. may i also formally thank mr salafranca for the work he has done on his report. the recommendation that is before this house today is a welcome contribution to the preparations for the appointment of a special representative on human rights. i give absolute credit to parliament for championing this idea since its report in 2010. we have now reached the point where it commands a broad consensus across the political spectrum. i congratulate mr salafranca for delivering such an overwhelming vote in the committee on foreign affairs (afet). the broad consensus is the result of broad consultation. over the past few months my services have been canvassing opinions from this house, from member states, commission services and from ngos, and that has helped to ensure that the thinking of this house is reflected in the draft mandate which i presented to the council. honourable members, the mandate will be broad and flexible. i want the new special representative to work with me to set priorities, to be able to develop the themes that mr salafranca has so ably put before us: abolition of the death penalty, combating the use of torture, women’s rights, children’s rights, and to ensure that they are able to do that in the context of working collaboratively with the institutions of the european union and, of course, to work closely with the european external action service. the mandate will be longer than usual: two years instead of one. it is the first time ever that the european union will have appointed a thematic eu special representative so i believe it is important that the mandate should be long enough to start delivering on issues that are inherently long-term issues. i believe that the special representative will have significant experience and expertise. i am looking for somebody with an established track record, real experience in human rights and a strong understanding of european union policy. member states have put forward some excellent candidates, and i look forward to making a swift appointment. i do want to be clear that the special representative will be an important interlocutor for this parliament. you have my full commitment that he or she will be able to brief parliament regularly, fitting in line with existing arrangements. the special representative will also add considerable value to our existing work, and that may take the form of leading our human rights dialogues and consultations, where it is obvious that the special representative should be a natural interlocutor for our partners. communications and public diplomacy will be key. they need to help us to be more visible and to promote human rights across the whole range of the european union’s external policies. but just to be absolutely clear, i will remain personally as involved as ever, but with now, in the future, additional, high-level, expert support to work with me and with the team based in brussels – some of whom are with us today, and to whom i pay tribute for the extraordinary work done over these last few years. the special representative is part of the bigger package because, as you know, the council is due to adopt a strategic framework and an action plan on human rights and democracy too. preparation for this has taken account of input from members of this house in line with my undertaking to engage this house throughout the process. the latest of these exchanges took place today, just before this debate began, when my deputy secretary-general, maciej popowski, met with the contact group in parliament, under the chairmanship of mrs lochbihler. i hope that these contacts will continue and become a regular feature of our inter-institutional discussions on a more effective and comprehensive approach to human rights and democracy. i have always intended this process to be inclusive and to give the opportunity for all stakeholders in eu policy to contribute to defining our future priorities. madam president, i end as i began, with a thank you to mr salafranca for his report.
on behalf of the epp group. the treaty is clear: human rights are values on which the union is founded, but so are the union's relations with third countries. in this perspective, i remember lady ashton starting her term by declaring that human rights would be the guiding principle of foreign policy. but for the moment, the union's actions to promote human rights abroad are rather disparate, and the lack of coherence in this area has been criticised many times in this parliament. the appointment of a union special representative for human rights is intended to strengthen the coherence of european action in this area and, of course, we must welcome such an innovation. on the other hand, as long as we treat human rights as a separate field, covered by so-called human rights dialogues and not in high-level meetings between political leaders, i fear that our credibility will continue to suffer. the arab spring reminded us that human rights are universal, demonstrating that every individual wants his or her fundamental rights and freedoms to be respected. i therefore believe that the success of the mandate of the union special representative for human rights requires, beyond the institutional architecture, a political will on the part of the main european and national actors to guide their actions in accordance with the solemn proclamations of the treaties.
never have human rights been more important and brought about so many changes of government as they are in our time. events in the middle east and north africa have demonstrated the strong link between human rights and democracy. it is clear that the european union must change its reactions, since the states of the middle east and north africa are interested in seeing what solutions they can apply to the transition to a democratic state, to a state-building that includes the protection of human rights, which had been affected in the regimes prior to the arab revolutions. that is why the future human rights representative will need to have a strong mandate, be a key interlocutor for ngos, minorities, work with the united nations and lead consultations with third countries on human rights.
guns play an important role in ensuring security and the defence sector, but at the same time they can fuel conflict, violence and instability. that is why i argue that there is a need for clear regulations on the international arms trade. i also tabled an amendment in which i stressed the usefulness of specific provisions on the marking of weapons. at the same time, we highlighted the need for additional measures to ensure traceability from the producer to the end user. it is found in paragraph 9 of the resolution. the adoption of a multilateral legal instrument will allow for higher standards and more transparency in this area. however, for the new treaty to achieve its objectives, it must include concrete provisions on accountability mechanisms. in this context, i stress the need to pay greater attention to preventing and combating illicit arms trafficking. in 2011, global arms spending was €1.398 trillion, according to sipri data, representing 2.5% of global gdp. and a recent report by oxfam shows that in the past 12 years, embargoed countries have managed to purchase $2.2 billion worth of arms.
there are several areas of crisis in the middle east lately, but we must not neglect the israeli-palestinian relations, because they influence the stability of the entire region. i would like to stress once again that the union's policy in this area must be constructive and must avoid, first and foremost, the aggravation of tensions. it must show balance and reaffirm its support for the two-state solution, coexisting in peace and security. i would like to ask you, madam high representative, if there has been any dialogue with israel following the critical conclusions of the last middle east council. at the same time, i'd like to know your opinion on the peaceful reforms that jordan has initiated. do you think they can have a positive influence on other countries in the region?
in writing. – when king abdullah ii of jordan visited strasbourg about two month ago, the situation in syria looked somehow ‘stabilised’, with the regime still in control. the kofi annan mission looked poised to bring relief to the embattled people of syria and both russia and china seemed inclined to contemplate the cost of sustaining the assad regime to the end. two months later, all that is gone. the bloodshed continues at even higher levels, the regime is holding fiercely onto power, kofi annan’s plan has become questionable and russia in particular has toughened its stance to the point of preventing any potential external intervention to relieve the syrians of this nightmare. after all, the international community was able to unite and act – see bosnia and kosovo – in situations that were not apparently as bad as that existing in syria today. still, with all those shortcomings, the annan’s plan seems to be all that we have got, because, in lady ashton’s words–‘no other option has been able to gather any kind of international support’. sad, but true, this is how international politics works. the question is, how will we look into the eyes of the ordinary syrians when all this is over?
mr president, first of all i would like to congratulate my colleague mrs nedelcheva on her report and her commitment to the drc issue. this debate is an opportunity to reflect on a very interesting problem: the link between elections and democracy on african soil. there are indeed quite different cases. on the one hand, first of all, there are countries where the electoral process is taking place. the most recent example is senegal, where, despite some emotions before the elections, everything went well and a certain democratic stability is established. on the other hand, there are cases, like the most recent one in mali, where the military takes control and an electoral process is effectively blocked. in between these two limits are the more complicated cases, notably the drc - this is also the case in guinea - where electoral processes are organized and then, all of a sudden, there are postponements, post-electoral violence, a much more difficult and, in a way, unpredictable journey of democracy. what can we do? i believe it is our responsibility to support, on the one hand, the monitoring of the electoral process with our missions. on the other hand, as my colleague mr striffler has just mentioned, electoral support must of course be linked to development support.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i am happy with mrs ashton’s discourse. i am not happy with afghanistan’s future. according to the lisbon summit, the isaf mission will be finished in 2014. we are now analysing 10 years of partnership between the international community and afghanistan. what has happened in these ten years? we can all report some achievement in economics, in freedom, in human rights, in women’s rights, in healthcare, but are these achievements enough to consider afghanistan a stable and democratic country? is afghanistan today a country which certainly has a democratic future? if i look to the nato summit i see a lot of optimism. i believe that we must look behind this optimistic approach, and behind this optimistic approach we will see still increased drug production in afghanistan, increased corruption and widespread unemployment in that country. i am really sure that women can play an active role in democratisation, but for how long will women be allowed to play this role after the withdrawal of the isaf mission? i am afraid that our strategy for a future afghanistan is not a realistic one and it is going to be really difficult to implement. certainly, we need a strong partnership, not only between the european union and afghanistan, but i believe also between the united states and afghanistan. unfortunately, coming back to the nato summit, i can see one chair left empty. it is putin’s. maybe russia can start to play an active role in the area.
vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, let me begin by saying that those in this house who believe that we need to commit to afghanistan will recognise that this is a long-term commitment and that the stability and security not just of the region, but way beyond the region, are partly dependent on the success that afghanistan can achieve and the way that its people can be supported into a better future. there is no doubt too that this is a commitment that is difficult at times. it requires us to continue to push hard on ensuring that what we believe should be done by the afghan government is indeed done, and that we ensure that our resources are well spent. the european union spends eur 200 million a year in afghanistan on a range of different programmes to try and support stability, economic growth, the role of women, healthcare, rural development – a whole range of different projects – and especially to support the building of a civilian police force, so essential to the state’s future, when justice and the rule of law can be not only talked about but can be seen to be effective across the country. in addition, eur 1 billion are spent by member states across the european union to try and support these efforts. there are good news stories. unfortunately it is very difficult sometimes to understand the positive side of what is happening in afghanistan, but we have seen healthcare improve, infant mortality going down, and very many girls in school and finally getting the education they deserve. access to healthcare at a primary level, which used to be less than 10 %, is now more than 60 %. these are important, alongside many of the other ways in which we can try and support this country into the future. i am sorry that mr arlacchi feels disappointed in this. i know that you met with our chief operating officer a few weeks ago, and i hope that was a useful meeting. i will just comment on a couple of issues i know are of particular importance to you. we are supportive of the afghan-led peace process and reconciliation but we talked again in bonn about the ‘red lines’ that have been restated. we have to be clear that we need respect for the afghan constitution, including its human rights provisions; i believe that is indispensable. i believe you agree with me on that, because only then will this process be truly inclusive, representing the legitimate interests of all the people of afghanistan, regardless of gender, regardless of social status. we said in bonn that we must see the region respect and support the peace process and its outcome. so the istanbul process is under way and in a few days the ministerial regional conference in kabul should hopefully provide some real concrete evidence of the growing understanding by afghanistan’s neighbours that they have got a lot to gain from a sovereign, stable and united afghanistan. i know too that the proposals on eradication of opium cultivation were to set aside eur 100 million and to create an agency with its own budget and staff. but we have chosen to try and back the structures that we have actually got in place on the ground, to try and work with the ministry of counter narcotics, the ministry of rural development and the ministry of the interior, because, in truth, trying to eradicate the cultivation of drugs is about a whole raft of programmes. it means rural development, it means health, it means law enforcement and it means border management. what we also know, of course, is that the areas where you have greater persistence in opium poppy production are those that have neither security nor governance, so not areas where we are able to operate, nor indeed would we be able to pursue the policy in the way that i know you would wish to see. the commitment, though, is there. we have got to try and find ways to tackle the real issues that stand in the way of afghanistan going forward. but we have to recognise that this is a long-term commitment and a commitment that moves us beyond 2014 into the work we need to do on development. if we do not, i believe the consequences will be enormous, not just for the people of afghanistan, but actually for us too.
in writing. nato confirmed in chicago that isaf military operations in afghanistan will end in 2014, following a gradual transfer of responsibility to the afghan authorities. i stress again, as in my previous speeches on this subject, that the full participation of the afghan government is needed to ensure long-term stability. at the same time, international support must continue beyond 2014, in particular through training and assistance programmes. i believe that the eu can also make a valuable contribution to this process. i therefore welcome the council's decisions in may to support the stabilisation efforts in afghanistan and hope that they will be put into practice as soon as possible. to this end, i suggest that the possibility of structured cooperation between eupol and other training missions be explored. i also ask that special attention be paid to programmes to improve the situation of women in development assistance. i note that my country has already confirmed that it will maintain its commitment in afghanistan until the end of the isaf mission, aiming to ensure security in the zabul region. last but not least, i salute the courage and dedication of the romanian military, which contributes, sometimes at the cost of their lives, to the establishment of security, stability and democracy in afghanistan.
in writing. after eleven years of efforts by the international community, the current situation in afghanistan still requires significant improvements. violent extremism both inside and outside the region, the problem of drugs grown and produced in afghanistan, and socioeconomic indicators all highlight the need for a much more active eu role in the reconstruction and development of the region. the union's efforts should focus on improving the functioning of afghan government structures. the afghanistan strategy must focus on a strong engagement of afghan institutions and citizens in the development of their country with a view to achieving a stable government, supported by the international community, that focuses all its efforts on socio-economic development. the european union is one of the most important partners in afghanistan's reconstruction, through the logistical and material assistance it provides. i want to draw attention to the need for a reorientation of how aid is delivered to afghanistan and how it is distributed. i believe that more aid should be channelled directly through afghan institutions, rather than through international development and cooperation bodies. the legitimacy of the afghan government will be gained if it is responsible for implementing the aid.
this is 2012, not 2005. the procedure for adopting the budget has been changed. all horizontal policies shall be adopted by the co-decision procedure. i say this first of all for the danish presidency, which apparently has not read the treaty of lisbon. mr president, you said you had a very good working relationship with parliament. please prove this and withdraw from the proposal for (incomprehensible) negotiation all the elements that need to be decided by co-decision between parliament and the council. i think your efforts should have been directed towards an agreement between the member states on own resources first and then the amount of the budget, not on the elements to be decided by codecision. we're talking about growth and jobs in a time of crisis. the european budget is one of the means that can contribute to this growth. 95% of the european budget is directed towards investment and creates growth and jobs in all member states, both contributors and beneficiaries. the future budget must at least match the current level and be directed towards growth and jobs. this can only be done through horizontal policies. i believe that parliament must take the initiative and start negotiations with the council on all policies, in order to put a concrete proposal on the table for the european council, including even figures, financial proposals.
in writing. thank you, mr. president, i'm quite impressed but also concerned by our debate today. i am concerned that everyone, at home, with all the reforms and all the austerity measures adopted, sees with our own eyes that we are in an almost unprecedented social situation. yes, we need growth that generates the millions of jobs that europe's young people and not only them are waiting for in every corner of our union. these young people will really believe that we are doing our duty, that the union budget is not a budget for brussels, when they find a job for which they have been trained and which will enable them to start their lives. the situation we've been in for too long is a matter of extreme urgency. i shall confine myself to this aspect, it is essential that europe should not remain a beautiful project, but an empty one, unconnected with the life of a generation that wants to carry it forward. thank you, god help you!
in writing. the negotiation of the future multiannual financial framework is a complex and sensitive process which will lay the foundations for the union's economic and political action for the next seven years. seven years that we hope will be seven years of growth and economic recovery. that is why we need a strong investment budget, one that is as united as possible for all the member states. regional policy, the common agricultural policy, research policy, erasmus, support for smes - these policies have become the basic pillars of the european economy today and are in fact the real engines of the single market. but to achieve them, we need a budget that can meet the challenges ahead: globalisation, climate and demographic change, the transformation of the economy to one based on new technologies. negotiation is the art of compromise, but when it comes to the future financial framework, the european parliament has defined a set of minimum criteria to which we will not yield: • keeping the budget at least at 2013 levels • a higher share of own resources • and for the european parliament to be recognised as a true negotiating partner. we all know we need this budget, and i'm confident that eventually we'll find a middle ground.
in writing. as representatives of european citizens, we have a duty to ensure a well-funded, transparent and fair budget that is focused on results. that is why i believe that the european union needs investment in its priority areas more than ever. i believe that directing expenditure towards policies that have proven to be a real success, such as cohesion policy, can continue to provide real added value, boosting economic growth and the european union's global competitiveness.
in writing. the european council on 28-29 june will address issues of economic policy, the multiannual financial framework, as well as the governance of the schengen system and asylum. in defining and implementing its policies and actions, the union shall take into account requirements relating to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion, as well as requirements relating to a high level of education, vocational training and the protection of human health. i believe that the union needs a common agenda for growth and job creation, with a particular focus on youth employment. we call on the heads of state and government to define and adopt this agenda. in this context, the multiannual financial framework is an effective instrument to help achieve economic growth in the eu. as regards the governance of the schengen system, we call for the use of the co-decision process and the involvement of the european parliament in all decisions concerning the free movement of persons, one of the eu's greatest achievements. we also support the accession of romania and bulgaria to the schengen area, as both the commission and the european parliament have repeatedly recognised that the two countries meet the necessary technical criteria.
i too voted in favour of this report because it proposes the right approach to the revision of the gsp. the gsp is one of the main instruments contributing to the achievement of the union's foreign and development policy objectives. we must therefore ensure that the current reform will enable it to maintain and better fulfil its role. to this end, i support the rapporteur's position that the structure of the commission's proposal should be maintained. in principle, i agree with the reduction in the number of countries benefiting from generalised tariff preferences, but i think that a special clause is needed for countries which have concluded a free trade agreement. i also support the mandatory review of the regulation after ten years; it is the right time to be able to effectively assess the functioning of the system.
i voted for this report because appropriate measures must be taken to limit the proportions of excessive debt and to avoid future crises. it is welcome in the context of the financial and sovereign debt crisis facing the euro area countries. further strengthening of the stability and growth pact is needed to ensure financial stability and economic growth in the euro area. i stress the importance of protecting member states from the possible negative effects of serious financial disruption, and the combination of the six-pack and the two new reports is aimed at doing just that. i also believe that the economic and social problems caused by the crisis must be seen in their entirety. the budgetary situation in the member states should therefore be taken into account, as well as the investments needed to improve it.
i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu budget is an important instrument, one that generates growth and new jobs. it can put the european economy back on track, while fostering economic and social cohesion. i believe that the budget should play a strategic role, strengthening the eu's role as a global actor. at the same time, i would like to underline its importance in the context of achieving the union's political objectives. i would point out that there should be a balance between income from own resources and expenditure. the multiannual financial framework should be sufficiently flexible to ensure that budgetary resources are aligned with current circumstances. in this context, reform of the own resources system could generate more fairness, helping to create a transparent, predictable and accountable framework.
i voted in favour of this resolution because a trade agreement can bring important benefits to both sides. but the interests of european industry must be taken into account and defended in this process. therefore, before opening negotiations, a number of issues need to be overcome. i am referring in particular to the non-tariff trade barriers applied by japan, which create an imbalance in relations with european economic actors. the automobile industry is among the hardest hit. for this reason, i too support the proposal to postpone the decision on the launch of negotiations for a trade agreement. i believe that parliament should be able to give its opinion on this subject, following an analysis in the committee. i ask the council to respect the view expressed by parliament.
i voted in favour of this report because the new eu special representative for human rights must live up to the expectations it generates. to this end, it needs a clear and comprehensive mandate to ensure the cohesion of european policies in this area. i support the idea of the special representative chairing the high-level human rights dialogues. this will ensure a coherent and unified approach in the union's relations with other countries. i also believe that the person who will occupy this post must become a natural interlocutor for the other international and regional organisations. at the same time, a close relationship with parliament needs to be ensured. i am thinking, first of all, of the organisation of the initial hearing, but also of the constant exchange of views within the committee on foreign affairs.
i voted in favour of this resolution because the congo has not fully emerged from the spiral of violence and instability that has plagued it for so long. in the east, clashes between rebel groups and the armed forces continue. the security situation has deteriorated again, causing displacement of the civilian population. as i have said in other similar cases, the priorities in these circumstances must be to stop the violence and deliver emergency humanitarian aid. and for their realization, it is essential to ensure full compliance with the arms embargo. at the same time, democratic progress in the congo must be encouraged in parallel with the stabilisation process. to this end, it is necessary to fully implement the recommendations of the union election observation mission in order to avoid a repetition of irregularities in future elections.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i consider that mrs iliana ivanova has the qualifications and experience to perform the duties of a member of the court of auditors effectively and adequately. ms ivanova has significant experience in the field of audit, management and financial reporting in both the public and private sectors. his work in the european parliament, particularly in the cont committee, complements this experience. at the same time, i consider that ms ivanova provided convincing and reasoned answers to the questions in the specific questionnaire, including on issues related to independence and integrity. i consider them a guarantee of the impartiality and objectivity with which he will exercise his future function. last but not least, i appreciate that ms ivanova's experience as a member of the european parliament will prove useful for interinstitutional communication and coordination at eu level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the european union, as a global actor with major responsibility, involvement and visibility, must adopt clear, coherent and coordinated positions at the un level, enabling the achievement of the fundamental objectives of peace and security, human rights and development. the eu needs to continue to engage in strengthening global governance, supporting the un as a central element of effective multilateralism. at the same time, it should support the continuation of the reform process of the organisation, with a view to ensuring increased legitimacy, efficiency and responsiveness. i stress the importance of strengthening the operational partnership to ensure the effectiveness of peacekeeping and peacebuilding missions, in particular where csdp civilian capabilities provide support to un missions. i believe that the development of the union's mediation capacities must be continued in order to maximise its positive impact in conflict prevention and resolution. i call on the high representative and the eeas to pay close attention to this matter. i welcome the provisions on the gender dimension and the involvement of women at all stages of peace processes, in accordance with security council resolution 1325/2000. i believe that the union needs to be more actively involved in its implementation at global level, including through partnerships with other states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep recommendation to the council on the 67th session of the un general assembly. the eu needs to increase its level of cohesion to remain a major player in an increasingly multipolar world, which requires concerted global action. i believe that maximum coordination is needed, common positions should be put forward and the eu's coherence and visibility as a global actor in the un should be improved. the eu and its member states are among the largest financial contributors to the un system. the eu-27 finances 39% of the un's normal budget and over 40% of un peacekeeping operations. i think it is important to ensure that the proportion of overall european aid channelled through the eu budget is not reduced and that it maintains its poverty and hunger dimension. given the eu's support for the 'education for all' initiative and its commitment to play a role in global health, 20% of all eu assistance should be allocated to basic social services, with a particular focus on free and universal access to basic health and primary education services.
in writing. − the eu's generalised system of preferences was introduced in the 1970s and the preferences granted are intended to complement the common commercial policy with the policy of development cooperation in favour of developing countries, representing a system of tariff preferences granted unilaterally by the eu to products originating in these countries. the gsp is based on three fundamental rules: preferences are general, non-reciprocal and non-discriminatory. the eu offers low customs duties or tax exemptions for 178 countries and territories, while granting special benefits to the 50 least developed countries and to those that apply labour and environmental protection standards. the gsp scheme can have a longer-term effect in that it improves the attractiveness of preference countries as inward processing locations, stimulating fis who subsequently wish to export to the eu market. in general, trade experts have had difficulty in identifying another positive effect of trade preferences on gsp exports, apart from the transfer of the rent associated with duty-free entry of goods.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the application of a system of tariff preferences, considering that a revision of this framework was a necessity. by removing high-income, upper-middle-income and those already in a preferential bilateral agreement with the union from the list of beneficiary countries, we ensure that countries that have achieved a high level of development are not unfairly favoured.
in writing. − i believe that the purpose of this key trade instrument - the gsp - is to enable developing countries to participate more intensively in international trade and thus generate additional export revenues, to support income growth and the implementation of their own sustainable development and poverty reduction policies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council applying a scheme of generalised tariff preferences, because it improves the coherence and coordination of the union’s aid for the development of the poorer countries in the world. i positively welcome the interconnection made between the concessions granted to those countries and the need for improvements, on their side, concerning human rights, labour rights and sustainability. this represents, in my view, the best way to guarantee the delivery of help to the people, by building up, at the same time, more trustworthy governance systems in their countries, which will result in a better future and more reliable partnership. unfortunately, the suggestion made by the s&d group to include more low-income countries in the generalised scheme of preferences (gsp) did not get enough support from other political groups. this report, nevertheless, is the result of a good compromise, which i am confident will manage to deliver a significant contribution to the development of those countries more in need.
in writing. − as recent developments in the euro area have shown, the increasing interdependence between european states in the context of the widening effects of the recession is the main challenge facing the european union in the short term. the possibility that economic and fiscal problems in one state can have effects of extreme gravity at union level is a major vulnerability that needs to be addressed through a set of pragmatic and effective public policies. the priority at this stage is to restore the credibility of monetary union, and several of the solutions proposed in these reports can make a decisive contribution towards achieving this objective. as the experience of recent years has shown the great importance of decisive action taken in good time, the adoption of procedures for supervising the financial stability of states facing economic problems is one of the solutions expected by markets and international investors from the european authorities. the legislative package needs to be strengthened by the procedures proposed by the european parliamentarians, in order to ensure the stability and credibility that european states need, and to prevent the spread of the difficulties to other economies in time. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the experiences of our countries from 2008 to date show that our rapporteur is right when he proposes that there is a need for increased surveillance for the euro area states. in addition, there is a need for speed, for timely action. we know that the procedures of our institutions take time, they consume time. that is why i voted to put the responsibility on the commission and to allow the council to reject the decision by a simple majority within 10 days.
in writing. - i voted for this report, respecting the group's line, namely the political agreement between s&d and the epp to support both the gauzès and ferreira reports.
in writing. − the establishment of economic and budgetary monitoring measures for euro area countries experiencing financial disturbances is undoubtedly an important step in preventing situations of serious long-term financial destabilisation that automatically have a negative 'domino' effect on other member states, whether inside or outside the euro area. what i regret, however, is that these measures should have been taken much earlier and could have avoided or ameliorated financial imbalances in some member states, as is the case in greece today, which is going through a critical period of serious economic and budgetary difficulties which will be difficult to resolve without greatly affecting other countries. at the same time, i believe that strict legislation to this end encourages dialogue between the various european institutions, in order to decide in a responsible and coherent way on the most appropriate means of financial assistance to be provided to states in difficulty.
in writing. − this regulation comes in the context of the financial and sovereign debt crisis currently facing the union. several member states (portugal, ireland, greece and this week spain) have requested financial assistance. i support the commission's proposal that a member state whose currency is the euro should be subject to increased surveillance when it is experiencing or is likely to experience serious financial disturbances. it is necessary to return quickly to a normal situation and to protect the other euro area member states against possible negative spill-over effects. my country, romania, is not yet part of the euro area, but its economy is deeply linked to that of the countries that have adopted the single currency, and so any imbalance in the euro area is immediately felt in romanian markets. i therefore believe that countries that are not part of the euro area or are in the process of joining (romania wants to join the single currency) must also be co-decision-makers.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that there is a need for further monitoring of the budgetary decisions of the member states. strengthening economic governance in the union and in the euro area in particular is essential at this time. in this context, the detection and correction of macroeconomic imbalances should be timely. i welcome the establishment of a common budgetary calendar and rules-based budgetary frameworks. the synchronised monitoring of policies, in accordance with the excessive deficit procedure, is also important for strengthening budgetary discipline. i would also point out that budgetary surveillance must be in line with the overall objectives of the european union. the guarantee of adequate social protection must also be considered and greater importance must be attached to the degree of employment. i stress that the union's budgetary policy must be aligned with the europe 2020 strategy in order to ensure smart and sustainable growth.
in writing. - i voted for the rapporteur's proposal. we need a common budgetary timetable, we need rules, we need oversight.
in writing. - i voted for the ferreira report, following the line of my political group, in order to remain consistent with the vote on the six-pack. we stand for the same principles: against austerity, for investing in human capital through job creation. at the same time, i find it disappointing that the epp decided to vote against the 'golden rule' proposed by my colleague elisa ferreira, whereby public investment would no longer be calculated to measure a country's deficit and debt under the stability and growth pact. this would have allowed states to invest more without fear of being penalized.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on monitoring and evaluating draft budgetary plans and ensuring that excessive deficits are corrected in the euro area member states. in defining and implementing its policies and actions, the union shall take into account requirements relating to the promotion of a high level of employment, the guarantee of adequate social protection, the fight against social exclusion, as well as requirements relating to a high level of education, vocational training and the protection of human health. i believe that due attention should be paid to the union's strategy for growth and employment and to the way it is implemented by the member states through their national reform programmes. medium-term fiscal plans shall contain an updated projection of multiannual expenditure as a percentage of gdp for general government and its main components, as well as multiannual expenditure targets and commitments to achieve the objectives included in the union strategy for growth and jobs. the timetable for the joint budgetary plan shall be consistent with the budgetary timetables of the member states. strengthening economic governance should also include a closer and timely involvement of the european parliament and national parliaments.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i too support extending the geographical scope of the ebrd operations to the south and east of the mediterranean. the main objective of the european bank for reconstruction and development is to contribute to economic progress and reconstruction. the report thus aims to support the transition to a market economy and to promote entrepreneurship and private initiative in the countries concerned. the political and economic situation in the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean has led to the development of an ebrd strategy, which aims at a multi-stage approach tailored to the specific requirements of these countries. i draw attention to the fact that the bank should contribute to the transition towards energy efficiency and an open and inclusive market economy, while taking into account the social, civic and human rights context. i also believe that the principles of banking prudence, transparency and anti-fraud should be taken into account in the ebrd's activities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution because i am satisfied with the results of the trialogue with the commission and the council. the european parliament amended the commission proposal to include aspects of the effective implementation of international law principles on corporate responsibility, employee rights and access to information on the environmental impact of projects financed by the ebrd. as shadow rapporteur of my political group in the ep, s&d, i also introduced the requirement that the bank should broaden its horizon so as to finance projects that are socially and environmentally equitable, in the spirit of the millennium development goals.
in writing. − the european union wishes to support the efforts of the countries of the southern mediterranean to transition the region towards a market economy and a pluralist democratic society, and the extension of the european bank for reconstruction and development's area of activity in the area is the implementation of this support of the union and the international community for the hopes generated by the 'arab spring'. i welcome the support of the ebrd for projects aimed at, inter alia, promoting sustainable development, poverty eradication, environmental protection and human rights protection, as well as encouraging the private sector, with a focus on developing entrepreneurship among young people.
in writing. - the events that gave rise to the 'arab spring' have not only resulted in the democratisation of the states of the southern and eastern mediterranean, but also in the opening of a dialogue and long-term cooperation with the structures of the european union, which can only be of benefit to the states concerned, with a view to their rapid and sustainable reconstruction. therefore, the inclusion of these countries in the scope of the ebrd will certainly facilitate the transition to an open market economy, but will also encourage cooperation with the eu countries in various sectors of the economy, one of which is the energy sector itself, which is of priority importance in the current global context. on the other hand, i am concerned about the possible consequences of this geographical expansion of the ebrd's operations, namely disruptions caused by various fraudulent or non-transparent actions by these states, since the transition from a closed communist regime to a democratic, open society is not an easy or risk-free process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the decision on the amendments to the agreement establishing the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) to extend the geographical scope of the ebrd's operations to the south and east of the mediterranean. since its inception in 1991, the ebrd has supported the countries of central and eastern europe in their transition to an open market economy and in promoting private initiative and entrepreneurship. in response to the economic and political situation in the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean, the ebrd has developed a gradual approach to its business start-up, which will take into account the specificities of the region. the geographical scope of the ebrd should therefore also include the countries of the southern and eastern mediterranean in order to promote similar objectives. the representatives of the union on the governing bodies of the ebrd should encourage the ebrd to expand its work on private sector development in order to contribute, also through its financing, to the achievement of a socially and environmentally sustainable society. the contribution of the ebrd to the transition to an open, energy-efficient and socially inclusive market economy should be encouraged, while taking into account the social context, civil and human rights.
in writing. − i believe that the budget of the european union must present an appropriate balance between own resources in relation to the multiannual financial framework and expenditure, as required by the treaty, and thus support the consolidation efforts of the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union needs a solid budget for the period 2004-2020, in line with the increasingly ambitious objectives it has set itself and in particular the europe 2020 strategy. in the context of the economic and financial crisis, the european union is increasingly in need of investment and inclusive social policies and it is therefore important that the next financial framework provides a significant contribution to these objectives and, in particular, a budget suitable for cohesion policy. at the same time, the european union needs to restructure its budget in order to attract more of its own resources, in particular by introducing a financial transaction tax.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament's resolution on the multiannual financial framework and own resources. i voted for paragraph 3, where parliament insists that the eu budget should present an appropriate balance between own resources and expenditure, as required by the treaty. the next multiannual financial framework (mff) cannot be adopted without a political agreement on reforming the own resources system, ending current cuts and other corrective mechanisms and leading to more transparency, fairness and sustainability. we welcome the legislative proposals made by the commission on 29 june 2011 on reforming the own resources system, including the proposal for a financial transaction tax (ftt) and a new vat as own resources. these measures aim to reduce the gdp-based share of member states' contributions to the eu budget by up to 40% by 2020, thus supporting member states' consolidation efforts. i voted against amendment no 4, which deletes from the text the part insisting on the principle of unity in the eu budget and stressing that all eu policies and programmes should be included in the mff together with the corresponding funding, thus helping to ensure transparency, predictability and accountability.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on trade negotiations between the european union and japan. i share the view of many colleagues that as long as japan is not prepared to make concessions in the area of non-tariff barriers, negotiations on a free trade agreement should not be started. before authorising the opening of negotiations, the council should therefore respect the european parliament's role as co-legislator in the field of international trade and await its formal position on the negotiating mandate.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the eu's trade negotiations with japan. japan's ability to remove regulatory barriers to trade is a precondition for the opening of negotiations on the eu-japan trade agreement, thus fostering deeper economic integration between the two strategic trading partners. at the 20th eu-japan summit in brussels on 28 may 2011, the leaders attending the summit decided that the two sides would begin discussions to define the scope and level of ambition of these negotiations. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the eu-japan trade negotiations to include the eu-japan trade negotiations. i ask the council not to authorise the opening of trade negotiations until parliament has expressed its position on the proposed negotiating mandate on the basis of a report drawn up by the committee responsible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution concerning the free trade agreement with colombia and peru. i believe that a free trade agreement will be in favour of the european union and the two andean countries. concerning the main issue in this process – the status of human rights – it is stated clearly in the resolution that the andean countries should ensure the establishment of a transparent and binding road map on human, environmental and labour rights, which should be aimed essentially at safeguarding human rights, enhancing and improving trade unionists’ rights and protecting the environment. i strongly agree with all the above-mentioned conditions, and i am sure that the governments of colombia and peru will take the necessary measures to comply with this.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu-colombia-peru trade agreement, as this agreement aims to open up markets for goods, services, public procurement and investment and to promote global economic development. the aim of the agreement is to reduce poverty and create new employment opportunities, improve working conditions and raise living standards by liberalizing and expanding trade and investment between the territories of the countries party to the agreement. the union is the second most important trading partner for colombia and peru. the planned trade agreement provides for the full liberalisation of trade in industrial products and fisheries, which could lead to a long-term increase of up to 1.3% of colombian gdp and up to 0.7% of peruvian gdp. an important part of the agreement is devoted to respect for human rights and democratic principles. failure to comply with them would also lead to the possibility of denouncing or suspending the agreement in part or in full. in this regard, we call on both andean countries to ensure the establishment of a transparent and binding roadmap on human rights and labour rights.
in writing. − the appointment of a european union special representative for human rights reflects the strong commitment of the member states and the european institutions to the regional and international protection of the human rights regime and democratic values. in order for the special representative's actions to be able to fully exploit the potential of this function, active and effective cooperation between the special representative and the european legislator is necessary. although the appointment of the representative remains the prerogative of the council, i consider that the presentation of an annual report of his work to all the union authorities, as well as the hearing/exchange of views with the ep's committee responsible, is an essential condition for the transparency and legitimacy of the eu's actions to protect human rights internationally. they also support the need to establish effective cooperative relations between the special representative and international institutions or non-governmental organisations with a long tradition in the protection of human rights, and to provide substantial institutional and financial support from the european authorities for the fulfilment of the mandate of the future representative.
in writing. − recent events in syria, where the assad regime's abuses have turned to carnage, and in libya after the removal of gaddafi, as well as the deteriorating human rights situation in many other countries, make the need for the appointment of an eu special representative for human rights more urgent than ever. in the eu treaties, there is this firm commitment to promote human rights and democracy in all its external actions. the eusr shall be given a strong, independent and flexible mandate. it must be given the freedom to act quickly and effectively in the face of events that require an urgent response. i hope that we will have close cooperation with the council in this respect, given parliament's constant and substantial concern for the defence of human rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a european parliament recommendation to the council on the eu special representative for human rights, because i believe that, given the central importance of the human rights doctrine in the eu and for its external relations, the appointment of the eu special representative (eusr) for human rights constitutes a matter of coherence and effectiveness of eu action. the adopted report contains a list of recommendations to the council, some of the more important being, in my view, those stressing the importance of transparency of the eusr selection procedures, the crucial need to provide him/her with a strong, independent and flexible mandate and the need for cooperation with representatives of local, regional and national civil society, ngos, experts, and regional and international organisations acting in this field. it is also important that the representative for human rights be supported in his/her work by sufficient human and financial resources: this is not only a matter of effectiveness of his/her action, but also a crucial requirement for granting the eusr the sufficient visibility of its position, crucial for the achievement and diffusion of the eu’s goals in the field of hr protection.
in writing. − the appointment of the eu special representative (eusr) for human rights would strengthen the visibility and coherence of the union’s human rights policy and its commitment to human rights around the world. although it is formally a council decision, the special representative should work together with the council working group on human rights and its political and security committee. the parliament should play its part by keeping the special representative under regular review during his/her mandate and making annual progress reports. the mandate should be flexible, strong and ensure independence in order to act swiftly and decisively to promote democracy, the rule of law, international justice and international humanitarian law worldwide.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the eu special representative for human rights. the treaty on european union reaffirms the eu's commitment to promoting human rights and democracy in all its external action, while ensuring coherence and consistency between the different areas of its external action and between these and its other policies. the eusr for human rights should act and speak on behalf of the union, reflecting the common and indivisible responsibility of all eu institutions and member states for the protection and promotion of human rights worldwide. the appointment of an eu special representative for human rights should increase the visibility and coherence of the eu's human rights policy as a fundamental component of the eu's common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and contribute to promoting the eu's human rights profile globally. i believe that, in the implementation of his mandate, the special representative for human rights should cooperate with representatives of local, regional and national civil society, ngos, experts, as well as regional and international organisations working in the field of human rights and democracy.
in writing. - unfortunately, a series of outbreaks of violence, fuelled by arms trafficking, often illegal, persists. there is an international legal framework, verification mechanisms, but also plenty of loopholes and a lot of hypocrisy in the criteria for transferring weapons to sensitive areas. often, profit-making criteria take precedence over the dramas fueled by the arms trade. that is why i believe that a redefinition of these criteria would be welcome, to include aspects such as good governance, strict respect for human rights and the fight against corruption that accompanies the arms trade. the eu must play a greater role in this monitoring mechanism, in defining the criteria and in negotiating their acceptance by all signatories to the arms trade treaty. if this arms trade cannot be excluded from the life of nations, we must ensure that they are used only for self-defense and under strict rules.
in writing. − the deterioration of the situation in the democratic republic of congo, in particular the continuing atrocities in kivu province, is of grave concern. the number of casualties has increased at a shocking rate, with civilians, especially children, women and the elderly, being the most affected. thousands of women have been raped, mutilated, and killed, and many of the survivors are infected with hiv. the perpetrators of these crimes must be punished. the fight against impunity and the strengthening of the judicial system are therefore needed. we should insist more on the creation of a special tribunal to try cases of genocide, war crimes and crimes against humanity. in a country where three quarters of the population live in poverty and which is facing a serious refugee crisis, the lack of democratic elections and human rights violations are locking congolese society into a vicious cycle of instability, violence and underdevelopment. i therefore call on the commission to act to ensure that the congolese authorities implement the recommendations of the report of the eu eom.
i am convinced that of all the instruments and institutions created by the crisis, the european semester is, in my view, perhaps the most important and can become the most effective instrument for preventing and correcting financial, budgetary and economic imbalances and for preventing a new crisis in the future. i hope that the european commission will be equally firm on how the member states will implement the recommendations, because what we call the european semester is basically a continuous process, which lasts for a year and will be repeated every year. but i would also like to stress a very important aspect, which concerns the national parliaments: the role of national parliaments in the european semester. i would like to tell you that, at the initiative of the danish presidency, a meeting of the national parliaments took place this spring, which also discussed their role in the european semester. i noted then the desire of these national parliaments to be part of this process. national parliaments now have a direct say in how governments take the necessary steps to implement the recommendations made in the european semester. and i think it is important to continue this exchange of experience between national parliaments, at the initiative of the european parliament, so that they really feel that they are a direct, responsible part of this process which is the european semester.
corporate law is particularly important and, together with corporate governance, can, if well written, provide an impetus for foreign investment. whether company law and corporate governance are to be dealt with together or separately, i believe it is essential for european companies to benefit from a flexible regulatory framework, and this can only be done within a code of conduct. the 'apply or explain' principle must therefore be the solution, with strict application of sanctions, where exceptions to the rules are not explained in a transparent and comprehensive manner. the code of conduct must also be a single, community code, otherwise we cannot speak of european legislation. the code of conduct in this case must apply to listed companies because only the number of shareholders is important in this process; other indicators, such as turnover or the number of employees, are socially irrelevant. of course, there are also situations where rules can go beyond the flexible framework of a code of conduct. and i want to give you an example of conflicts of interest: they need to be sanctioned and discouraged, to protect investors and employees. i hope commissioner barnier agrees that we need investment and jobs created through market instruments and not through strict rules which are seen by investors as obstacles in their way.
we all agree that the future belongs to young people, but unfortunately, at the level of the european union, they have been the most affected by the economic crisis and the structural problems of the labour market. in some member states the situation is alarming and i believe that it is absolutely necessary to take immediate measures to improve their situation both at community and national level. i recommend that member states pay greater attention to this population group and include well-funded axes specifically dedicated to youth employment in the structure of future national policy frameworks. we must seize all the opportunities offered by community programmes and policies and thus ensure a prosperous and secure future for europe's young people.
in writing. – with eu unemployment hitting record levels and forecasts of a dramatic economic outlook for the months ahead we, as socialists, should come up with a set of concrete measures to boost jobs for the citizens of europe. the eu needs a dynamic and inclusive european labour market and we need investments for job creation, mainstreaming of the ilo’s decent work agenda, protection of labour law in smes, combating of illegal work and forced self-employment, and minimum wages to fight in-work poverty and social dumping. moreover, we should continue to fight to obtain some other important aspects which are essential for the wealth of the citizens like: solidarity in taxation systems, coordinated collective bargaining as a factor for social cohesion and the fight against in-work poverty through living wages. to accelerate job creation, we need proposals towards a european investment plan, a coherent european industrial strategy and investment in public services, based on new sources of revenue, including a financial transactions tax and eurobonds, giving priority to investments that promote a sustainable economy, quality jobs and social justice. finally, i appreciate that the ec sent a strong message to governments to lift restrictions on labour market access for workers from bulgaria and romania.
in writing. in its communication on employment of 19 april, the european commission refers to the importance of a minimum wage and decent working conditions, and thus distances itself from the strategy of austerity and labour market liberalisation that some european countries continue to pursue. the austerity administered to workers, as we have seen with regret in greece and spain, has had nothing but disastrous results, causing unemployment and poverty. the european commission's proposal can also be improved by introducing more concrete aspects of political direction. the european union urgently needs a common investment plan that prioritises investments that create quality jobs, such as in education, health or research. to support these investments, member states have no alternative but to show solidarity. the financial transaction tax and the pooling of part of the public debt are a necessity if the tragic history of a divided europe is not to be repeated.
in writing. history provides too many examples of devastating industrial accidents involving dangerous chemicals that take lives and destroy the environment. although community legislation has evolved to reduce the frequency and impact of these accidents, since the accident in hungary in 2010, we have all understood that further improvements and revisions of community rules are needed to strengthen the protection of communities and the environment against these potential catastrophes. for several years i have opposed a mining project in romania which, in the event of an accident, would damage a vast region, valuable both from the point of view of the environment and biodiversity, and from the cultural and historical point of view, by pollution with cyanide. the public is rightly concerned that the initiators of such projects deny transparency and public access to objective and balanced information. they should be legally obliged to provide accurate and complete information, guaranteeing transparency. i appreciate the fact that this report focuses on public information and the rights of citizens to know about the potential dangers that lie around them. i will continue to promote transparency and public debate on other projects, such as shale gas and mining projects.
in writing. i would like to welcome the results of the negotiations with the council and the compromise package reached. this update of the legislation brings the added security that eu citizens needed. the legislation in question strengthens the policy of preventing chemical accidents and of responding to them by operators and authorities responsible in the event of accidents, in order to ensure a high level of protection of human health and the environment. in addition to requiring operators to implement a series of measures to continuously improve major accident prevention, stricter standards for industrial plant inspections are also introduced. it is of the utmost importance for the public to be able to access information on their legitimate concerns regarding the safety of the environment in which they live, as well as to have access to information on how to react in the event of accidents involving dangerous substances. in this respect, i welcome the fact that the compromise package includes these rights mentioned above, as well as provisions on public participation in decision-making.
on behalf of the s&d group. first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur for taking into account the recommendations of her colleagues, both during the preparation of this report and with regard to the amendments. in my view, the purpose of these regulations is to ensure that people have access to accurate and relevant information about the food they eat. in recent years, european union legislation has made great progress on food labelling, and as a result, transparency and consumer protection have increased. but the old dietary laws are a hindrance to this development. that is why i welcomed the commission's proposal and the improvements made to it in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. one of my main concerns in this case was the issue of labelling and advertising of infant formula and infant formula. as we know, in many cases, even in spite of advice or regulation, breast-milk substitutes are aggressively promoted. meanwhile, statistics confirm that the percentage of mothers who breastfeed remains low throughout the european union. legislative loopholes are exploited which either allow the rules on advertising to be circumvented or make their enforcement more difficult. i opposed the inclusion in these regulations of so-called 'growth milk', the product intended for young children. we had a good reason: there is no evidence to support that this product offers any nutritional benefits compared to a normal, balanced diet. this product is not a food for special medical purposes; it is just a costly substitute for regular milk and a balanced diet. because it is still in stores, advertising claims made by manufacturers about the quality of the product must be very strictly justified. the purpose of these regulations is clear: to help people make informed food choices and to opt for a healthy and balanced diet. (the speaker agreed to answer a question after the blue card had been raised, in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer to the blue card. because perhaps the existing legislation has certain loopholes that are exploited in a disadvantageous way and this situation has been reached so far. we need to have more stringent legislation, which is respected and which is adopted in such a way that everything is very clear and we can finally arrive at the solutions we want.
in writing. after more than 30 years, the rules on food for special nutritional purposes as laid down in framework directive 2009/39/ec no longer meet consumer needs and the latest market developments. we need a legislative framework that will provide citizens with a high level of food safety, especially when food is intended for vulnerable groups such as infants, young children and people with special illnesses. european citizens must be properly informed when choosing what to eat and not be misled when they opt for a healthy and balanced diet.
in writing. the european union has always had a model legislative framework for foodstuffs with a special nutritional purpose which is highly appreciated. however, recent developments in the food market and food law have shown that major changes are needed. i consider that the application of the concept of 'food with a special nutritional purpose' on which this framework directive is based, in the light of the evolution of the market situation, has led to considerable problems for the parties concerned and for the supervisory authorities. food safety, especially for food intended for vulnerable groups such as infants, young children and people with special diseases, is an essential condition for its free movement and for the proper functioning of the internal market within the european union. i therefore believe that a european solidarity policy is needed at union level, with legislative measures to eliminate these differences between national legislation on foodstuffs for special nutritional uses, thus allowing their free movement and creating a level playing field for competition.
if nothing is done before the quota system expires in 2015, the high quota values will prevent the most productive farmers from benefiting from new opportunities, while the least productive farmers in disadvantaged areas, especially mountain areas, would face great difficulties due to a significant drop in prices following the drastic elimination of the quota system. in this context, the question naturally arises as to whether and what kind of measures should be taken to ensure a slow transition to a market policy in the dairy sector before the expiry of the milk quota system on 31 march 2015. does the commission have the dairy policy instruments in place to facilitate this transition? because it's clear that before making certain decisions, we need to assess their impact on this sector.
after the abolition of quotas in 2015, a major change will take place in the dairy sector. the new legislation aims to increase the bargaining power of milk producers to get the best price. in this regard, their involvement in producer organisations should be further encouraged. the dairy sector is the only sector in agriculture where producers can collectively negotiate their price. this ensures fair living conditions for farmers and a rational development of production. despite the fact that in romania there are not many large farms involved in milk processing, my country is in the middle of the ranking of the largest milk producers in the european union. they must be supported and protected in the post-quota period to ensure a stable future for the sector.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will try. i would like to thank members for their contributions to this debate. i have listened carefully and i assure you that i will pass your varied comments to my colleague, dacian cioloş, who by the way is not here because he is on official business in china. it is clear that the milk sector is a very important part of our agricultural policy. that is why the commission pays close attention to developments in this sector. concerning the quota, some of you want a ‘softer landing’. let me add a few words to what i have already said. i am aware that in 2008 parliament asked for a more flexible approach by ‘setting of quota’ at eu level. this was not adopted because it would have had an uncontrollable and unforeseeable impact on dairy production. instead, a 1 % annual quota increase over the period 2009-2013 was retained. some others want to keep the quota system beyond 2015. i want to make three remarks concerning this point. firstly, we have recently put in place the milk package, which is our first response to the concerns about the quota system being phased out. secondly, the phasing out of quota will end a rigid milk production system which has hampered farmers from gaining experience in adjusting supply to demand. thirdly, the commission will come up with a report by the end of 2012 with an assessment of the market situation and the conditions for phasing out the quota. as to the market situation, i would like to remind you that dairy product prices have been particularly high over the past two years. over the past months, the trend has changed. this coincides with the seasonal pattern of milk production and prices and is reinforced by milk production in the union and in the other main milk-producing regions. prices seem to have reached bottom and some are even trending higher already. in any case, safety-net mechanisms are available for operators who so far have only proposed butter for private storage. this is a good sign of confidence in a positive evolution of the market.
in writing. membership of a single market does not mean equal opportunities for eu agricultural producers. after 2015, milk quotas are to be abolished, but we have no idea what kind of instruments will be adopted to ensure the proper functioning of this market. we saw that dairy farmers are very vulnerable, and despite the fact that there were intervention tools, we had crises in the sector. i'm not convinced that small farmers in romania will have a chance to survive in a liberalised milk market. i therefore ask the european commission to reconsider the abolition of milk quotas in 2015 in order to guarantee stability and predictability in this sector.
i voted for this report because we need to reduce the likelihood of serious accidents. accidents such as the one with the red mud in hungary in 2010 must be prevented in order to limit the negative consequences for people and the environment. although the directive seems to be working well, its revision is necessary to improve implementation and reduce administrative burdens. the most important changes concern access to information and public participation in decision-making. a high level of protection is needed and the review of the directive should aim at achieving it. in this context, i would stress the importance of access to justice. public information is also essential, as it will lead to a climate of trust. as long as the public receives clear and accurate information, it will be able to take appropriate action in the event of major accidents.
i voted for this report, which i consider to be one of the most important votes on a report today. not only did the previous 1974 directives need to be changed and adapted, but the fact that this report is addressed to a category of vulnerable consumers is absolutely relevant. these consumers are often the victims of incorrect advertising and labelling and, as a result, a number of diseases develop which are much more difficult to combat. i welcome the provisions on gluten intolerance, because gluten intolerance has developed a disease which, unfortunately, is present in many european countries in a worrying proportion - it is celiac disease - and this report also addresses this disease, trying to take measures to combat that disease. i believe that this report should be followed by other measures to implement and monitor how they are implemented in practice.
i voted in favour of this report because i support the revision of the legislation on foodstuffs for particular nutritional uses. the rules aiming at updating, streamlining and clarifying eu rules on the labelling and content of dietary products are welcome. this will ensure a high level of protection for certain vulnerable groups of the population. at the same time, this sector should benefit from greater legal certainty. a simplified framework is needed to avoid increased administrative burden and to stimulate innovation. i also believe that similar products should be given equal treatment throughout the union in order to ensure a level playing field. consumers need to benefit from greater safety and clearer rules in order for the internal market to function properly.
i voted for this resolution because a large part of the public consultation is on very important subjects, but participation is generally low. they should be organised with the involvement of ngos, trade unions and the media and should be accessible to all. public participation is a fundamental element of democratic governance and should be encouraged. therefore, translation into all official languages is essential. sustained efforts are needed to achieve the active involvement of all european citizens. at the moment, the consultations are not well organized enough. i stress the importance of raising awareness of the benefits and rights of union citizenship. the commission must also take measures to reduce the information and communication gap between citizens and the union.
i voted in favour of this report, which i consider an important report on the future of the single market. they not only develop a vision, but they also offer solutions and they are among those who believe that the single market is the main cohesive element of our european project. this report is addressed to the european bureaucracy and i want to emphasise this, because the call to reduce european bureaucracy by 25% by 2015 is a key one. both the commission and the member states must make this reduction effective, in order to facilitate access for citizens - companies and individuals - to a much smoother and more coherent administration. i would also like to stress the component on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications. as regards article 59 of the directive, i consider that this recognition is a step towards facilitating access to the labour market in the european union and has a beneficial effect.
i voted in favour of this resolution because the single market is one of the greatest achievements of the union and its strengthening is essential. it faces many challenges and its growth potential is not yet fully exploited. the single market act helps to boost the economy and create new jobs. in this context, i believe that the single market should be supported more by the member states. we need to move towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, and concrete action is needed to do so. we need more mobility of skilled workers, which would make the european economy more competitive. that is why i stress the importance of removing the restrictions that are still imposed on romanian workers on the labour market.
i voted in favour of this resolution because company law contributes to the smooth functioning of the single market. it is essential to protect shareholder rights and to guarantee legal certainty. the union needs a legislative framework adapted to the current requirements of companies, which corresponds to the developments in the european economic environment. i believe that there is a need to harmonise the basic rules and adapt company law to the benefit of both shareholders and customers. i also draw attention to the very important role of business in growth and innovation. we should pay more attention to the rules on corporate governance as well as corporate social responsibility. the regulation of european company law should ensure simpler and more accessible use for all concerned.
i think that in the present context the analysis of this report on the commission's communication on the recovery of jobs is an important one. i would like to emphasize the realistic way in which the rapporteur has assessed the situation of the labour market in the european union and i would like to emphasize two things. the report says that there is no correlation between the products of universities and vocational training factors and the reality of the labour market. you can't find engineers, you can't find commercial workers, you can't find technicians. i think that we will have to try, at member state level, but also at european level, to orientate the vocational system, at least the continuing vocational training system, towards greater applicability in the labour market. i therefore welcome the decision to tax the workforce, which is currently excessive in many member states and does not make it attractive for public and private employers to employ this workforce. i think this report is an important one, it is an analysis report which will certainly have to be taken into account and considered by the member states in the future.
i voted in favour of this resolution because i agree that the economic recovery of the union depends on its ability to create jobs. there was a lot of discussion about the necessary measures, the commission made proposals, the council took decisions. it is time to put them into practice through concrete and effective action. the commission must present a clear picture of the €82 billion that was to be directed towards smes and job creation for young people. specific programmes are also needed at european level to support young entrepreneurs. i should also like to point out that i have also put a written question to the commission on this subject. i also support the creation of the youth guarantee and hope that it will be adopted by the end of this year. this will make it easier to transition from education to employment in a practical and effective way, and reduce unemployment among young people.
i voted in favour of this resolution for two reasons. unfortunately, in the 21st century, a barbaric phenomenon, which is justified in certain situations by religious choices, still persists. but this barbaric phenomenon, which is a phenomenon of maximum violence against women, affects 140 million women worldwide and over 500 000 women in europe. i think this has to stop, and i welcome the option of having a discussion in the united nations general assembly about this phenomenon. but it is worrying that this phenomenon has spread and continues to spread in europe; certainly, it is unacceptable that in countries with civilised human rights standards and equal opportunities standards it should be tolerated. it is a wake-up call to this european phenomenon and that is why this report deserves our full attention.
i voted in favour of this resolution because genital mutilation is a barbaric practice, unacceptable in the 21st century. the physical and psychological consequences for women are devastating, leading to very serious health problems and even death. despite laws against it, it continues in many parts of the world, threatening three million women annually. and some cases are occurring within the european union. at this very time, a couple in france are on trial for mutilating their four daughters. i ask the commission to give priority to the prevention of these practices as part of a global strategy to combat violence against women. i hope the un general assembly will adopt a resolution on this issue. i would stress the importance of information campaigns on risks and consequences.
in writing. − the current regulation provides for the adaptation of current fishing quotas to scientific data on maximum fish mortality rates and associated levels of spawning stock biomass, following a council decision. since this procedure is no longer possible, following the amendment of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, a legislative solution is necessary to allow the achievement of the objectives originally set out in the document. delegating this task to the european commission may be the appropriate solution to the institutional problem we are facing. i support the conclusions of the report and consider that, in order to ensure institutional legitimacy and transparency, it is important that the power delegated to the commission be limited both in terms of the objectives and the scope of the amendment of the quotas mentioned. i also support the maintenance of the central role of the stecf (scientific, technical and economic committee for fisheries) and the ccrsp (regional pelagic advisory council) in the scientific assessment of fishing mortality and spawning stock biomass levels.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i think it is very important to align the regulation with the new treaty framework. it would be the first fisheries legislation to be adapted in this way. in this context, i stress the importance of protecting the rights of parliament, which were introduced by the treaty of lisbon. i support the adaptation of fishing mortality rates and the associated levels of spawning stock biomass to scientific data by means of delegated acts. at the same time, the other amendments related to the multiannual plan for herring stocks should be made by the ordinary legislative procedure. i welcome the simplification of the evaluation procedure, as well as the continued applicability of the plan, irrespective of the migration of stocks. it is also of particular importance to create legal certainty, in particular with a view to aligning future multiannual plans.
in writing. − i do not think that the current geographical indication of the herring stock should be changed, as only part of it is relevant, not the whole area.
in writing. − i believe that the changes brought about by the revision of the seveso ii directive will ensure a higher level of access to information relevant to the public on the action to be taken in the event of an accident, improve public participation in decision-making and access to justice, so that citizens enjoy a higher level of protection. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i believe that major accidents occurring in the union have serious consequences, as has been shown by accidents such as seveso, bhopal, schweizerhalle, enschede, toulouse and buncefield, and that their impact may extend beyond national borders. for this reason, i believe it is necessary to ensure that, as far as possible, the existing high levels of protection are maintained and improved.
in writing. − the recent serious industrial accidents involving dangerous substances, which have had a profound impact on the environment and human lives, not to mention the fact that they have generated enormous costs, raise an alarm that measures to prevent such disasters are either not yet sufficiently regulated at european level or not sufficiently understood to require the utmost caution on the part of those involved. so a review of these prevention measures is more than encouraged and comes at an opportune time, when one of the main concerns at the level of the european union, but also at the international level, is directed towards environmental policies. it is very important, however, that in addition to regulating a rigorous classification of dangerous substances and the corresponding precautions, there should also be discussion of harsh repression measures for those entities which have caused damage. i think that a database of all the organizations that have been involved in major chemical accidents should even be generated and made publicly available.
in writing. − the report pays special attention to the diet of infants and young children, as well as those who require specialised diets to treat certain medical conditions. i support the rapporteur's proposal to include the following key elements in this proposal for a regulation: paying special attention to the diet of people with diabetes because of the alarming incidence of this disease, eliminating dietary foods because they have no nutritional benefits, facilitating access for smes to the market for special foods where there are a limited number of industrial players and, not least, guaranteeing the nutritional quality of products for infants and children under 3 years of age so that they are not contaminated with toxic substances. i believe it is essential that the rules on the definition, composition and labelling of food for infants, children under 3 years of age and those suffering from certain conditions, both imported and exported, are regularly monitored and strictly enforced in order to guarantee adequate protection and food security for vulnerable groups, namely children under 3 years of age and patients with special nutritional needs.
in writing. − food safety, especially for food intended for vulnerable groups such as infants, young children and people with special illnesses, is a key condition for its free movement and for the proper functioning of the internal market within the european union. i therefore believe that a european solidarity policy is needed at union level, with legislative measures to eliminate these differences between national legislation on foodstuffs for special nutritional uses, thus allowing their free movement and creating a level playing field for competition.
in writing. − the european union represents all its citizens and as such any citizen has the right to have access to all information relating to the union's work and the decision-making process concerning him or her in any official eu language. on the other hand, it is important that when public consultations are launched on public interest issues, all interested citizens can participate and that there is no discrimination on the basis of language.
in writing. − the proposal to designate 2013 as the 'european year of citizens' is a good one, as are all the efforts to encourage open communication with all union citizens and their active involvement in shaping community policies that affect and concern us all. unfortunately, the availability of the content of the public consultation in all the official eu languages comes at an inopportune time, when huge efforts are being made to reduce the costs of elements that are not necessarily vital to the proper functioning of the union. the translations by the eu institutions into all the official languages of all documents intended for the public, in this case, are an example of expenditure that can be reduced without dramatically affecting the smooth running of things. i believe that information should rather be disseminated by making the most of existing means to reach citizens who want to participate in the european decision-making process.
in writing. − the 12 key actions contained in the single market act have the potential to contribute to the deepening of the single market and thus to lead to the revitalisation of the european economy. i therefore believe that these 12 key actions should be adopted without delay and that they should form the basis for the next steps towards growth as recommended in the resolution. i voted in favor of this resolution.
in writing. - the single market is undoubtedly a key asset to our international competitiveness. its evolution and the continuous development of the regions are complementary and together lead to a strong europe, characterised by cohesion and competitiveness. in this connection, i would like to stress the particularly important role that regional policy plays in integrating the single market and i consider that an essential condition for a dynamic and strong single market is greater accessibility for all regions of the european union. i would like to highlight in particular the situation of the new member states, where the level of accessibility is still low. supporting and improving infrastructure investment will help to increase the competitiveness of the regions lagging behind, ensure the smooth functioning of the internal market and thus significantly improve the overall competitiveness of the european union as a whole.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the single market act: next steps towards growth. i voted for amendment no 2, which stresses that a balanced european system of economic governance should be based on complementary legislation on both budgetary discipline and growth and public investment. a growth regulation setting out rules and procedures for the monitoring and control of national public investment expenditure should complement the existing budgetary provisions applicable to the public deficit and debt. i voted for amendment no 7, which calls on the commission to adopt legislative measures to protect the economic interests of consumers and to give them access to compensatory actions in the retail financial services sector, to protect small investors and to allow private savings to be invested safely, for the benefit of consumers and the european economy as a whole. i voted for amendment no 8, which stresses the importance of combating tax evasion and tax avoidance at national and european level. we call on the commission and the member states to coordinate their fiscal policies appropriately in order to avoid distortions in the functioning of the internal market, to guarantee sound public finances and a level playing field for businesses and citizens.
in writing. − in a europe in continuous and rapid change, the growing tendency of european companies to carry out cross-border operations within the eu and the continuing process of integrating european markets must be encouraged and supported. it should be borne in mind that the union's objective is to enable eu companies to compete globally while ensuring that the interests of their creditors, shareholders, members and employees are adequately protected.
in writing. − the introduction of a single legislative instrument on companies in the eu countries encourages the expansion of business cooperation between them and provides a clearer framework for the creation of new companies. as regards the question of the operation of companies, i believe that we must now concentrate on the development of european accounting and auditing standards, which will simplify the procedures for the establishment and operation of companies, especially smes, uniformly applicable throughout the european union. it is well known that in some countries the procedure for setting up a company is time-consuming and expensive, while in other countries it can take only one day at a much lower cost. such discrepancies are unacceptable in the context of the desire for economic unity at the level of the european community. simplification of procedures would also reduce the costs incurred by smes in drawing up complex financial statements, which would thus be easier to understand and interpret by interested parties.
in writing. − in view of the alarming rate of unemployment in europe, i believe that the efforts of decision-makers must focus on creating good quality jobs for eu citizens and especially for young people who are currently having difficulty finding a job. i support the call on member states to remove restrictions on free access to the labour market for workers from romania and bulgaria, in order to put an end to the abuses that are taking place and the negative impact of these restrictions on undeclared and unregulated work. i believe that the suggestions in the resolution can lead to a job-creating economic recovery. i voted in favor of this resolution.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on a job-creating economic recovery. the commission's proposals of 19 april are moving in the right direction, moving away from the logic of austerity, but adding more concrete elements of political direction was necessary. to create quality jobs, the union needs a common investment plan, financed through common measures such as eurobonds or the financial transaction tax.
in writing. − the european union cannot achieve the objectives set by the europe 2020 strategy without supporting investment projects necessary for the creation of new jobs in a variety of areas, from vocational training and retraining for people interested in changing jobs to investments in the green economy, health, social services, information technology and new technologies. it is essential that all member states develop national employment plans as part of their 2012 national reform programmes and then implement them on the basis of a well-defined timetable, precisely in order to achieve the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that the european union needs a growth and recovery strategy that is much more focused on creating new jobs and encouraging mobility in the european labour market, in line with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. unemployment in the eu member states is currently very high, especially among young people, which is affecting the potential for economic growth. the european union and the member states must therefore focus their efforts on stimulating job creation and vocational retraining programmes. at the same time, it is important that the eu makes full use of the right to free movement of workers and encourages their mobility in order to increase the growth potential at european level. in this respect, it is essential that all restrictions on the european labour market for romanian and bulgarian citizens be removed as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission communication entitled 'towards a job-creating recovery'. the unemployment rate increased from 9,5% in 2010 to 10,2% in 2012, and the total number of jobs lost from 2008 to the present has reached six million. austerity measures aimed at fiscal consolidation applied by several member states have contributed to a significant increase in the unemployment rate, and the commission's estimates indicate a stagnation of eu gdp in 2012 and a recession in several member states. we believe that the development of entrepreneurship and business creation should be promoted as a means of creating more jobs and we call on the commission and the member states to invest more in these areas, in particular through public procurement and access to finance. we also ask the commission to support the member states in their fight against unemployment and, in particular, youth unemployment, using the unused resources of the structural funds. i believe it is important that member states make better use of eures, as eures plays a key role in the functioning of the internal market by advising workers and jobseekers on their rights in other member states.
in writing. − it is important that the european commission ensures that specific attention is paid to female genital mutilation as part of the programme to combat violence against women, and at the same time that member states take firm action to combat these illegal practices. in this context, i believe that it is necessary to finance information and education programmes to make women themselves aware that genital mutilation is not a traditional practice that gives ethnic and historical specificity to the populations to which they belong, but forms of violence against women. many women in these regions consider it an honor and a duty to submit unquestioningly to such practices, which are often performed by women who are skilled healers or midwives and who are valued and respected within the group. at the same time, it is important to fund and organise programmes for the education of girls and boys on equality from an early age, in order to avoid segregation of society on the basis of sex and gender discrimination which is manifested by these acts of violence against women, which are these genital mutilations.
in writing. − violence against women has reached dramatic and unimaginable levels in the last decade. there is no cultural or religious justification for such inhuman and irreparable abuses, committed with full knowledge of the facts, and the perpetrators must be identified and punished accordingly. i call on the united nations to address the issue of female genital mutilation appropriately at the 67th session of the un general assembly. i also call on the european forums, national authorities and civil society to respond to prevent the repercussions of these abuses by increasing information, awareness and education, by mobilising communities and, where it is too late, to ensure these women's access to health services, psychological counselling and, not least, justice. the consequences of these serious violations of fundamental rights are irreversible and the measures taken to combat them are often insufficient. so we have to find ways to prevent them.
in writing. − as fgm is a form of violence against women, alongside other serious forms of gender-based violence, i believe that an approach is needed from the commission to prioritise ending violence against women and girls by allocating adequate financial resources and actively supporting specific and innovative programmes, both in the european union and in third countries.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the ep's motion for a resolution on ending female genital mutilation, as it is a serious abuse affecting 140 million women and girls today. according to the world health organization, at least 500,000 women and girls in europe have been affected by female genital mutilation, and an estimated 180,000 girls are at risk. according to experts, these figures are underestimates and do not take into account second-generation migrants and undocumented migrants. any form of female genital mutilation is an act of violence against women and girls, constituting a violation of their fundamental rights, in particular the right to privacy and security of the person and the right to physical and mental health. calls on the member states to continue to ratify international instruments and implement them through comprehensive legislation prohibiting all forms of female genital mutilation and providing for effective sanctions against perpetrators of such practices. i call on the commission to give priority to ending violence against women and girls and, by allocating adequate financial resources, to actively support specific and innovative programmes both in the eu and in third countries.
in writing. − according to the findings of the french health authorities, a french manufacturer (poly implant prothèse) is under investigation for the fraudulent use of low-quality material (industrial silicone) different from the material indicated in the documents submitted for conformity assessment. a lack of both clinical and epidemiological data on the potential risks of pip breast implants was noticed. i voted in favour of: strengthening the controls on medical devices already on the market, including those using samples; improving supervision by national authorities of notified bodies and ensuring consistency across member states; and improving the functioning of the vigilance system for medical devices, for example by facilitating and actively encouraging patients, patients’ associations, patient groups and healthcare professionals to report all adverse events and harmful effects to the competent authorities and by setting up a centralised procedure for gathering and treating notifications on adverse effects and on the withdrawal of devices from the market. the medical devices directive needs to be revised, with the aim of introducing a capacity to detect and minimise the risk of fraud, and focusing on provisions on market surveillance, vigilance, and the functioning and tasks of notified bodies, so as to avoid a repetition of the pip case.
in writing. − i consider that a single european data base for the breast implants should be established to bring together information about medical devices on the market, the registration of economic operations, vigilance and market surveillance, clinical investigations, notified bodies (which check compliance with eu rules) and ec certificates issued.
in writing. − although the pip scandal was a clear case of fraudulent and criminal activity, it has highlighted a number of other practices with regards to the promotion and sale of implants which need to be addressed. there are serious concerns about advertising of breast implants for cosmetic surgery. advertising typically does not inform the consumer properly, and many women are not even aware that implants need replacing every ten years or so which means many operations over the course of a woman's lifetime. the s&d group was right to table an amendment calling for a ban on the advertising of breast implants for cosmetic purposes, and i regret that it was not adopted. in cases where the implants are needed following surgery, for example because of breast cancer, these adverts are not necessary. in all other cases, we should not be encouraging women to commit to a series of unnecessary operations over their lifetime for cosmetic purposes, with all the associated risk and cost.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on defective silicone gel breast implants produced by the french company pip (poly implant prothèse). tests carried out by the french authorities on the physical integrity of a sample of silicone pip breast implant revealed defects in the pip breast implant coating which were not detected in other implants available on the market. because of the lack of registration of breast implants at european level, the total number of women who have received implants is not known. based on data provided by the european commission, it is estimated that around 400 000 pip silicone breast implants have been sold worldwide. the highest number of pip silicone breast implants were sold in the united kingdom (40 000), france (30 000), spain (10 000), germany (7 500) and portugal (2 000). the case of pip implants demonstrated the non-compliance of the current certification system with the essential health and safety requirements, the existence of deficiencies in the controls of notified bodies and the lack of oversight of notified bodies by the competent national authorities in accordance with the medical devices directive (2007/47/ec). i recommend that the medical devices directive be revised to introduce fraud detection and risk reduction capability, in particular on the provisions on market surveillance, to avoid a repeat of the case.
the sahel has indeed become africa's new powder keg. armed rebellions, coups, hostage-taking, the influence of terrorist groups, the trafficking of arms and drugs, waves of refugees, separatist movements - all these are factors in the destabilization of sub-saharan africa. the conflict has exacerbated the food crisis caused by poor harvests in 2011, with 17-18 million people facing famine and mali at risk of becoming a no man's land twice the size of france. the complexity and gravity of the situation require coordinated action, from the creation of a regional framework for cooperation against terrorism and the discussion in the un security council of the problem of pacifying the sahel, to a more intensive european involvement, in order to stimulate and support coherent policies against desertification, underdevelopment and the permeability of borders. first of all, however, i believe that a massive and urgent international effort is needed to provide food aid to the population and to stop the atrocities.
mr president, as you all know, our resolution is not new. there is no urgency in the sense that nothing new has happened. we are trying, however, in our text to reaffirm the existence of several risks in this region of west africa and the sahel. as our socialist colleagues have said, there are 17 million people who are in a very precarious situation. what causes it? first there is the food crisis, then there are armed conflicts. then there is the fragility of states, which is not simply linked to the existence of armed conflicts but also, for example, to corruption. then there are the terrorist networks which, in this region - and the case of mali is telling - are very powerful. what is our answer? we have included it in our strategy for development and security in the sahel. then there is the idea of cooperating with ecowas and the african union to manage conflicts. and again i cite the urgency of the conflict in mali. (the president agreed to answer a question on the 'blue card' (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer is "blue cardboard". i am aware of the françafrique issue you have just mentioned, but i think the problem is more serious than your franco-french disputes over françafrique. i think that what i have just said is much more important for all of us europeans.
on behalf of the epp group. i also deplore the liquidation of witnesses to the maguindanao massacre, in which no less than 58 people were killed simply because they stood in opposition to the family that dominates the region. it is clear from our european perspective that the philippine state has an obligation to punish those responsible for this series of crimes, as well as an obligation to protect witnesses in trials, so that there is a fair trial. i recall, as did one of our colleagues, the deaths of 34 journalists during the 2009 massacre. many others have sadly been killed or harassed for just trying to cover this subject, and again, the philippine state has an obligation to protect journalists so they can do their work. last but not least, the philippine state must fight against the corruption that allows the ampatuan clan to act with impunity.
our debate was triggered by the third murder of witnesses in the 2009 maguindanao massacre trial, which claimed 58 victims, including women and journalists, for political reasons. the state of impunity in the philippines cannot continue indefinitely, especially as we see that the price of impunity is in new lives sacrificed. political assassinations and kidnappings remain common in the philippines, and the perpetrators are emboldened by the complicity of the corrupt judicial system. unfortunately, the protection afforded to criminals does not work for journalists who are subjected to brutal harassment and intimidation. it is deeply troubling that justice is being sacrificed in violent settlements between the private militias of the political and economic clans, which condemn philippine society to poverty, corruption and sham democracy. we call on the philippine authorities to take urgent action against these bloody methods designed to silence other witnesses in the maguindanao massacre trial.
in writing. – the elusive prosecutions for extrajudicial killings in the philippines are deeply troubling. the murder of the third witness to the maguindanao massacre was reported on 31 may 2012 and four journalists have been assassinated. this calls for the need for the philippine government to take further measures to end impunity through thorough investigations and vigorous prosecution of perpetrators, and strengthen accountability mechanisms. the universal periodic review on the philippines held on 29 may 2012 recommends that the philippines end impunity for extrajudicial killings, enforced disappearances as well as torture, and bring those responsible to justice. i call on the philippine government to provide adequate protection to journalists and human rights defenders and intensify the fight against extrajudicial killings. i also recall that this country has ratified the rome statue of the international criminal court and other human rights bodies and must fulfil its commitments.
i too believe that we must send a strong message to the iranian authorities that the death sentences handed down to members of the ahwaz arab minority, who are at risk of being publicly executed at any moment, must be immediately quashed. iran must respect the right of these people to a fair trial, to legal assistance and to inform their families of their fate. i also believe that there is an imperative call for an end to torture in detention centres and an objective investigation of the abuses so far. last but not least, we call on the iranian authorities to abandon the death penalty and discriminatory rules targeting ethnic and religious minorities and i believe that greater cooperation between the european union and the united nations is needed.
in support of mr weber's proposal, i would like to make a few points which will help to clarify the reasons why we are calling for this debate. the constitutional court ruled that the president of the country is the one who must represent romania at the european council and only if the president of the country empowers another person, that person can represent romania. this is exactly what the current prime minister has avoided doing: asking the president of the country for this authorization. secondly, the current government, when the constitutional court gives a decision that corresponds to the interests of this government, it agrees, congratulates the constitutional court, while when the decisions of the constitutional court are not favorable to it, it publicly criticizes them, which is practically an attack on the rule of law, carried out especially by the representatives of this government. (the president interrupted the speaker)
mr president, with all due respect i do not believe that mr weber and our colleagues in the epp group should let themselves be misled by their romanian contingent on this subject. this is an issue which is under debate in romania right now. it is an institutional conflict between the parliament and the president. we have just had elections. the president lost the elections; and now he discovers that there is a problem with the rule of law in romania just because another party won the elections. i do not believe we should let the european parliament be dragged into an internal political debate in romania. today the parliament in romania held a session in which it was due to nominate the components of public television and debate the composition of the constitutional court of romania. as we speak, all the topics raised by our colleagues in the epp group are under debate in the romanian parliament. i think we should settle down and await the debate there. if we consider something to be wrong, then we can raise the subject at a later date.
the reporter. i would like to begin by thanking colleagues from all the political groups for the good cooperation we have had in drafting this report. the tachograph plays a crucial role in checking compliance with the rules on driving time and rest periods by professional road transport drivers, contributing to improving road safety, working conditions for drivers and fair competition between road transport undertakings. the new proposal for a regulation sets out a number of technical measures, such as: improving the functions of the tachograph, wireless communications to reduce traffic controls, introducing a harmonised interface with other applications of intelligent transport systems, but also non-technical measures, such as: improving the credibility of workshops, increasing the protection of the driver's card against fraudulent manipulation, improving the training of control agents, a minimum level of harmonisation of penalties, modernising the rules of use. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities, including the provision of services, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the provision of services to the public authorities. we ask the commission to analyse existing technical solutions, compatibility issues and data protection issues before proposing the merging of the functionalities of these cards. the tran committee stresses that in the interests of a clear, efficient, proportionate and uniform process for the implementation of social security rules in road transport, it is essential that the member states' authorities apply the rules in a uniform manner. the manual setting of the driver's activity is essential for compliance with social legislation and the correct use of the tachograph. by amendment 21, the tran committee proposes to use the definition of daily working time for the purposes of this regulation provided by the court of justice of the european union in case c-394 of 1992. in order to improve road safety and social conditions for professional drivers, the tran committee proposes that by 2020 all vehicles not exempted from the application of this regulation should be equipped with a smart tachograph. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services by rail, road and inland waterway. in no case shall remote communication for control purposes lead to the automatic application of fines or penalties to the driver or the transport undertaking. as regards workshops, member states shall take measures to prevent conflicts of interest between installers or workshops and road transport undertakings. the tran committee requires that the audits of the unintended technique cover, per year, at least 20 per cent of the authorised workshops. also, in order to reduce red tape, the driver card is issued, upon request, by the competent authority within 15 days of receipt of the application. i would like to stress, commissioner, that this regulation is considered a unique opportunity to amend regulation 561 on social legislation, which is why we have many amendments tabled in this respect. i personally do not support them, because i do not think that the digital tachograph regulation is the right time to change regulation 561, but we also have some amendments on certain exceptions which can introduce some flexibility. i look forward to hearing from my colleagues.
social legislation in the field of road transport improves safety and working conditions for drivers and ensures fair competition between businesses. violation of social norms on minimum rest periods can lead to accumulated fatigue for drivers, thus affecting road safety. companies may also be tempted to break the law in order to gain significant competitive advantages. in these circumstances, the regulation needs to be revised to reduce the possibility of fraud. road transport needs to become safer and more efficient, and this can be achieved by increasing the reliability of recording equipment and reducing the administrative burden. the tachograph must provide reliable data to allow an effective control.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, thank you very much for your remarks on this important issue. the tachograph has proven to be a useful instrument to increase road safety, and it has really worked well. now we need to adapt the rules in line with new technology and obtained experience. harmonised enforcement is extremely important; but i think that there is increasing cooperation between member states. also we, the commission, try to follow and push these practices in the right direction to have more harmonised enforcement. this is in the hands of the member states, but this is an important issue on which i share the concerns expressed about harmonised enforcement. as regards costs: our impact assessment shows that there will be practically no additional costs, and it is hoped that there will be no additional burden for businesses. it is just a development of new technology which is in many cases more convenient and can be better used. i would also like to emphasise that this proposal already extends the exemption for the use of tachographs from 50 km to 100 km. that is quite an extension. it also reduces the costs and the administrative burden for the business as a whole. if we go further and extend this extension to 150 km it can pose some serious problems concerning the overall social acquis in road transport and also have other potentially important consequences. extensions have already increased from 50 km to 100 km. this increase was not emphasised today, but i think it is quite a reasonable proposal.
the reporter. − i would like to thank all the colleagues who spoke and the european commission for their cooperation. i want to thank the shadow rapporteurs once again and assure them that we will continue to work together in the next steps. i would like to make a few points: our objective is to increase road safety and we must say that at least 1% of european gdp is the cost of road accidents. i also introduced into the text of the regulation certain elements from the annexes which i considered important so that the commission would not have a blank check and make amendments by delegated acts only to the non-essential and very technical elements of the regulation. we have also strengthened data protection provisions and, for colleagues who feared big brother, i would like to mention that the tachograph will record the position at the beginning and end of the driver's working period and of each transport operation in particular, so not at any time. i also want to stress that i support the reduction to 2.8 tonnes of vehicles to which this regulation applies, and i also support the regulation being applied only to professional drivers. as regards sanctions, yes, it is extremely important that we can include in the category of very severe sanctions, very serious infringements, in the legislation of the member states of those provisions, those cases which are particularly serious in terms of the consequences for road safety. i do not support exceptions for the whole building sector, i agree with the concrete example given by our colleagues - but i think that the building sector should not generally benefit from too wide an exception. i'll conclude, mr. president, by saying that i support the introduction of the weight sensor, it's important. i also point out that the speed is recorded by the digital tachograph, but the speed will not be transmitted through the remote communication system, as it will be checked when the vehicle is stopped in traffic manually and the control will be done manually. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs once again and assure them of their cooperation in the next steps of the adoption of this legislative dossier. i thank all the colleagues who have spoken and i thank the commission once again.
intellectual property rights are one of the most important elements that foster innovation. any infringement of them, including plagiarism, constitutes intellectual theft and must be punished. the commission has also concluded that the ipr directive does not apply to the use of intellectual property rights in the context of the ipr directive. customs practices are aimed at preventing illegal actions. i also stress the need to strengthen the enforcement of intellectual property rights by revising the current regulation. it is time for new rules that take account of developments in the economy and practical problems related to the implementation of this regulation.
i want to join my colleagues in congratulating richard seeber on his report. i think he has captured very well the main issues that we have to take into account when we talk about a european water policy and i think the recommendations in this report should be included in the future plan for the protection of the european union's water resources. member states need to focus on the implementation of water legislation - there are still gaps in compliance rates with regard to collection and treatment systems. i think we need to emphasise the need to use structural funds for modern infrastructure, which ensures the highest quality standards and minimises water loss. i agree with the rapporteur that water issues must be integrated into all policy areas and i believe that we must focus on the efficient use of resources so as to avoid losses. i think an extremely important role is to inform and educate the public.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i think i should start with something which many of you mentioned: water as a public good, water as a human right. i would like to be clear on the commission’s position about this because we have just finished those discussions also in rio. there we have just agreed to reaffirm our commitments regarding the human right to safe drinking water and sanitation, to be progressively carried out for our populations with full respect for national sovereignty. the commission was one of the most active supporters of this and of the two other related millennium development goals on access to drinking water and sanitation, and this was reaffirmed in rio. so i would like it to be clear what the commission’s position is on this. however, it should not be confused with the question of whether water should be free for all. because if we go that way i can guarantee that we will not reach exactly the goal which we would all like to reach. so we have pricing of water as one of the tools in our water framework directive, and when we are implementing the water framework directive we are also looking at that, so i think it is important that this distinction is made. it is also important because we all understand that water today is one of the fundamental finite resources – and i stress ‘finite’. that is why we have also pushed so much for it to be included on the agenda in rio as one of the goals and targets which we would like to see in the rio document. so yes, we should fight for that globally and also at european union level, and the blueprint should absolutely be one of the important parts of that fight. if we continue with the use of water resources as we are currently doing, estimates are that we will have an approximate 40% shortage of water globally by 2030. so it is absolutely an issue which we need to address in a proper way. it is truly a complex issue. as you all know there is a quantity and quality side to the issue – quality, health, nature protection and so on – but in a way we should understand that these are two sides of the same coin. i think many of you also mentioned – and i agree – that implementation is truly the name of the game. much has been achieved already due to the strict legislation which we have – i may mention for example the bathing directive, which has enormously improved the quality of bathing waters in europe – also when it comes to the quality of inland waterways and other waters. i think there are many things which we can be proud of but there are also quite a lot of things where we have not yet achieved a lot, and as chris davies rightly said it is pretty much unlikely that by 2015 we will reach good water quality status across the whole of the european union. what i can say is that you have my promise that i will look to the implementation: horizontally, but also when it comes to the specific issues connected to water. now we also have data from river basin management plans which will improve our understanding and also our ability to act on certain aspects. the second aspect of this complex issue which many of you underlined was integration. integration is the true point of the prevention concept. if we disregard integration then we can forget prevention, because prevention is for me the important thing, not going too far and then trying to manage the damage, because the damage is already done. so integration – in agriculture, in industry, wherever you like – is the real name of the game if we want to start to deal with those issues. on water efficiency, many of you mentioned leakages and i again agree with you: on the innovation side for example we have just published an fp7 call on water with a budget of eur 40 million for the 2013 budget. we have just recently launched the innovation partnership on water efficiency which will focus precisely on all those issues and in particular on questions which are connected to the leakages – i will mention it later on as it is very much connected also to new investments and where these could be found. there were good points highlighting the possibility of financing in the future. in the new proposals that you will find on the table when you discuss the future mff you will for the first time find the possibility to finance green infrastructure – be it from the agricultural or the cohesion budget – which is something new and could be used also for good water protection. similarly i was also stressing that water infrastructure, which is really one of the difficult and relatively heavy investments – we have to be honest about that – remains one of the possibilities for the cohesion policy in the future. it should be there, otherwise some countries which have the lowest level of development in the european union simply have no serious chance to reach where we would all like them to be. concerning pollutants in water, we have two tools which we are using. one is reach, another is priority substances. we have proposed adding 50 new chemicals to the list of priority substances controlled by the water framework directive, including pharmaceuticals for the first time. of course this commission proposal will be discussed on the basis of the opinion which will be again produced by mr seeber, the rapporteur, in september in the committee on the environment, public health and food safety. these are the issues which are important for us and we will also focus on them in the future. so you have a kind of institutional framework which is regularly looked at, where we have regular updates of those substances. cross-compliance has been mentioned. cross-compliance is fundamentally an issue of prevention instead of cleaning up when the mess has been made. at this stage we have not yet fully implemented the wfd, so it would be difficult to have all the rules on the table. but we have clearly envisaged, when the proposal for the common agricultural policy is in place, that cross-compliance should be part of the proposal. of course i would agree with the honourable lady that simplification should be part of our logic and thinking when we design that proposal. i am absolutely in favour of that and you can count on that. on shale gas – and this is the last comment which i would like to make – we are now in the process of the review of the eia directive and this issue will be considered also in that context. shale gas exploration and exploitation beyond a certain threshold are already covered by annex i in the eia directive and therefore an eia is compulsory for smaller activities subject to screening. we do believe in the commission that the precautionary principle should apply and therefore the eia should be carried out also in those cases. we are also finalising some studies on shale gas, and on the basis of these we will decide whether guidance or additional measures are necessary in this context. i have tried to answer all or the majority of your concerns. i would just like to say that the report is a really good basis for future work. we will be taking it seriously when we shape the final stages of the blueprint and i would like to thank again everyone who was involved in that good work.
in writing. i believe that member states should pay more attention than in the past to prioritising investment in hydraulic infrastructure in the new eu financial strategy on cohesion funds. such investments allow for better management of natural water resources and the achievement of targets for increasing the share of clean energy in the electricity production of member states. in addition, integrated water resource management and land-use planning at the level of watersheds, closely linked to water-dependent economic activities and the water needs of all users, is beneficial. on the other hand, proper water management is important for the achievement of biodiversity and water-based ecosystem services, as well as for reforestation and wetland restoration.
in writing. i would like to point out, in relation to this report, what i consider to be a mistake. in the report, agriculture is mentioned in at least ten paragraphs as a major water user, but also as a possible part of the solution, through the more efficient use of resources. however, the committee on agriculture and rural development of this parliament has not had the opportunity to express its views in an opinion. european farmers are open to discussing problems in this area and putting into practice the solutions needed for better water management, but their views must be heard and taken into account. agriculture is indeed a major user of water, but it uses it to provide consumers with sufficient and quality food.
in writing. – it is clear that time is running out to achieve the objectives of the water framework directive, namely to protect and restore clean water, to ensure its sustainable use, and to achieve good ecological and chemical status by 2015. part of the solution lies in better water management and further improvements in water efficiency, especially in agriculture. drip irrigation techniques need to be more widely used, and support should be given to developing innovative irrigation techniques and improving recycling and treatment of waste water for use in agriculture. in the medium to long-term we can only expect pressure on water supplies to further increase, not least because of climate change and the additional demands placed on food producers by a growing world population. water use in agriculture will be a crucial factor in determining whether we meet our sustainability targets and ensure enough good quality water for everyone into the future.
the start of the debate in the european parliament on the transparency directive gives me the opportunity to make a few remarks on the pharmaceutical policy at european level and, in particular, in my country, romania. a smart drug policy is indispensable for innovation to translate into the launch of new products. therefore, the transparency of medicines pricing and reimbursement and compensation decisions can have a major influence on the way european citizens have access to medicines and, of course, to health. in romania, the current social-liberal government must correct some unfortunate decisions of governments between 2009 and april 2012. the list of countervailable medicines has not been updated for four years, and the criteria for deciding whether to include a new molecule are completely arbitrary. an equally unfortunate example is the claw-back tax adopted by the boc government in march 2011, which discourages pharmaceutical companies from introducing their products to the romanian market through an unsustainable taxation system. the new government will take the necessary decisions soon and the european commission must be more attentive.
i'm here to tell you that the european union is made up of 26 independent countries and one colony: my beloved country, romania. but this is not just any colony, this is an american colony where cia agents behave like plantation slave owners. these primitive feudal lords have three main concerns: to plunder the country's wealth, especially its gold, silver and uranium deposits, but also its natural gas reserves. 2. to sell the romanians, for tens of billions of dollars, bad contracts and military junk, such as 48 f16 planes, some made in 1965, real flying coffins; 3. to turn this peaceful country into a living missile shield against russia. and they have one other concern: stealing the election. the last cia-branded heist took place on june 10th, when local elections were rigged by american overlords with the help of an army of 900 officers and agents of romania's main secret service, namely the romanian intelligence service. yankees, go home! this is it!
i feel obliged to protest against the abuses committed in romania by the fundamental institutions of the state, especially those of the judiciary and the secret services, which, in contempt of the constitution and the laws, have been transformed by the president and the former right-wing government into instruments of control and coercion in society, which intervene partisan in the political struggle. these institutions abdicate their mission and purpose, now being used to prevent democratic alternation in government. the worst thing is that among these institutions is the constitutional court, which has practically blocked the exercise of government. we are witnessing political vendetta through selective justice, the harassment of doctors and police officers for doing their duty, serious violations of the fundamental norms of democracy and the rule of law in a member state of the european union. it is unfortunate that this whole campaign unleashed by the institutions subordinate to the president is supported by the european populace, ready, as they have done in other cases, to tolerate anti-democratic excesses.
the results of the june 10 local elections have marked a genuine change in romania, which meets the wishes of the majority of romanians. this change means both finding the truth about the serious democratic lapses of the past and building a new model of economic and social development. we welcome the vote today by the european parliament, which rejected the populist and demagogic temptation of the pdl representatives in the european parliament to put on the agenda a discussion on the state of democracy in romania. in romania, democracy is beginning to be consolidated by the new government, which is taking action with the legitimate vote of parliament and the support of the majority of romanians. we also welcome the desire of the romanian parliament to discuss the conclusions of the last european council in its extraordinary session of these days, which is a first in romanian democracy. the presentation by prime minister ponta of the conclusions of this summit to parliament is a welcome gesture of normality, in total opposition to the direction taken by the president so far. it confirms the good direction in which romanian democracy is heading.
these weeks we are taking important steps in the process of defining the reform of the common agricultural policy after 2013. the meeting i organised last week in bucharest with the representatives of romanian farmers, which mr paolo de castro was kind enough to attend, underlined their expectations of improvements to the commission's proposal. i share the view of my socialist colleagues that decisions on the future of european agriculture must take account of the need to reduce the gap between the strongest and the least developed farms. i believe we have an obligation to create a fairer system for allocating european funds between and within the member states. i welcome the report by mr capoulas santos, which calls for a fairer distribution of direct payments between member states and for the possibility for countries receiving direct payments below the eu average to be able to recover, at least partially, this disadvantage.
this report is mainly about protecting pets and companion animals, but i want to take this opportunity to draw attention to the black sea dolphins, because these animals are currently endangered over 300 have gone missing on the black sea coast in the last two months alone. they are victims of fishing methods, illegal fishing, but also pollution. we cannot remain indifferent to the drama of these intelligent, beautiful, and sensitive animals. that's why, with four other colleagues, i released written statement no. 23 on the protection of black sea dolphins. we call for additional measures to protect them, for example by using hearing aids, but also for closer cooperation with non-eu countries, including through the black sea synergy. i am therefore calling on all colleagues to sign written declaration no. 23 for the protection of the black sea dolphins.
modern consumers expect farm animals to have the same things that we as human beings view as necessities: good food, good living conditions, and proper medical care. animal health standards are of vital importance for the management of livestock in europe, and they are increasingly having an impact on the level of competitiveness of farms. i believe that all member states need to make effective use of the support opportunities offered by both the european union funds for rural development and the 7th framework programme 2007-2013 of the directorate-general for research to promote applied research and to invest in innovative and modern solutions for animal welfare. in this context, it is beneficial for member states and the european commission to make more financial investments in research and development of new techniques and technologies in the field of animal welfare.
in 2010, in the european union, some 31 000 people died and another 1.5 million people were injured in some 1.15 million road accidents. the fitting of ecall in motor vehicles means that the response time is reduced to save lives. when the consumer decides to opt for a private emergency call service or travels to a country where the service is not offered, the public ecall 112 service shall be automatically available. i stress the importance of european union companies being involved in the development of the applications, services and infrastructure required for ecall in order to stimulate innovation in the european union. i would recall that egnos and galileo can make a significant contribution to road traffic management and emergency response, and that an information campaign is needed to ensure that the opportunities offered by these systems are used widely in connection with the ecall application.
first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the approach she has taken in this report. in recent years, we have seen numerous protests by workers in different regions of the european union over the announcement of the relocation of companies outside europe, which automatically leads to increased unemployment in those regions. to prevent such events in the future, europe needs a strategy to attract new foreign and local investors, to encourage cross-border investment projects and to further develop trans-european networks, which will result in better mobility of workers, students and researchers. last but not least, there is a need to better promote public-private partnerships, support freelancers in view of the number and variety of new opportunities, and support smes in facilitating access to investment, especially long-term and sustainable investment.
first of all, i would like to congratulate my colleague, mrs kratsa, on her work on this report. although the global economy is moving in the right direction, there are major obstacles to the free market's stabilization and functioning. in these circumstances, the union needs to address its weaknesses more effectively and further exploit its competitive advantages. concrete measures and rapid reforms are needed to make investment more attractive, both at national and european level, and these measures must be centred around the single market, which offers a significant advantage to investors. in romania, the mining project at roșia montană could generate new jobs in an unemployment-stricken region. it could stimulate other industries and make a significant contribution to the national economy, but unfortunately, the lack of a decision and a pro- or anti-starter could turn away foreign investors.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i must admit that this topic is very close to my heart because in my former political life, when we regained independence in our country, this was a major element in our economic policy – to attract foreign direct investments. and we were quite successful in this. the commission welcomes the report on the attractiveness of investing in europe and thanks ms kratsa-tsagaropoulou for her work. in the current economic climate we need to create the necessary conditions to offer our companies and citizens the best possible business environment to produce and to compete in europe. it is true that the rise of emerging economies has intensified competition, but it has also created new opportunities for the eu through trade and investment in international value chains. foreign direct investment is an important part of this. the eu is the world’s leading host of foreign direct investment, attracting investments worth eur 225 billion from the rest of the world in 2011 alone. however, the eu’s share of the world’s inward foreign direct investment has declined substantially – from 45% in 2001 to 23% in 2010. a detailed breakdown by country reveals that the decline in foreign direct investment has been highly uneven across member states. this means that we cannot relax, but we should rather continue to improve our framework conditions in order to keep our good international position. it also suggests that we can learn from each other in europe as regards best practice if we wish to attract foreign investments. and basically we know what attracts foreign direct investment. the main reasons the eu is still an attractive location for foreign direct investment is our highly-educated workforce, low foreign direct investment regulations, declining regulatory burdens for starting and elaborating a business, extensive investor protection laws, high quality investment promotion agencies and various support measures often linked to regional policy measures. other important factors include a high level of productivity and technological infrastructure such as research and development and ict endowment. i am pleased to see that these issues are all addressed in parliament’s report. as a continuation along these lines, the commission is now preparing a communication on industrial policy. the long-term goals of our flagship product, europe 2020, remain fully valid. we have made very good progress in the deployment of industrial policy agreed in 2010. we will continue to push harder to establish the appropriate framework conditions to release the creative capacity of european industry. the main areas currently considered for further action are: access to finance, improvement of the single market, industrial innovation and globalisation challenges for eu industry and small- and medium-sized enterprises. the commission’s policy approach takes the same starting point as parliament’s report and we also identify the same areas where action is needed. as regards some of the concrete proposals in parliament’s report, i note in particular the call for a european observatory for foreign direct investment and the urge for improved international regulatory cooperation. these are areas where work is already being done. over the past years the european commission has developed several regulatory dialogues with our major trading partners and we have projects for the exchange of good practice among member states as concerns foreign direct investment promotion. i cannot go through all the details of this detailed parliament report here, but i welcome the broad approach of the report and the many areas for constructive cooperation ahead. we started today’s sitting with a discussion on the development of a single european railway area; this is one thing that shows that when we develop good infrastructure we attract investments. you have on various occasions discussed the single market act and will continue to discuss the next proposal. one of the most important aspects of this is to attract foreign direct investment. therefore, everything is in our hands.
in writing. to attract investors, member states and regions need to offer local specific advantages. i believe that, alongside the fiscal and legislative advantages, the eu's cohesion policy has been a real driver of change, making a major contribution to convergence and growth within the union. the existence of competitive infrastructure is also a basic condition for attracting investors in the context of the new challenges we are facing. in addition, the main prerequisites for the competitiveness and attractiveness of the regions are the promotion of research, innovation and technological development and the availability of appropriate high-quality vocational training programmes for people in the european regions. in order to strengthen knowledge and innovation as engines of future economic growth and economic competitiveness, i believe that it is necessary to: improve the quality of education, to apply research results in the economy and to promote innovation and knowledge transfer across the union.
i believe that there is a need to strengthen cooperation between the european union and the eastern partners in a number of sectors, in particular industry, smes, research, development and innovation, information and communication technology and tourism. welcomes the accession of ukraine and the republic of moldova to the energy community treaty, which will play an important role in achieving the union's energy security objectives and contribute to the security of these countries. call for strengthening of cooperation between the european union and ukraine in the energy sector in order to integrate the ukrainian energy sector with the energy sector of the european union and to initiate joint projects of modernization and development in the field of energy infrastructure. i call on the commission to continue developing the european union black sea strategy, given its importance in the european union's external energy strategy, due to its strategic role, which gives it significant potential for energy security and diversification of the routes and sources of energy supply to the european union.
the gradual liberalisation of trade with the eastern partnership countries must be the natural consequence of political cooperation. it can make an important contribution to economic recovery, to encouraging democratic reforms, but also to energy security. in this context, i again call on the commission to present the union's black sea strategy as soon as possible. i also stress the importance of connecting the eastern partnership countries to european infrastructure, especially in the energy field. i would mention that romania is very active in this area. he initiated the agri interconnector project for transporting natural gas from azerbaijan to europe via georgia and the black sea. it is also carrying out several projects with the republic of moldova, the ungheni-iaşi gas pipeline and the fălciu-goteşti and suceava-bălţi electricity lines, to link energy systems, strengthen or repair bridges over the prut river.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, honourable members, it is a pleasure to discuss with you the eu’s trade policy towards our eastern neighbours. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr ransdorf, for having taken the initiative of this report, as well as all the honourable members who have participated in the constructive discussions on the text. it covers not only trade in goods but also cooperation in other related fields, for example investment protection, streamlining customs and border procedures, reducing technical and other non-tariff barriers to trade, strengthening sanitary and phytosanitary rules and other measures. as you know, the last months have been particularly important for our trade relations with most of our eastern partners. the negotiations on a deep and comprehensive free trade area (in short a dcfta) with ukraine were completed in december and the two parties intend to proceed to the initialling of the dcfta text on 16 july, once the current legal review of the text is finalised. it is now up to ukraine to create the overall political conditions which will allow its signature and ratification. in any case, i want to stress that there cannot be provisional application of the association agreement, and for that matter of the dcfta provisions, before the decision concerning the signature of the association agreement and before parliament has given its view. the first part of this year has also seen important progress of our bilateral relations with moldova, georgia and armenia; three partners with whom dcfta negotiations have been launched. the negotiations advanced well, thanks to the thorough preparatory process carried out over the past years. it is now key that throughout the negotiations the pace of reform started during the preparation phase is maintained. indeed the negotiations of a dcfta are still only the beginning of a long process of reform. with belarus and azerbaijan, the commission is committed to pursuing a similar agenda as with the other eastern partners. however, the commission considers that wto membership and basic reforms in the trade and trade-related part of the economies of the partner countries are the prerequisite for an enhanced trade agenda. the decision to enter into trade negotiations should depend on the real capacity of the trade partner to effectively implement dcfta conditions. unfortunately azerbaijan and belarus do not currently comply with these conditions and do not currently dispose of such a capacity. let me however stress that our bilateral trade relations with the eastern partners cannot be separated from the broader political context in which they operate. this message applies across the board to all our neighbours. i wish to recall that this is also in line with the basic principles of the eastern partnership, according to which dcftas are an integral part of the broader association agreements and therefore cannot be envisaged in isolation. given the human rights situation, belarus only participates in the multilateral track of the eastern partnership. i believe that overall the report prepared by the rapporteur mr ransdorf reflects well the fact that parliament and the commission share the same views on trade relations with our eastern partners. i take the numerous amendments proposed, as well as the large support in favour of the report, as proof of parliament’s commitment to promoting stronger bilateral trade ties with our eastern neighbours. i welcome very much the role played by the euronest parliamentary assembly, which is very supportive in this respect. i can assure you that the commission fully agrees on the need to promote an ambitious trade agenda as a vector of reform for our eastern partners and shares the willingness to drive such an agenda forward. we all know that this will not be an easy task. therefore, it will be essential that parliament and the commission continue working in very close cooperation.
in writing. the 2011 revolutionary movements in north africa shifted the focus to the southern dimension of the neighbourhood policy, to the detriment of the eastern partnership. i believe that we need to revitalize the union's relations with its eastern partners, in particular through association agreements. they can be an effective tool to persuade participating states to adopt important reforms for the democratisation of their political regimes. at the same time, efforts to democratise are directly conditioned on improving the living conditions of citizens, creating a strong civil society, as well as ensuring freedom of the press and strengthening democratic institutions. in this respect, i welcome the creation in 2008 of a civil society institution under the umbrella of the eastern partnership, which fosters dialogue between governments participating in the programme and civil society. however, some non-compliance with respect to workers' rights persists in states such as georgia, where child labour exploitation is still a reality. ukraine is another example of a partner state with a deficient judicial system, which prevents the completion of the association agreement with it. that is why i am calling for our eastern partners to undertake internal reforms that will give them more credibility externally.
in writing. the relationship with the eu's eastern partners is of particular importance, both economically and socially. beyond the human rights and rule of law aspects, we must give due weight to the pragmatic dimension of these relations. by creating deep and comprehensive free trade areas, we can stimulate partner countries to continue the reforms they have started, so as to achieve a stable and predictable economic environment, in which the democratic principles on which the union is founded are respected. moreover, we can facilitate alignment with eu rules by gradually removing trade barriers as russia and china become more present in the region. in areas such as research, development and innovation, ict and tourism, cooperation between the eu and the eastern partners needs to be strengthened. the commission proposal on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, which envisages a 40% increase in the funding available for the neighbourhood policy, is therefore welcomed. i also hope that the eu black sea strategy will be developed, given its importance in the eu's external energy strategy, with concrete perspectives for strengthening energy security and diversifying supply.
i stress the importance of macro-regional strategies and that they must be based on multi-level governance, ensuring the involvement of local and regional authorities, as well as representatives of civil society, universities and research centres, both in the process of developing and implementing macro-regional strategies. in order to ensure the proper implementation of macro-regional strategies, we ask that the operational programmes of the member states also focus on the priorities of these strategies. we call on the commission and the council to give their full support to the approach taken for the danube basin, which should be subject to regular assessment and monitoring. in order to facilitate the implementation of the european union strategy for the danube region, parliament has since 2010 requested the allocation of eur 1,5 million for the preparatory action aimed at creating the governance model for the implementation of the european union strategy for the danube region.
macro-regional strategies are beneficial as they offer new perspectives for territorial cooperation projects. they can also ensure better coordination between regional programmes and the europe 2020 objectives. in this context, i would like to underline the particularly important role played by the baltic sea strategy. it has provided a framework for cohesion policy. i would also like to draw attention to the opportunities in southern europe. they should be exploited through enhanced cooperation in the region. the development of a macro-regional strategy in the mediterranean would be a step forward. this area has a similar culture and history, as well as significant potential. the area offers optimal conditions for development, both in terms of maritime traffic and renewable energy.
unfortunately, the danish presidency was overshadowed by an unprecedented institutional crisis which led to the exclusion of the european parliament from the configuration of the new schengen evaluation mechanism. as this is a transnational system with a direct impact on european citizens, it would have been preferable in the post-lisbon era that the european parliament was not deliberately kept at a distance from such important decisions. denmark has traditionally been transparent in its decision-making, but this episode makes our record as a european parliament not a positive one. i therefore hope that the cypriot presidency will bring this project to a more successful conclusion and take account of the democratic process involving the european parliament in the decision-making process.
the european council's decision on the compact for growth and jobs is a very positive development. success, however, depends on putting it into practice. there should be no concessions in the process of implementing the member state-specific recommendations. member states must urgently implement single market legislation. the procedures for approving the relocation of the structural funds must be expedited as much as possible in order to achieve a rapid result. on the other hand, the idea of a two-speed europe must not be supported in any way. all member states must apply, in one way or another, the measures relating to economic and monetary union. unfortunately, the european council's conclusions on the mff are not satisfactory. the danish presidency has not made the expected progress on a subject of great importance for the future of the union. there is not even a forecast of the size of the european budget. the negotiating boxes do not contain what the european council should have proposed, but references to very important elements of horizontal policies which fall under the codecision procedure. such an approach, which can only lead to a negative decision by the european parliament on the 2014-2020 mff, cannot be accepted. i expect the cypriot presidency to change this approach and to start talks with the european parliament as a matter of urgency. parliament has already expressed a very clear position in the sure report, which the council must take into account. if we look at the conclusions, there's a very large discrepancy between the conclusions on growth and jobs and the conclusions on the mff. 95% of the european budget is directed towards investment, which generates exactly what we want: growth and jobs.
in writing. the heads of state or government have agreed on a pact for growth and jobs, which sets out the actions to be taken by the member states and the european union to boost growth, investment and employment and to increase europe's competitiveness. country-specific recommendations have been approved to guide member states' policies and budgets. particular attention should be paid to investments in areas that are future-oriented and to ensuring the sustainability of pension systems. a clear priority is to boost employment, both among women and men, and especially among young people and the long-term unemployed. it is important to promote the reactivation of older workers. the council will examine and decide on the proposals contained in the 'employment package', with a focus on quality job creation, structural labour market reform and investment in human capital. it is essential to address youth unemployment, in particular through the commission's initiatives on youth guarantees and the quality framework for traineeships.
in writing. the european council's analysis of the results should start with the record unemployment rate in the european union - 25 million unemployed, 2 million more than last year. the unemployment rate has exceeded the 11% threshold for the first time since the creation of the eurozone. we can only talk about successes in the anti-crisis strategy when the unemployment figures indicate a significant decrease in those who are looking for a job. to judge things only by the highly variable moods of the "pisces" would be to deceive ourselves. i am encouraged by the agreement on the €120 billion package of measures to boost growth and job creation across the union. it remains to be seen how this money will be allocated and what kind of activities will be financed so as to produce the maximum economic and social impact. confidence in the ability of politics to solve the problems of its citizens is lower than ever. the rise of radical and extremist political movements is a reality and i don't think we have an encouraging prospect ahead of us. let's be careful that when the banks win, they don't lose democracy.
in writing. we are at a crucial moment in time when efforts are focused on the eu's swift exit from the crisis, but also on shaping the future in the eu. these two processes go hand in hand. we cannot be the architects of the future of europe while we are in the grip of the crisis, and we cannot get out of it unless we clearly define the way forward. the importance of the decisions taken at the last european summit will only be truly assessed later this year after the european decision-makers' meetings in october and december. in october we will have the interim report on the implementation of the measures agreed last week, and in december the heads of state and government, on the basis of the final report, will adopt the concrete timetable with fixed deadlines for stabilizing emu. i think the most unproductive thing is to look at the winners or losers of last week's summit, to analyze a hypothetical franco-hispanic-italian victory over the many-faced german rigidity. i believe that european solidarity must go hand in hand with the responsibility of all eu members, and the way to reduce the democratic deficit is to apply the community method to the detriment of the eternal intergovernmental rivalry, the ep being the institution that must take the lead in this process.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission would like to thank the rapporteur and her colleagues for all the good work and enormous efforts which were necessary to reach this compromise. i would like to congratulate ms serracchiani for having brought this compromise to a successful conclusion. i am sure that this directive will improve the functioning of the rail transport market and will significantly contribute to making rail transport more competitive and more attractive for passengers and freight users. the commission will continue to work on the reform of the rail sector and, to do so, will submit to this parliament a new package of proposals in the coming months.
rapporteur. − mr president, i should like to say that amendment 124 and amendment 133 should be voted as an addition so they are not incompatible with amendment 94.
rapporteur. − mr president, in the voting list there is a mistake. we asked for a split vote on amendment 95, because there was a discussion between the shadows. the first part should be rejected. the first part is from ‘for control purposes’ to ‘rest or break’. and the second part is the rest of the text. for the first part we are voting against, and for the second part we are voting in favour.
mr president, i have two oral amendments. the first one: i would like to ask you – and i would like colleagues to agree with me – to replace ‘an adequate trade agreement (i.e. in the form of a dcfta)’ with ‘other strategies […] with the countries concerned’; because i believe that a self-standing dcfta with our eastern neighbourhood is not a good solution. that is why we should have a full association agreement. the second one: because georgia has serious issues relating to the implementation of the labour organisation conventions on the freedom of association and, more importantly, on the elimination of child labour, i would like to add the words ‘including with regard to the implementation of international labour rights conventions, in particular those concerning the elimination of forced child labour’.
i voted in favour of the report on the evolution of the union's macro-regional strategies, because it aims to open up a new area for cohesion policy in europe with a very clear objective: territorial development. we know that macro-regional strategies must be based on multi-level governance, which thus involves the local and regional level from the pre-legislative stage. both the european commission and the council are expected to continue to support the work being done on the danube basin, which needs to be regularly assessed and adequately funded. last but not least, i support the idea that both the commission and the member states should consider a process of reflection and consultation on future macro-regional strategies to ensure that they will really generate significant added value in europe.
i support this resolution. the implementation of a well-thought-out macro-regional strategy offers several benefits, including coordinated investments, increased involvement of union intervention mechanisms. the development of macro-regional strategies must be based on consultations, which define the issues on the ground. i support the definition of a roadmap for european macro-regions and believe that funding should come from the territorial cooperation component of cohesion policy. of course, we must also make sure that money is not lost through fraud and corruption. i would like the successful strategies that have been used in the baltic macro-region and are now being developed for the mediterranean to be implemented in the danube macro-region, which includes my country, romania.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the commission's proposal for a modern, risk-based system for the regulation and supervision of european insurance and reinsurance undertakings is welcome. i also believe that in the current context these new rules and regulations are needed to guarantee greater security for the insurance sector. the whole economy will thus benefit, as long-term investment will ensure greater stability in the sector. at the same time, i would like to stress that the commission's proposal is an appropriate one, as the amendment must also take account of the new architecture of insurance supervision. i would draw attention to the need for coordinated action at the level of the union institutions in order to implement the new regulation effectively and without delay.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of directive 2009/138/ec on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) as regards its date of transposition and date of application and the date of repeal of certain directives. directive 2009/138/ec (solvency ii) provides for a modern, risk-based system for the regulation and supervision of european insurance and reinsurance undertakings. the deadline for transposition of this directive is 31 october 2012 while the existing insurance and reinsurance directives, which are known as the solvency i package, will be repealed as of 1 november 2012. the deadline for transposition of directive 2009/138/ec is amended from 31 october 2012 to 30 june 2013 and the date of repeal of solvency package i from 1 november 2012 to 1 january 2014 as proposed and approved. those changes were necessary to take account of the new insurance supervisory architecture, namely the creation of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa), in order to make solvency ii fully operational, to ensure a smooth transition to the new system and to prevent a legislative vacuum from arising after 31 october 2012.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because it ensures the implementation of the council decision of 29 october 2010 whereby, following a request from france, the french collectivity of saint-barthélemy changed its status from an outermost region to an overseas country and territory associated with the european union with effect from 1 january 2012. i consider that this change of status will be beneficial for saint-barthélemy, taking into account its specificity, characteristics and needs. at the same time, its link with the european union is maintained, including the fact that the euro will continue to be used and its inhabitants will retain their status as european citizens. this decision is without prejudice to the interests of the european union and places relations with saint-barthélemy within a new framework of partnership and cooperation. at the same time, the new statute will allow the collectivity of saint-barthélemy to develop its relations with other regional actors. the amendment of annex ia to council decision 2001/822/ec by inserting a new indent, with a view to including saint-barthélemy in the list of overseas countries and territories, is the natural consequence of the change of status of the french collectivity of saint-barthélemy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european community. saint-barthélemy thus becomes the 26th overseas country and territory associated with the european union. by approving the status of overseas country and territory, saint-barthélemy is entering into a new and lasting reciprocal partnership with the european union, which is in keeping with its specific characteristics, without thereby compromising its membership of the european family. indeed, saint-barthélemy retains the euro as its currency and its citizens continue to be european citizens. it maintains its links with the european union. this change in status will enable the collectivity of saint-barthélemy to strengthen its links with regional actors, in particular the overseas countries and territories, the acp countries and the outermost regions of the caribbean, thus contributing to a better dissemination of the european model and values.
in writing. − i agree with this amendment because i consider that it corresponds to the needs and specificity of the territory of saint-barthélemy and does not endanger the interests of the union.
in writing. − macro-regional strategies play an important role in the eu as they open up new perspectives for territorial cooperation projects funded through cohesion policy. in order to avoid projects that do not make a significant contribution to the development of the macro-regions, i believe that the development of strategies must be based on broad consultations, which define, as clearly as possible, the problems identified on the ground. an important stage is the pre-design phase, when the main strategic axes will be identified and the basis for the future governance will be defined. if we do not give this step greater importance, there is a chance that future projects will not solve the problems identified and their implementation will be difficult. in addition to the baltic sea macro-region, another macro-region whose strategy will help improve the living and working conditions of millions of european citizens is the danube macro-region. this strategy will create a platform for genuine dialogue between the 14 riparian states.
in writing. - i voted in favour because, outside the eu, the people living in the mediterranean region have extremely low living standards in all respects: economically, socially, ecologically and politically. for these societies, their development is a key requirement, and for europe it is an opportunity, because it could translate into greater security, more 'sustainable' control of immigration flows and direct participation in this area of growth. all of this would have a positive impact on the performance of its own economy. the events of last spring on the southern shore of the mediterranean thus provide a powerful stimulus for the development of new active neighbourhood policies. by incorporating them, at least in part, into a macro-regional strategy, they could acquire a concrete territorial dimension, guaranteeing increased effectiveness. the member states and eu regions in the mediterranean area must engage in enhanced cooperation, which must be open to all partners in this area, which is essential for the future of europe. the macro-regional strategy is the best way to achieve this.
in writing. − the importance of the strategies already developed, such as the baltic sea and the danube, was that they provided both an integrated framework for addressing the challenges and opportunities in this region and pilot projects for future macro-regional strategies. given their success, i believe that the european union can use these models in the development of future strategies. in addition to the mediterranean region mentioned in this report, i would also like to give the example of the black sea region, which is of recognised strategic importance, given its very rich natural resources and a potential market of over 350 million consumers. unfortunately, cooperation in the black sea has a rather modest place in the current plans of the european union, but i believe that the eu should play a significant role in this region by creating a european black sea strategy. a possible strategy will bring significant benefits not only to the black sea basin states but also to the union as a whole, thus creating a real bridge between europe and asia.
in writing. − macro-regional strategies are new bridges of territorial cooperation supported by eu cohesion policy. although there is currently no standard for defining macro-regions, they include territories in several countries or administrative regions that share one or more common characteristics. the macro-regional strategies started three years ago with the baltic macro-region strategy, which set the objective of concentrating cooperation between the regions of the states around the baltic sea in the areas of environment, prosperity, accessibility and security. the danube macro-region strategy was followed, covering the regions of the danube basin with a population of over 100 million inhabitants, covering one fifth of the union's area. initially, the commission was reluctant to support these initiatives on the grounds that they would burden the administrative architecture, increase costs and be ineffective. however, i believe that macro-regions represent european added value and can contribute to the implementation of trans-european energy and transport projects. i supported this report because territorial cooperation at macro-regional level can bring benefits to initiatives of territorial cooperation groups (tegs) by ensuring the involvement of local and regional authorities, together with representatives of civil society, in decision-making with a view to the effective use of their common potential.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the evolution of eu macro-regional strategies: current practice and prospects, especially in the mediterranean region, because i believe that macro-regions are a favourable framework for creating synergies between existing initiatives and optimising the use of resources. the european parliament's own-initiative report refers to the status of current macro-regional strategies such as the eu strategy for the baltic sea and the danube region, identifies priority areas for future macro-regional strategies and makes recommendations for an eu macro-regional strategy for the mediterranean. we stress that the major areas of intervention for a mediterranean macro-region should target the appropriate sub-regional levels for cooperation under specific projects. major areas of intervention should include energy networks, scientific cooperation and innovation, cultural networks, education and training, tourism, trade, environmental protection, sustainable shipping, maritime safety and security and protection of the marine environment against pollution, overfishing and illegal fishing, strengthening good governance and effective public administration to promote job creation. i believe that a macro-regional strategy in the mediterranean should coordinate existing european funding, in particular from neighbourhood policy, cohesion policy and territorial cooperation policy, to implement projects that respond to common challenges.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the regulatory framework for the rail sector in europe needs to be amended to make it simpler and clearer. this will increase competitiveness, improve investment conditions and strengthen market surveillance. i would stress that greater transparency of market access conditions will lead to fair competition for railway undertakings. cooperation between national regulatory authorities will also help to remove remaining barriers to access to rail services and thus ensure a better functioning market where passengers and goods can cross borders with ease. we must continue to look at the development of the sector in order to establish the single european railway area. rail transport retains its potential for development, but i believe that the rules should be strengthened and harmonised to make it even more attractive.
in writing. − a single european railway area should remain our objective, as the more than 20 national signalling and speed control systems, which are not mutually compatible, severely limit the development of the sector and the competitiveness of rail transport in relation to other modes of transport. in order to create this unique space, i think two elements are essential, and i am referring to the regulatory body and, respectively, to the essential functions of the infrastructure manager. in the long term, i believe that a european regulatory body should be set up to oversee cross-border transport. the basis for such a body should be a network of national regulatory bodies, which should become trusted entities capable of taking swift and effective decisions. as regards the infrastructure manager, network development should be one of its core tasks, as it is better aware of the needs of the whole sector.
in writing. − i supported the adoption of the new single european railway area directive because technical incompatibilities between states are a major obstacle to the fast-growing rail freight market, where cross-border traffic has the greatest potential. they also represent obstacles to the development of a wider european transport network. increased interoperability will mean that trains must be able to run on the entire trans-european network and will contribute significantly to lower operating costs. i strongly support the vision of this directive for a european transport research and innovation policy based on joint efforts towards a competitive and resource-efficient transport system.
in writing. − in a europe where citizens travel more and more often, both for personal reasons - on holiday or to visit family or friends - and for professional reasons, the provision of rail transport services through european infrastructure should enable railway undertakings to provide better services to all users, whether they are freight or passengers. as such, non-discriminatory access to the infrastructure of the sector for all partners is essential, as is a tariff regime that is as homogeneous as possible. i believe that the european executive should carry out a study on the methodology for calculating the tariffs applied in the member states, with a view to establishing a uniform method of calculation, in order to determine a tariff system accessible at european level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the establishment of the single european railway area. given the international dimension of european rail transport, it is important to establish at union level general principles for the licensing of railway undertakings and the coordination of member states' systems governing the allocation of railway infrastructure capacity and the charging of infrastructure charges. the new directive requires member states to adopt and publish an indicative strategy covering a period of at least five years, renewable, on the development of railway infrastructure to meet mobility needs, on the maintenance, renewal and development of infrastructure, based on sustainable financing of the railway system. transparent rules on access to related rail services and service infrastructure (freight terminals, maintenance infrastructure, train training stations, etc.) are crucial for the competitiveness of the sector. in order to ensure the development and efficient operation of the rail system, the activity of providing transport services and the operation of infrastructure will be managed separately and must have separate accounts. member states may also provide that such separation requires the organisation of separate departments within the same undertaking or that infrastructure and transport services are managed by separate entities.
in writing. − the tachograph plays a crucial role in checking compliance with the rules on driving time and rest periods by professional road transport drivers, helping to improve road safety, drivers' working conditions and fair competition between road transport undertakings. making the use of tachographs cost-effective is one of the key elements of the commission's strategy to better integrate the road freight market and to make road transport safer, more efficient and more competitive, as outlined in the white paper on transport of 28 march 2011. in view of the current situation regarding road safety in the field of freight transport, the tachograph must be able to provide reliable and credible data, allowing effective control of driving time and rest periods of drivers. the security of the tachograph system is essential to prevent fraud and illegal manipulation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (eec) no 3821/85 on recording equipment in road transport and amending regulation (ec) no 561/2006 of the european parliament and of the council. the measures will significantly extend the functions of the digital tachograph, leading to a new type of digital tachograph (smart tachograph) that will facilitate distance communication based on the tachograph for control purposes, automatically recording the exact location and integrating the digital tachograph into other applications of intelligent transport systems.
in writing. − i welcome the establishment of a website and a free eu-wide telephone helpline which can be contacted free of charge and anonymously by all drivers or other interested parties wishing to report fraud falling within the scope of this regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (eec) no 3821/85 on recording equipment in road transport, because it contains fundamental provisions concerning the transport sector in the eu, which will significantly improve the safety of our roads and will provide stronger protection against fraud in the area of transport legislation. i truly believe that more efficient and innovative tools have to be put in place for guaranteeing the highest standards of social rules, such as drivers’ working conditions, minimum number of breaks and maximum driving times; this is very much a matter of public safety, and the report efficiently addresses this problem. i welcome the fact that the report underlines the importance of improving the use of advanced digital tachographs, which will not only reduce administrative burdens, but will also greatly enhance the possibility of monitoring compliance with rules in the european transport sector.
in writing. − the tachograph plays a crucial role in checking compliance with the rules on driving time and rest periods by professional road transport drivers, helping to improve road safety, drivers' working conditions and fair competition between road transport undertakings. all vehicles put into service for the first time 24 months after the entry into force of the technical specifications shall be equipped with a smart tachograph capable of communicating data to those authorities while the vehicle is in motion. i voted in favour of regulation 561/2006 applying to all vehicles, including towed and semi-towed vehicles, intended for the carriage of goods by road with a maximum authorised mass exceeding 2,8 tonnes (which are not subject to any exceptions which may be granted by the member states). i believe that these improvements to the regulation will help to increase road safety and to ensure better working conditions for professional drivers. i believe that the regulation on the social conditions for professional drivers should contain as few exceptions as possible. that is why i did not support amendment no 129 which extended certain exceptions to a radius of 150 km from the premises of the undertaking, nor amendment no 120 which introduces an exception for the construction sector.
in writing. − the eu's economic prosperity is based on a process underpinned by creativity, cultural diversity and innovation, the driving forces of an evolving knowledge society. protection of intellectual property rights (ipr) is therefore beneficial, both for the business environment, for innovators and consumers, and for those involved in cultural creations. customs authorities have an important role to play in ensuring effective compliance with idps at the external borders of the union because, once goods move across the territory of the member states, it is much more difficult and costly for them to be located and the necessary procedures initiated.
in writing. − given that the phenomenon of the marketing of goods infringing intellectual property rights causes significant harm to right holders, law-abiding producers and traders, i voted in favour of adopting this regulation. counterfeit products are also misleading to consumers and can endanger their health and safety. the entry into the customs territory and the placing on the market of such goods should therefore be prevented as far as possible. i consider that customs authorities should be able to control goods that are or should have been subject to customs supervision in the customs territory of the union, including goods under a suspensive procedure, in order to ensure the enforcement of intellectual property rights. last but not least, i believe that member states should allocate sufficient resources to enable customs authorities to fulfil their extended responsibilities and provide customs officials with adequate professional training. the commission and the member states should adopt guidelines to ensure the correct and uniform application of customs controls for the different types of infringements of the rights covered by this regulation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council concerning customs enforcement of intellectual property rights, because it is a fundamental step for the implementation of the eu strategy on ipr. beyond a doubt, the construction of a knowledge-based economy is of paramount importance for the european union’s growth and innovation strategy. an adequate and fair level of ipr enforcement constitutes the prerequisite and the necessary environment for its realisation. i welcome in particular the adequate stress on the need for ipr infringements to be exclusively based on the eu substantive ip legislation or the national laws of the eu member states. this constitutes, in my view, a balanced approach to ipr enforcement legislation, one of the most criticized aspects of the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, as demonstrated by the positions of all the parliament’s committees which have been called for their opinion on that international agreement. the eu possesses all the instruments to elaborate valuable tools for the protection of iprs, whilst keeping in mind the crucial importance of a coordinated approach, at the global level, on this field.
in writing. − in the context of the increasing volume of counterfeit and pirated goods transiting through the eu, a unified regulation on the enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs authorities is absolutely necessary, all the more so as these goods can also affect the health of final consumers. given that decisions to suspend the release of goods or to detain goods liable to infringe an intellectual property right must be taken by specialised staff, references to the continuous training of customs workers in relation to pirated or counterfeit goods, which must be easily identified, have been omitted. i therefore propose that the member states should focus on the continuous specialisation of customs workers, so that they are as efficient as possible in correctly and quickly detecting goods in transit suspected of being imitations or copies of products protected in the eu.
in writing. − the proposal for a regulation on the enforcement of intellectual property rights by customs authorities concerns the commercial aspects of intellectual property rights, insofar as it envisages measures to enable customs authorities to enforce intellectual property rights at the border for goods in international trade. this regulation will replace regulation (ec) no 1383/2003. article 3 (1) provides for the exclusive competence of the european union in the field of the common commercial policy. i voted for amendment no 5, which says that member states should allocate sufficient resources to enable customs authorities to fulfil their extended responsibilities and provide customs officials with adequate training. the commission and the member states should adopt guidelines to ensure the correct and uniform application of customs controls for the different types of infringements of the rights covered by this regulation. i voted for amendment no 6 which states that, once its implementation is completed, this regulation must contribute more to the creation of a single market that ensures more effective protection of rights holders, stimulates creativity and innovation and offers consumers reliable and high quality products, all of which contribute to strengthening cross-border transactions between consumers, businesses and traders.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because water is essential for life and its efficient management is of particular importance for our health, our economy and the society in which we live. improving access to water is fundamental to improving the quality of life of the population. that is why i believe that resources must be protected as much as possible from the risks to which they are exposed, such as population growth, urbanization, pollution, overconsumption or climate change. at the same time, i would like to draw attention to the need for concrete action and a comprehensive approach to overcome the current challenges and achieve a more effective policy in this area. i therefore believe that the issue of water should be given greater consideration and should be integrated into all policy areas. water efficiency plays a key role in the europe 2020 strategy. in this context, reducing consumption should be a priority for all union citizens.
in writing. − the decline in freshwater resources and the expansion of deserts, which in the past were a problem mainly in africa and asia, are now also occurring in europe. in southern spain, the desert is expanding by one kilometre a year, romanian oltenia is exposed to a slower but similar process, and in other regions of the world drinking water resources have become a cause of interstate conflict. the protection of water resources, in particular drinking water, must be approached from a global perspective, taking into account all the ecosystem services provided by water. it is important that pollution be controlled at source to prevent the release of hazardous substances into the environment and to reduce the pressure on wastewater treatment. in view of the above, i believe that sustainable water use is not only an environmental but also an economic necessity and that greater transparency in water pricing systems would be necessary.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and i consider that both the problems highlighted and the solutions proposed are consistent. but i cannot help but notice a paradox: in the text of the report, agriculture is mentioned in at least ten paragraphs, as a major water user, but also as a possible part of the solution, through the more efficient use of resources. however, the committee on agriculture and rural development of this parliament has not had the opportunity to express its views by way of an opinion. european farmers are open to discussing problems in this area and putting into practice the solutions needed for better water management, but their views must be heard and taken into account. agriculture is indeed a major user of water, but it uses it to provide consumers with sufficient and quality food.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the implementation of eu water legislation. i believe that water is a public good essential for life and that its proper management plays a major role in protecting the world's natural capital and ecosystems. europe currently draws up about 13% of the total available freshwater, which already indicates some water stress. in many places in europe, water abstraction is below sustainable levels, threatening wildlife, the security of society's water supply, and in some regions of southern europe, the water abstraction index has exceeded 40%. the future of industry in europe depends on finding effective responses to today's water challenges and on the responsible and efficient management of existing water resources, which directly affect human health, energy production, agriculture and food security. i'm highlighting the link between energy production, energy efficiency and water security. i stress that strategies need to be adopted at european level to ensure that the increasing demand for energy does not pose a threat to security and sustainable water availability.
in writing. − road safety is a major societal issue and an essential aspect of transport policy at union level. the harmonised implementation of a pan-european interoperable system for transmitting emergency calls from vehicles has been on the european commission's agenda since 2005 and has now become a priority. according to official ecall statistics, it is estimated that the full integration of the system into cars in eu member states will save approximately 2 500 lives annually, while reducing the severity of injuries by 10-15%. the ecall system will be of great help to road users who do not know their routes and exact location in the event of an accident and will allow emergency calls to be made without linguistic difficulties, based on the digital data included in the message format with the minimum set of data, which should reduce misunderstandings. i believe that every effort should be made to make ecall mandatory in all member states and to make it a reliable, high-quality, accessible and user-friendly service throughout the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the installation of an ecall service will improve road safety and bring significant benefits to society as a whole. its introduction is all the more important as the number of road casualties is continuously increasing. the emergency call within the system will provide increased assistance in the event of a major accident, while reducing the severity of the damage. it would also have a positive effect on incident management, helping to avoid secondary accidents or reduce traffic congestion. i draw attention to the fact that by fully integrating the system into automobiles approximately 2,500 lives will be saved annually. in this context, i stress the importance of developing a service that is reliable, accessible and easy to use for all road users. as its positive effects have already been proven by numerous studies, i consider that ecall should be made mandatory.
in writing. - the ecall system, which is triggered automatically as soon as sensors inside the vehicle detect a serious accident, is estimated to speed up the arrival of rescue teams by around 40% in urban areas and 50% in rural areas. the european commission has launched a new ecall service in the european union, which will help to reduce the number of accidents and injuries caused by cars and other vehicles. in view of the above, i support this report and believe that ecall should be a free public emergency call service for the benefit of every driver in europe, regardless of the make of their car.
in writing. - my vote in favour of the introduction of ecall is justified by the need to speed up the arrival of emergency services, save lives and reduce the damage caused by road accidents. it is estimated that ecall could save up to 2500 lives a year. the necessary technology is already available at eu level and the commission requires member states to modernise their response systems to handle ecalls by 2015. in my view, ecall should be a free public emergency call service for the benefit of every passenger in europe, regardless of the make of their car. the faster arrival of rescue teams, police and towing companies allows the accident site to be cleared faster, reducing external costs. for public authorities, the benefits of ecall are the reduction of the medical consequences of an accident, the risk of a subsequent accident at the same location and the impact of an accident on traffic. the introduction of ecall as a mandatory service for all newly approved vehicle types is also opening up new opportunities for the implementation of additional value-added services for the automotive industry.
in writing. − member states have set themselves the goal of reducing the number of fatal accidents, traffic congestion at such times and improving the way in which such events are managed. i believe that the ecall service can make an important contribution to this, particularly in terms of reducing the time needed for the arrival of the specialised emergency services. the trust of european citizens in these services is important when they travel to other member states, which is why it is beneficial to include the ecall service in all vehicles, regardless of the brand, country or current location of the vehicle, and to rapidly deploy ecall components on board vehicles without intermediate steps.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on ecall: a new 112 service for citizens, because it will greatly improve the effectiveness of emergency services on our roads. ecall represents an innovative and technologically advanced tool to promptly notify car accidents through satellite technology. this own initiative report, by stressing its countless benefits, clearly explains the european added value of the service, urging therefore the commission to submit a proposal within the framework of directive 2007/46/ec in order to ensure the deployment of a public, 112-based ecall system by 2015 in all new, type-approved cars and in all member states. i fully share the opinion that the service must be simple, affordable, operational and accessible to everybody throughout the eu, regardless of the vehicle and its location and, imperatively, free of charge and obligatory. the report also adequately stresses the need for data protection standards, in order to prevent the system to be used as a tool for tracing the journey of a vehicle.
in writing. − although the introduction of such a service has been discussed for a very long time, the fact that the decision has been delayed at eu level so far is a positive aspect because it gives member states time to update the necessary equipment in the emergency response centres (psap), which at the time of the start of the service must operate to the highest standards of technology in all member states. i would like to point out, however, that the report does not deal with the issue of personal data protection, which is rather vague and needs to be carefully reviewed and completed before the implementation of this public service, so as to avoid any interpretation in favour of interested parties using confidential information of citizens for other purposes, such as the initiation of commercial activities by car manufacturers.
in writing. − i voted for the report on ecall: a new 112 service for citizens, as it is estimated that the full integration of this system into eu cars will save around 2500 lives a year. the purpose of the ecall in-vehicle system is to ensure automatic notification of emergency services in the event of a serious accident, with the aim of reducing road fatalities and reducing the severity of injuries caused by road accidents through the rapid arrival of qualified and equipped assistance. the emergency call is generated automatically by activating sensors in the vehicle which, when activated, establish a direct voice and data connection with the emergency response centres. we draw attention to agricultural and industrial vehicles, especially agricultural tractors, which operate in remote and isolated areas and are therefore often unable to alert emergency services in the event of an accident. i voted for the paragraph asking the commission to consider whether ecall should be extended in the near future to other vehicles such as heavy goods vehicles, buses, coaches and two-wheel motor vehicles and to assess the need to introduce it also for agricultural tractors and industrial vehicles.
in writing. − as the economic and financial crisis has directly affected the living standards of many european citizens, strengthening the position of the european union as the main global destination for foreign investment is essential for the economic recovery of european states. it is imperative to adopt measures that help to increase the competitiveness of european workers and businesses, and to make member states' economies more attractive to foreign investors. adopting these policies is the only solution to create jobs and to revive economic growth. internationally, it is important that the european union remains an active promoter and participant in global economic governance processes. i support and encourage the european union's policy of continuing its efforts to conclude bilateral or multilateral agreements promoting free trade and the union's participation in such trade regimes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on increasing the attractiveness of investment. the eu must respond appropriately to the challenges of stabilising the international economy in order to fully exploit global opportunities. the eu must address weaknesses and strengthen the strengths of all countries and regions to attract local and international investment that contributes to balanced growth and cohesion. the eu is the world's largest trading bloc and foreign trade has so far played a dynamic role in promoting growth, particularly in the services sector. at the same time, attracting investment must be differentiated on two levels: making europe an attractive destination for foreign investors, making entrepreneurship attractive for local entrepreneurs. reforms, both at national and european level, are needed to improve the functioning of the single market and to make full use of the structural funds.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the attractiveness of investment in europe because it plays a vital role in strengthening competitiveness, productivity and the potential for economic growth. we need as much investment as possible, both in infrastructure and innovation, and in scientific and social initiatives. eu cohesion policy makes a significant contribution to the european economy and is one of the largest sources of community investment. the commission and the member states should propose specific measures to support all enterprises that provide jobs in line with the europe 2020 strategy and national and regional development strategies and ensure that funding decisions are based on the quality of the project and its value to national, regional, local and eu strategies. i would also like to stress that a discriminatory approach towards large companies could impede innovation and reduce the competitiveness of other eu companies, and i am referring here to smes in particular, by excluding them from key global partnerships in collective innovation and by reducing their access to advanced technology.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report by my colleague rodi kratsa because i believe that in the context of the current economic and financial crisis it is essential to focus on attracting as much foreign as possible, as well as local investment in the european union. i believe that investing in human capital training, promoting the entrepreneurial spirit and stimulating a favourable environment for small businesses are vital elements in the eu's ability to attract foreign direct investment. i would like to draw attention to the need to reduce the administrative burden faced by small and medium-sized enterprises in accessing european funds. at the same time, the development and encouragement of public-private investment and the effective use of structural instruments for economic recovery are essential to attract and retain foreign and domestic capital in the european union. but we cannot talk about attracting investment to europe without having in mind the creation of a favourable investment climate through sustained economic growth. therefore, rules should be put in place to ensure both fair competition and a level playing field.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on the attractiveness of investment in europe because the economic, financial and fiscal crisis in the eu has significantly accentuated economic and social disparities between member states and between regions, giving rise to an unequal distribution of internal and external investment within the european union. i support the union's innovation objectives and call on member states to set themselves the objective of increasing investment in education, research and innovation, given the positive medium- and long-term effects of these areas on growth and development. the eu should also promote trans-european networks, the mobility of workers, students and researchers, and strengthen cooperation and complementarities between eu economies. i called on the commission and the member states to implement the 'european egovernment action plan' which can deliver e-government services more efficiently and at lower cost, including for businesses, both locally and across borders. i believe that the eu and the member states should take action, in particular to strengthen the use of the structural funds and the cohesion fund as a catalyst for attracting additional funds from the eib, the ebrd, other international financial institutions and the private sector, while encouraging initiatives based on public-private partnerships.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament resolution on the trade aspects of the eastern partnership, because it highlights the importance of dcftas as a vital trade instrument for building up economic relationships with third countries. it also contains a very important analysis of the ongoing trade, economic and social situation of the ongoing negotiations on the eu-ukraine, eu-moldova, eu-georgia, eu-armenia and eu-azerbaijan association agreements. i particularly welcome the underlined dcftas potential for conflict prevention through economic and social cohesion, which relies on the ‘more for more’ principle as the appropriate instrument for acknowledging the efforts of those who make the most progress and motivating others to step up their efforts. the report expresses the need for the economic integration of the eastern partners with the eu to be carried out according to the necessary political and social reforms, and that institution building and proper implementation of commitments are prerequisites for the successful implementation of dcftas.
in writing. − trade is a very important component of the eu's relations with the eastern partnership countries. trade agreements are vital tools for building long-term economic relations with our eastern partners and lead to the promotion of economic reforms, the rule of law and social and environmental standards in our neighbourhood. i believe that the economic integration of the eastern partners with the eu cannot be effectively achieved without political and social reforms, without the participation of civil society in the decision-making process and the existence of economic integration among the eastern partners themselves, as the report also emphasises. the report also notes that the role of national parliaments is also important in the harmonisation of trade legislation with the eu acquis, which is a prerequisite for the conclusion and proper implementation of future agreements. there are eastern partnership countries that have made remarkable progress, such as the republic of moldova. the report welcomes the fact that moldova, despite having a fragile economy, has in recent years undergone a remarkable reform process and has greatly improved its economic performance; in this regard, it stresses the vital importance of the financial assistance provided by the international monetary fund and the macro-financial assistance provided by the eu. these are some of the reasons why i support this report.
in writing. − with regard to the trade aspects of the eastern partnership as a whole, the establishment of deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas) with the eu will certainly bring real long-term benefits for all parties involved. i believe, however, that measures concerning certain key sectors of activity for the development of the economies of these countries need to be more comprehensively analysed and regulated from the perspective of eu policies, such as the sme sector, but also the research and innovation sector. what concerns me, however, is the political and economic instability in certain countries in the region, which must be closely monitored, and that is why i believe we must be cautious, but at the same time continue our efforts to provide economic facilities to the countries concerned, as well as institutional support.
in writing. − i vote in favour of this resolution because i believe that we must show our support to the countries of the eastern partnership. the creation of deep and comprehensive free trade areas is a key incentive for democratisation. people who can trade more freely will discover on their own the advantages of a political system based on respect for the rule of law and democratic values. i also welcome the commission’s proposal to increase by 40% the funding available for the eastern neighbourhood policy in the multiannual financial framework 2014-2021. we need to spend european taxpayers’ money in an effective way and reward high achievers. the republic of moldova has made considerable progress in the past year. this would not have been possible without the eu’s support. we need to continue our negotiations with the eastern partners and open up new economic possibilities for their citizens. financial support, free trade and strong conditionality are the tools the union should use in promoting our values in the neighbourhood.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, particularly because it contains a number of very important references to trade relations with the eastern states in the agricultural sector. one of these references relates to the process of fulfilling eu sanitary and phytosanitary measures, which would guarantee the possibility for partner states to export agricultural products to the eu without putting european farmers at a disadvantage. only then will the eu's agricultural trade relationship with third countries be able to work, if the rules are the same for everyone.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the trade aspects of the eastern partnership. the conclusion and implementation of association agreements including deep and comprehensive free trade areas (dcftas) is a priority objective of the european neighbourhood policy on the eastern partners. i welcome the efforts to strengthen the eastern partnership, in particular the commission's initiatives on smes, including the facility for smes under the eastern partnership. i believe that the greatest benefits of the implementation of the gats for the eu will come from more stable and predictable trade. for example, ukraine is the eu's largest eastern partner and the ftaa opens up a new market of 46 million consumers for the eu. i stress the importance of moldova's continued alignment with the eu of its energy infrastructure and its systems of technical regulation, standardisation, conformity assessment, testing, and market surveillance. i welcome the commission's proposal for the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, which proposes a 40% increase in funding for the european neighbourhood policy. the eastern partners cannot bear the costs of legislative harmonisation and the necessary institutional and structural reforms on their own, and eu financial support should complement their reform efforts.
we support the fight against the sale of counterfeit products, but this must not be done at the risk of breaching the fundamental rights of european citizens. therefore, we cannot support the acta agreement in its current form. we are particularly concerned about the provisions of article 27, which, in paragraph 4, provides that the competent authorities of a signatory party have the authority to require an online service provider to promptly disclose to a right holder sufficient information to identify a subscriber whose account is allegedly - and here i emphasize: is allegedly - used for infringement. article 14 (2) also provides that a party may exclude from the application of the agreement small quantities of goods of a non-commercial nature contained in travellers' personal luggage, which means that it may also decide not to exclude quantities of such goods, raising serious concerns about possible breaches of the free movement of goods and persons within the european union.
in writing. i believe that intellectual property rights need to be better protected online too, but this should in no way be achieved by violating fundamental rights as is unfortunately the case with acta. the agreement flagrantly infringes at least three fundamental rights, namely the right to the protection of personal data, the right to privacy and confidentiality as also clearly demonstrated in the opinion of the european data protection supervisor. if acta were to enter into force, it would require internet providers not only to monitor all user activity on a large scale, but also to report any irregularities found to intellectual property rights holders. these measures are not only excessive and disproportionate, but they are also illegal because they create a private law enforcement system in which the providers and rights holders are the policemen and judges of the online space, to the detriment of the judicial authorities. for these reasons, i believe that, in this form, the acta agreement is unacceptable and must be rejected by the european parliament.
the budget must take account of long-term priorities and strategies. the objectives of growth, competitiveness and employment in the member states should therefore be strengthened. i am particularly in favour of concentrating an appropriate level of budgetary resources on supporting young people and smes. most companies active on the labour market fall into the sme category, but they attract only a small percentage of total investment. i therefore believe that increased support for smes could successfully help to overcome the current crisis. i would stress that fiscal responsibility is particularly important at this time of fiscal consolidation and that the union budget must be complemented by the recovery policies pursued by the member states if the impact on the economy is to be positive.
mr president, i want to thank commissioner de gucht for his important clarification. the real problem of this agreement is neither technical nor legal. it is strictly political. namely it is about trying to impose our political views on israel through trade leverages. this did not work in the past, and will definitely not work in the future. if we want to promote our values we must first secure our geostrategic interests, otherwise our values are both in vain and in peril. our strategic interest in the present context of major turmoil in the middle east requires strengthening our ties and cooperation with israel. therefore, and to this end, we should ratify acca now and not later. procrastination is not a solution.
i support the position of my colleague mr fjellner and regret that the eca agreement with israel has been delayed for so long. i would stress that its conclusion does not represent a new stage in relations but rather an implementation of the euro-mediterranean partnership. in this context, i consider that the decision has been unduly delayed for a very long time. i hope that today's debate will be the last episode in this controversy, after which parliament will finally give its consent. i therefore ask the commission to provide all the clarifications that some of my colleagues are asking for, in order to overcome the current impasse. i would also remind you that the report on israel's participation in community programmes, for which i am the shadow rapporteur, has been blocked for a very long time at the level of the afet committee. i hope that this situation can be overcome to allow cooperation with israel to progress.
mr president, i would like to thank commissioner de gucht for his explanations. this agreement between the eu and israel was referred to parliament two years ago and the consent procedure has been postponed ever since due to political considerations that i personally do not subscribe to. i think the agreement is good and one which the eu and israel need because it will facilitate the trade in medicines between the two countries with benefits in terms of healthcare for our patients. many patients in the eu do not have access to proper treatment for diseases, especially those suffering from rare diseases. the agreement could change this situation, because israel is one of the top innovators in the healthcare sector. agreeing on the rules concerning the conformity assessment and acceptance of these products will facilitate the entry on the market of innovative treatments which our patients need. i therefore think that it is the right time to stop delaying the procedure and approve this agreement.
member of the commission. − mr president, nothing is entirely technical and nothing is entirely political and you will always have this mixture in the kinds of matters that are discussed in this parliament as in any other parliament in the world. on the other hand i think the political stance of the european union with respect to israel is clear: we do not recognise the settlements. we have to apply the existing legislation with respect to the settlements in the way that has been voted upon and the same goes for possible additional legislation with respect to the settlements. that is as a starting point: we do not recognise them. what i have been doing is giving you the assurances that in good faith i can give you. they are not watertight, and all we can do is to do everything possible to monitor what we have been deciding so as to make sure that no products from the settlements come on to our markets. that is not only relevant to the acaa, there are many other provisions and many other dgs that are implicated in this and what i will take upon myself is to have a coordination meeting of the different dgs and services so that we can in the future – probably, hopefully – better monitor what is really happening. there were many other questions, for example on the fact that human rights provisions are not included in the acaa. the same goes for many other provisions. it is a protocol to an existing association agreement, which means that anything that is provided for in the association agreement, for example in respect to human rights, also of course applies to the protocols to that association agreement. you do not have to repeat them again in the protocol. there was also the question of whether we could provide you with the information in respect to monitoring. whenever the european parliament asks questions to the commission, be they oral questions or written questions, we try to respond to them and we will of course do so. so if we get questions on the application of this protocol we will try to give as fair an answer as possible and this does not, ms de keyser, only apply to the trade directorate-general, it applies to a number of other services like sanco, taxud and others. so if you want us to give information we will give the information we have. that will not necessarily be completely watertight because it is about putting into practice existing legislation and an existing protocol to an association agreement, but we will do so in good faith and it should be beyond doubt that the position of the european union with respect to israel is crystal clear: we do not recognise the settlements and israel has an obligation of cooperation with respect to the occupied territories, for example when it comes to this type of protocol.
in writing. – today’s debate is an example of how politics, veiled in ‘technicalities’, interfere with trade to the detriment of the consumers of both parties. we, in this house, are split: some have placed the consumers from their countries at the centre of their attention and, consequently, want the acca approved, while others want to use acca as a ram against israel’s settlements in the occupied territories, in an attempt to hit the israeli government. the latter’s argument is that we cannot trust the commission – which we trust on all other similar occasions – to uphold the 2010 decision of the ecj and clearly state our policy regarding those territories. and what will happen if the ‘disbelievers’ want to remain unconvinced, in spite of all the assurances of the commission and all the instruments at their disposal to check and double check that all the current regulations are respected? will it result in the approval for a technical protocol to an existing agreement being perpetually denied? i personally think that one should keep things straight and make the obligatory distinction between trade and politics; concentrating on politics for our political objectives and leaving the consumers on both sides take advantage of bilateral trade between the two parties.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, what mr klute has just said in his report is very important for the fair and human dimension of the internal market, which i have often stressed in front of you, by expressing and affirming the hope or ambition, with you, to reconcile citizens and small and mediumsized enterprises with the large market, when they feel that this large market is not for them but is only for the big and the big. that is why i have made consumer protection one of the priorities of our action this year. i have just tabled three texts on behalf of the commission which go in this direction: on the protection of investors, small investors, savings products, financial products, insurance products, and the liability of depositors. three pieces of legislation are going to be on your table and tonight we are talking about the same thing, namely this ambition to restore confidence. ladies and gentlemen, it is not just a question of market confidence, or the confidence of the major financial institutions, or confidence in the price-setting mechanism. of course, this is important, but today it is also about the confidence of citizens, consumers, who have had many reasons to be challenged or tired by too many businesses or crises, sometimes even misappropriation in the past. when we talk about trust, we are talking about the theme that mr klute raises in his report, which is not an anecdote: 30 million people in europe, 7% of the adult population of the union, do not have a bank account; at least 20% of them were deprived of access to the account or did not dare to apply for the opening or reopening of a personal account. consumers must have access to payment services to have a place and a role in the european single market. that is why i applaud your work and thank you, mr klute. i also thank mrs gebhardt for her work with several of your colleagues on the imco committee. as you know, we have played the game of dialogue and contract with the member states. in the very first stage, which you may have found a little long - the consultation and reflection phase - this recommendation of the commission was followed by only partial and contrasting effects in the member states. only a few of them have implemented some of the recommendations, some ten member states have not done anything at all since the text was adopted, and some have only partially done so. that is why your report, mr klute, comes at the right time to serve as a basis, a very good basis, for the legislative proposals which i will be presenting to you subject to the agreement of the college next november, that is to say in a few weeks. i would like to mention briefly a few points which will guide our proposal. first, guaranteed access for people without accounts. the beneficiaries are, of course, the first to be affected, that is to say, those who do not have access to payment services in a member state, those who have been refused the opening of a bank account because of their social or financial situation, unemployment, debt or because they do not reside in a state where they do need an account - i am thinking of students or seasonal workers. this is the population involved. as far as the claimants are concerned, should they all be required to provide basic accounts or only some of them? if so, how can we determine which ones? i think we must first look at the practical aspects of the different solutions and look at national traditions, since what matters here is first and foremost that there is effective access to basic payment accounts. beyond that, we need to find quality standards for the content of the basic account, as you yourself said, mr klute. i will not be satisfied with a basic discounted payment account which does not allow me to carry out the simplest operations necessary for daily life. at the same time, we have to be careful not to have disproportionate demands, but i don't want this basic bank account that we're going to be working on to be a discount account. on the question of whether or not to include the possibility of a discovery, i have no preconceived notions. there are advantages and disadvantages and we are prepared to work on the basis of the proposals which mr klute has been kind enough to outline. the third issue is the principle of affordability. in some states, there are basic payment accounts with no limitation on the bank fees associated with them. it is also noted that banks offering basic payment accounts often charge a high price. can accessibility be considered as assured? i don't think he did. i believe in the virtue of a reasonable pricing principle, which allows for genuine accessibility, rather than a rigid ceiling around a precise and uniform amount. the principle of reasonable cost should therefore not prevent providers from innovating and offering diversified forms of basic payment accounts within, of course, common standards. i am therefore quite in favour, ladies and gentlemen, of the idea of preserving a certain flexibility for the member states on the question of prices. we will have to work, and i am working, on the question of the relevant information to be given to consumers and also on the mechanisms for resolving possible disputes between consumers and traders. finally, the last important point is the role of the states. we need the member states to get this text adopted. we must look very closely at what is being done at national level and build on what is being done best. as you know, ladies and gentlemen, a number of member states are not in favour of this idea or are not enthusiastic about this initiative of the union. we will therefore have to act in a convincing and determined manner and develop an effective and balanced proposal to convince them to support our proposal in the council. in any case, you can, very clearly, count on my own determination in the next few weeks.
i thank mr klute for initiating this report. indeed, access to basic banking services is not only a prerequisite for the smooth functioning of the single market, but also a requirement for economic and social progress. this access to basic banking services should be at the lowest possible cost to citizens and businesses. unfortunately, however, we are in a banking world where we see the abuse of citizens by banks, especially by uninformed citizens, in terms of the fees charged for various banking services. moreover, we are in a banking world where we have learned with astonishment that some large banks have even manipulated the market determination of those reference rates which are taken as the basis in variable rate credit agreements. in my country, romania, and in other countries, the banking system is dominated by foreign banks. and what do we see in these countries? that the taxes that are paid for banking services by the citizens of my country and other countries are higher than the taxes that these banks charge in their countries, where they have their headquarters. there are also free banking services that in my country and in other countries are charged on a tax basis. that is why i shall be voting in favour of mr klute's report tomorrow.
it is of concern that in some member states citizens do not have access to basic banking services and the bureaucratic process is still cumbersome, thus greatly reducing the use of electronic commerce and online money transfers. this initiative is absolutely necessary because it supports financially vulnerable and commercially less attractive consumers, who will now have access to basic payment accounts without restrictions imposed by banks on subjective grounds, thus benefiting from simplified procedures. i believe that banking service providers must be encouraged to channel their efforts into broad campaigns to encourage and inform citizens. (the president interrupted the speaker)
having a bank account is a prerequisite for full participation in economic and social life. this will enable consumers to enjoy all the benefits of the internal market and, in particular, the freedom of movement. i would point out that despite this fact, at the moment, as my colleague mr tarabella has said, some 30 million people still do not have a bank account. the commission also found that the union industry had a significant market share in the union market. that is why i believe it is important to promote financial and social inclusion for consumers across europe. in this way, the lives of several million europeans can be significantly improved. it is important to put an end to practices that exclude people from access to such a basic service.
the proposal for a report on the application of direct payments to farmers in 2013 provides the necessary legal framework at this stage. the rules proposed by the commission and the rapporteur, whom i thank, are balanced and suitable for new member states such as bulgaria and romania. no adjustments are foreseen for these countries as the process of phasing in direct payments has not yet been completed. there are also no net ceilings for the total amount of direct payments for romania and bulgaria, which is a correct decision. the report is another step forward in preparing the new european agricultural policy. of course, the steps that follow are more important and will present a substantial challenge. we will soon be discussing the reports of the committee on agriculture and each subject will be touched upon at the appropriate time. but in the context of today's report, i would like to stress that it will be important to continue to reflect together on how we can build a fair system, for example: how will we make sure that romania and bulgaria, which are still in the process of phasing in direct payments, can do so as early as 2014.
in writing. there is a broad consensus in europe that the current system of direct payments will have to change as part of the reform of the common agricultural policy. we seem to agree that we need to increase the efficiency of spending payments and to relieve producers of unnecessary administrative burdens. however, i would like to reiterate that these payments - although they require considerable resources - continue to be the driving force of agricultural policy. this is particularly the case in the member states that joined after 2004, where farmers have a very low standard of living and where any reduction in the level of direct payments would have serious consequences for the agriculture of the region. i think europe must face the fact that the viability of agricultural production in the eastern half of the continent depends on maintaining the level of direct payments.
in writing. in the context of the negotiations on the reform of the eu's common agricultural policy, and as this draft regulation is the first report of this reform package to be adopted, i am pleased that the negotiations between the council and parliament have not encountered major problems and that a compromise was reached at first reading. given that direct payments have been and continue to be an essential instrument for supporting european agriculture and farmers in the member states, it was essential to ensure the continuity of this instrument for the immediate period following, namely for the calendar year 2013. farmers in member states benefiting from complementary national direct payments until 2012 need a transitional period until the adoption of the future legislation on direct payments, which will only enter into force as from 1 january 2014.
member of the commission. - mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i am pleased to have this opportunity to thank the european parliament, its committee on agriculture and rural development and all the rapporteurs for the considerable work that has already been done. these efforts have enabled us to make progress on the issues of alignment, which we all want to see completed. as we know, this alignment of agricultural legislation on the lisbon treaty is first of all a very technical matter, as is also clear from what the rapporteurs have presented, and quite complex from a legal point of view, but it is also a work which is of great political sensitivity and importance, particularly for the european parliament, but also for all the institutions involved in the decision-making and implementation of the common agricultural policy. i am fully aware of the political importance of this alignment debate for the european parliament. as mr de castro has mentioned, the discussions began under the hungarian presidency and continued for almost a year. we were very close to an agreement at one point, but we finally found ourselves in a deadlock after the last trilogue on 20 december 2011, under the polish presidency. the danish presidency then decided to include the alignment part of the four main regulations in the debate on the reform of the common agricultural policy and to continue negotiations on the other alignment dossiers separately. i wish to be clear. i have said this several times before the committee on agriculture, but i would like to repeat it: i have always been concerned to defend the prerogatives of the european parliament, as they derive from the treaty of lisbon, in all the alignment packages, in order to achieve a balanced distribution of powers between the council and parliament. for each grey area, and wherever legally possible - i want to emphasise this - i preferred an approach which allows both institutions to play their part. i have tried to go along with parliament in favouring delegated acts and in a strict reading of article 43 (3) of the lisbon treaty, which mr de castro mentioned. that is why, as an example, i have given priority in the regulation on direct aids to a role for both the council and parliament in financial discipline. that is why i have also given priority to delegated acts in defining the obligations to maintain permanent pasture. there are many examples, including in the very sensitive area of sanctions, and i invite you to examine them in detail: you will see that the commission has made efforts to go along with parliament. it is not surprising that, on this basis, which ensures a stronger role for the european parliament, the council has not always been in agreement and, of course, compromises have had to be found. but overall, on the basis i have just outlined, the overall compromise package in each of the alignment operations has strengthened the prerogatives of parliament. in any case, we must avoid that this alignment has an impact on the substantive discussions on the reform of the common agricultural policy, which are very important for all of us. i regard this vote as a sign from parliament that this is the case. as regards the regulation on organic farming, which mr häusling mentioned, we have not yet reached agreement on the most sensitive point, namely the procedure for authorizing the withdrawal of substances which can be used in this form of farming. i understand very well that you consider the authorization or non-authorisation of certain substances or classes of substances to be of a political nature, particularly in the context of organic farming. therefore, you cannot accept to be excluded from the decision-making process on these substances. i understand that very well and i support that approach. i believe, however, that your hesitation is closely linked to the current drafting of the organic farming regulation. the criteria for the authorization of substances can be improved and adapted. i can understand that many of you feel that it is desirable to update them and make them more accurate whenever possible. that is exactly what we propose to do. the commission has just adopted a report on the experience gained in applying the organic regulation since 2009, when it came into force. this report is the first step in a debate on how to improve the current legal framework for organic production. we have just launched an evaluation, an impact study, which will include updating the criteria for the authorization of substances used in organic farming. this analysis will be followed by legislative proposals to improve the basic regulation. parliament will be fully involved in this process, which will also include the criteria for the authorization of substances, which will be included in the basic act as a result of the improvement of the regulation we are going to propose. parliament will be involved, because this amendment to the regulation will go through the ordinary legislative procedure. once we have debated the substance and have reached agreement on the criteria, in particular, i believe that the procedural questions which we are dealing with today will be much less acute, because this adaptation of the basic legislative framework will be an opportunity to set, with you, more precise authorization criteria. i hope that will allay your concerns. in conclusion, i welcome your proposal to put the alignment dossiers to the vote in plenary tomorrow. this will help to establish the european parliament's position. then it will be possible to resume interinstitutional discussions on a clearer basis. i hope we can reach an agreement soon and take away all your worries. i repeat: i will be directly and fully involved in this final discussion process. whenever we have the opportunity to take a decision which strengthens the role of parliament, while legally respecting the provisions of the lisbon treaty and the regulation under consideration, i will ensure that parliament can fully assume its role as co-legislator and monitor the implementation of these legislative acts.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on regional development. − as rapporteur for the regi opinion on eafrd support for rural development, i congratulate all rapporteurs on the excellent papers presented in this joint debate. the european rural area faces many challenges: major regional disparities, rural areas in demographic decline, low per capita income, less developed service sector, low access to broadband internet. to meet these challenges, rural development policy has as its main objectives to increase the competitiveness of the agricultural and forestry sector, to develop rural areas and the environment and to encourage diversification of the rural economy. in the light of these priorities, and on the basis of the regi commission's powers, i support, in the context of this report, 1. maintaining the balance between environmental protection and local development needs; 2. involvement of national, regional and local representatives in national rural networks; 3. encouraging the creation of online advice platforms for farmers using broadband, and, not least:4. the compatibility of eafrd aid with the objectives of economic and social cohesion, as well as territorial cohesion.
mr president of the european council, the next six months are extremely important for the future of europe. you have a difficult task and a great responsibility, but at the same time you can have a very positive balance sheet at the end of 2012. from a legislative point of view, the most important projects are the cfm and the european horizontal policies. you don't have a rich legacy from the danish presidency. there's no idea what the total budget is. the european council discussed growth and jobs, but said nothing clear about the budget, even though it is the main factor for exactly what is wanted: growth and jobs. the danish presidency instead focused on the important elements of horizontal policies, which are covered by the codecision procedure. it is the duty of the cypriot presidency to return to the basic treaty and to start talks with the european parliament in order to have hope of a budget this year. the cypriot presidency is tasked with mediating the dispute between the european parliament and the council over the schengen regulation. there is a situation which must not be tolerated: member states which have obvious weaknesses at their external borders refuse a coordinated approach to schengen evaluation and at the same time block access to the schengen area to other member states which have invested and which have an extremely high level of security at their external borders. you have the difficult task of resolving both differences. i do not understand why mr swoboda mentions hungary when he talks about romania. he is the leader of a democratic group in the european parliament and should know very well what the values of democracy are and how they must be defended. and in romania and in hungary and in austria. mr. president, in romania there is no political struggle. what has happened in the last few weeks and what will happen next is an attack on democracy. the disregard of the decisions of the constitutional court, the high court of justice and the court of cassation, the change of heads of institutions without respecting the regulations or to influence the judiciary, the attack on judges are very clear actions against democracy. please analyse the situation very clearly and intervene to defend the values of the european union.
mr president, first of all i want to thank you for your public commitment to support romania and bulgaria in their efforts to join the schengen area. secondly, europe is going through a very difficult period and we need more europe. we need solidarity, we need a financial transaction tax, we need eurobonds, we need a multiannual financial framework that speaks to economic growth, reducing youth unemployment and job creation. but we need, in this difficult period for europe, more democracy, more attention to respect for european values and respect for democracy in europe. there's been a general hysteria in the european parliament for a couple of days now about democracy in romania. you saw the speeches in the plenary today. but i was here when they were talking about berlusconi, when they were talking about freedom of the press in italy, in hungary, when they were talking about the democratic lapses of orban, borissov and so on. the same colleagues in the european people's party backed the measures taken by berlusconi, borissov and orban. i say that you have both the duty and the leverage to check and watch that democracy is respected in europe and i am convinced that you will discover very important steps taken by the ponta government also in terms of freedom of the press. for two weeks now, the romanian press is no longer a threat to national security, which is very important for romania and for europe.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, this debate clearly demonstrated that the programme presented by the president-in-office, mr christofias, is very ambitious and very welcome, and also that your presidency, mr christofias, would also face several challenges on the economic and political front. from this debate it was quite clear that the top priorities will be multiannual financial framework (mff) negotiations, work on anti-crisis measures, including measures for boosting growth and jobs, deepening of the economic and monetary union, advancing the work on a banking union and, of course, harvesting the potential of the single market. i would just like to make a couple of remarks on the top priorities. with regard to the discussion on the multiannual financial framework, i think that, after listening to this debate, we have to remind everybody that this is not a budget for brussels or strasbourg, but one which brings clear european added value to european citizens, regions and european communities. the smart spending principle is clearly reflected in the fact that more than 94% of the mff and of each annual eu budget goes back to the member states, regions and eu citizens with clear added value from the european union. this is not always achievable in the national budgeting processes. so we can see that it is the best investment tool the eu has in order to boost smart growth and sustainable jobs. as regards smart spending, we cannot pass budgets which do not allow the european union and the commission to meet their legal obligation and to pay for successfully completed cohesion projects, especially during the current harsh economic crisis. as regards the importance of the eu 27 – very soon the eu 28 – approach, we cannot advance proposals which would favour decisions or policies at the expense of cohesion, which is so important for all new – and many old – member states going through economic difficulties. i think that the current crisis has clearly shown that we need more europe, we need deeper economic and monetary union and we need to charter the way towards political union. the commission wants to proceed first with the banking union because it is the most pressing, it is achievable in a short period of time and we do not require a treaty change. it is also crucial for restoring confidence in the euro and the eu economy. we need this despite the fact that the eu has done the most in comparison with other g20 members as regards capital requirements for the banks – which have been discussed so much today – and the new banking regulations. as regards the single market, we have a lot to do. removing the barriers will bring thousands of jobs and billions of euros to our gdp. we need to act fast and with determination. we have high hopes that the cyprus presidency will achieve agreement by the end of this year on proposals concerning public procurement, professional qualifications and the other growth-enhancing measures that were identified in the annual growth survey for this year. i would like to highlight that in your overall approach, as regards the mff negotiations, the single market legislative work and the deepening of the emu, it will be the community method and respect for the communitarian principle which will guide the way for your presidency. this is really appreciated from our side. after listening to honourable members mr mitchell and mr callanan, this is how we can clearly demonstrate that we want to succeed and succeed together. many speakers have already shown their appreciation of your thorough preparation for the presidency and your declared determination to succeed. the commission will do its utmost to help you to achieve your goals because this would be the best news for european citizens. therefore i would like to wish you lots of luck and success with your presidency.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, i should first like to warmly thank the political group leaders for their warm words about the cypriot presidency and the preparation of our country for the exercise of the presidency of the council. you will realise that this is very important and encouraging for us, because we represent a small country which aspires to serve the union selflessly, without any national purpose, without wanting to promote its own interests, for the simple reason that it is a small country, it is a new member of the union and, as several speakers have said, the cypriots are a people of good will and people who want to honour both their country and the union. there are serious problems. i notice, naturally, a whining. and that's not by chance. the complaint is rooted in the serious problems we are facing, first and foremost economic and social - as a union and as individual countries. how can we cope with them? we must face them together. the union's institutions will have to work very closely together. and what i said in my opening statement is not a figure of speech. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we shall continue to debate, to blame the council, the commission, and others who will say 'the european parliament is not doing well' and you will realise that we shall not get anywhere. the european union is the union of compromises, whether we like it or not, because we represent different countries, sometimes different interests. we, as an honest and objective mediator, will try to intervene to reconcile positions, views and policies. we are trying something new: to combine budgetary discipline with growth and social cohesion. i like to think this is something new. let's try it, because the means we've tried so far are bringing us deeper into the crisis. and that is not to the credit of the union. the people expect a lot from the european union. the cypriot people, when we all unanimously decided to join the european union, celebrated and breathed freely because we were about to join this great family. he saw a better future ahead. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. we are not advocating communist policies. i would like to comment on this in particular, because things have been said, such as 'the communist president', etc. yes, i am who i am, and i'm very proud of who i am. i come from a party which has served the cypriot people for 90 years, which has served democracy, a party which has taken part in the war against fascism on a massive scale with many victims, which has defended democracy during the coup, which has fought peacefully to get rid of colonialism, which has offered workers better living conditions. he's a leader in this, my party. so, regardless of what happened in the soviet union or in any other country, i can speak for akel, i can speak for cyprus and for myself as a fighter for democracy. the five years we've been running this country, i think, is evidence of that fact. the european union has a duty to ensure that the rights of the cypriot people are respected and that the democratic rights of the cypriot people are respected. did the friends feel the 7 years that christophe presided over the house of representatives diminish and did they see any violation of their rights in front of the seats? on the contrary, democracy in cyprus is fully functioning and we are all proud of that. therefore, do not worry that the communist will do harm to the union. the communist will strive for a better union, with more social justice. i am saying this and i will always fight for it within the institutions of the european union. i'm not going to start a revolution, don't be afraid. as regards cyprus, i would like to say to mr watson, with whom we have been discussing the cyprus problem for many years - because i am a member of the contact group with the turkish cypriot community - that he should not come to me and ask me to talk to turkey. you should go to turkey, mr. watson. and tell them to "talk to christophe", because they refuse to talk to christophe. and here turkey is being accused of principle. i say to mr erdogan: 'mr prime minister, please allow me to speak to you because i have a vision i want to share with you, which concerns both the greek cypriots and the turkish cypriots and which, in the end, is in turkey's interest to realize.' i do not harbor any hostile feelings towards the turkish people. on the contrary, i am a rival to the ordinary turkish people who are fighting for their democratic rights even today, in the turkey of change and modernization. the european union is not only a political force, but also a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force, and it is a political force. turkey is an occupying power, i want to stress that. and the european union, in my view, as a whole, should, as a matter of principle, condemn any action by turkey which undermines the role of the republic of cyprus as a state, not just a member of the union, but a member of all international organizations, first and foremost the united nations. we cannot tolerate turkey acting in this way. i'm all set. the five years of my presidency have been years of continuous, uninterrupted, tireless effort to bring about dialogue and a solution to the cyprus problem. after all, when i was taking up the fight to be elected president and i had my friend giannaki as my opponent, i made a clear statement, and my statement was that the first, if not the sole, reason why i am running for the presidency of the republic of cyprus is to work hard, given my good relations with many turkish cypriots and turkish cypriot political parties, so to work hard and tirelessly for the reunification of my country. i am certainly in favour of peaceful coexistence and fraternal cooperation between greek cypriots and turkish cypriots. cyprus belongs to the cypriots, whether they are greek cypriots, turkish cypriots, maronites, armenians or latins. you see, we are a multicultural country, anyway, and because i'm a bit of an internationalist - the communists are internationalists too - i want us all to work together for the good of our country, as masters of our homeland. the british have no place in cyprus, the turks have no place in cyprus, and our greek brothers, in the bad sense, have no place in cyprus. we must be released and you can be sure that we will then have privileged relations with turkey and britain and, of course, with greece. relationships will be privileged, and very close and very good. this is my promise to the cypriot people, and i reaffirm it before this fine body of the european union, the european parliament. i've given my best. there is no response from turkey, because there are expansionist policies on the part of turkey towards cyprus and expansionist aspirations. and i hate to say it, but that's the reality. i'll continue until the end of my term. i know that after the end of my term i will not be seeking the presidency of the republic again, but until the end of my term, until the last moment, i will continue to fight tirelessly for the restoration of my country and, of course, for a union which is a union for its citizens, for the peoples of europe. we have a hot potato in our hands: the multiannual financial framework. we will try with all our might to find compromise solutions, but we insist that there must be growth and social cohesion. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect. i am against market failure and i want to make that clear. it also requires intervention by governments, which are elected by the people to govern. we cannot be governed by the market. the governments that are democratically elected by the people must govern. i promise you that all the issues raised have been recorded. i do not want to comment on all of them, of course, there are very important suggestions and proposals which we must take seriously and, in cooperation with president schulz, the european parliament and president barroso, we will try to find those solutions which will best serve the collective approach to the problems of the union. i would like to thank you very much for listening to me, and i would like to thank you again for the views and comments you have expressed, which we will take very seriously. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
in writing. i believe that the priorities set demonstrate the serious commitment of the presidency to contribute to the achievement of the european union's objectives of sustainable growth, social cohesion and job creation. i would like to wish the cypriot presidency every success in achieving the ambitious programme they have designed. in the following, i would like to refer to the environmental component of the action programme. as regards biodiversity policy, i urge the cypriot presidency to promote serious commitments by the parties and concrete action as possible in the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity or in the meetings on the cartagena protocol on biosafety. i also believe that the presidency should support the mainstreaming of biodiversity policy funding into all future funding lines of the 2014-12 multiannual financial framework. turning now to water policy, i believe that the presidency needs to show ambition in the negotiations on the revision of the water policy priority substances directive and also to ensure that the objective of investing in sustainable water management can be achieved through the future union budget.
in writing. through its work programme, the cypriot presidency of the council of the eu has committed itself to promoting social cohesion, economic and social development and job creation, especially for young people. i wish to wish the cypriot presidency of the council of the eu success and welcome its commitment to extend the schengen area to include romania and bulgaria. i welcome the cyprus presidency's programme in the field of transport and, as rapporteur of the european parliament for the digital tachograph regulation, i wish to assure the presidency of the eu council of the willingness of the parliament to make progress on this dossier in the period ahead. parliament adopted its first reading position on tuesday 3 july, and a first meeting between parliament's team of rapporteurs and the presidency of the eu council has already been set for the week of 9-12 july. also, given the importance of trans-european transport, energy and communications infrastructure, i appreciate the priority given by the cypriot presidency of the council of the eu to the adoption of the connecting europe facility. last but not least, as itre committee rapporteur for the opinions on the erasmus for all and creative europe programmes, i call on the cypriot presidency of the eu council to support the introduction of the eu industrial policy and the educational mobility of young entrepreneurs into the erasmus for all programme.
i voted for this report because it is important from a legal, financial and functional point of view. the implementation of the lisbon treaty requires a clear definition of the categories of acts specific to each situation. i'm thinking more of the delegated acts. at the same time, let us not forget that the common agricultural policy is the most important chapter in the union's budget. therefore, any changes should aim at simplifying and making the system more efficient. this will enable us to support farmers by reducing red tape and eliminating complicated procedures. in this context, i support the amendments proposed by my colleague mr la via concerning the expenditure financed by the eagf and the recovery procedure. i hope that both the commission and the council will take a constructive approach to reaching an agreement.
i abstained on this report because we should have waited for the decision of the european court of justice before we could take a decision. i'm a big internet user and i would not like to be restricted from using the online service. i also want my rights to be protected and my personal data to be properly protected. so i understand the concerns that acta has generated for many citizens. but maybe they were also caused by insufficient information, because at the same time, we're being assaulted by counterfeit products. they affect our finances, they endanger our health and they are unfair competition for european producers. so we need an international treaty to fight counterfeiting, which is why i think today's decision is rash.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important that the existing financial structure be maintained for the coming year. the establishment of net ceilings will ensure the continuity of payment levels for farmers and the adjustment mechanism with a modulation-like effect will help to achieve this. i believe that we must also take into account the consequences of the gradual introduction of direct payments in the new member states. it is therefore a good thing that there will be no adjustments for romania, because in my country the process is not yet complete. at the same time, the value of the net ceilings for romania will not change next year either. i believe that a transition mechanism for 2013 would be beneficial and could guarantee a smooth transition to the future reformed system.
i fully support this resolution. i believe that every european citizen should have access, free of charge or for a small amount of money, to a basic bank account because:1. the annual opportunity cost of not having access to a payment account is estimated to be around eur 250 per consumer; 2. access to basic paid services is, in particular, a precondition for access to jobs, health services and housing. in addition, criteria such as the level or regularity of income, employment, credit history, level of indebtedness, individual insolvency or turnover should not be taken into account for the opening of a basic payment account. moreover, access should in no case be conditional on the purchase of other products or services, such as insurance or an additional account.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the current legislation must be brought into line with the new legal reality. i would particularly stress the need to establish common rules for direct support schemes for farmers. at the same time, i believe that all changes should aim at simplifying the system in order to reduce the administrative burden on member states. and the fact that states will be able to grant certain derogations to farmers will lead to greater legal clarity and certainty. the common agricultural policy is the most important part of the union budget. i therefore believe that the establishment of an agreement should be a priority and that both the commission and the council should take a positive attitude in this respect.
in writing. − the comitology system, which was based on the classical comitology procedures and the regulatory procedure for control, was abolished by the treaty of lisbon. the new system consists of a two-tier structure comprising delegated and implementing acts and enabling the commission to exercise its implementing and enforcement powers. the commission's proposal is correct in substance and, in view of the new legal reality, i believe that the current legislation needs to be aligned and for this reason i support this report.
in writing. − i consider that the adaptation of the legislation in force to the provisions of the lisbon treaty is of great importance, especially in areas where the relevant legislation was not adopted by the codecision procedure, and therefore also for agriculture.
in writing. − in recent years, member states have requested a reduction in the number of reports submitted to the commission. under the current rules, synthesis reports are to be submitted every two years, bringing the total to three reports. the new proposal therefore takes account of the recommendations of the member states and limits the number of reports to two. i consider that, in addition to the reporting simplifications, the amendments concerning cross compliance and the use of advisory services represent a particularly important simplification which will significantly contribute to reducing the administrative burden for the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this agreement as it is of particular importance that this regulation is aligned with the provisions of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. a clear distinction should be made between implementing acts and measures on the one hand and delegated acts and measures on the other. i support the commission's proposal because i believe it is aimed at an efficient and constructive use of the funds available. they must be well targeted to the beneficiaries to which they apply. i also welcome the measures and rules on simplification to ensure that the system works better. and the harmonisation of the eafrd and the erdf is particularly important in this context. i would also like to stress the need to strengthen governance in this area so that all stakeholders can actively participate in the decision-making process.
in writing. − food security is a longstanding concern of the world, and agriculture is the only branch of production that can provide food security for humans, export availability and replenishment of national reserves. the commission proposal ensures an efficient and targeted use of funds in terms of the treatment of beneficiaries. the commission has also proposed that the commission should be able to submit a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the member states.
in writing. − it is important to the european parliament that, in the new legislative context opened up by the treaty of lisbon, the new provisions concerning the commission's executive and implementing powers be adapted to the treaty text.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 on support for rural development from the european agricultural fund for rural development (eafrd). the proposed regulation amending regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 aims to extend the scope of the measure on producer groups, to reduce the number of synthesis reports and to simplify their content in strategic monitoring, to facilitate the use of advisory services in a more personalised way, and to monitor cases of non-compliance with cross-compliance. under that regulation, farm advisory services cover at least one or more of the statutory management and good agricultural and environmental conditions requirements laid down in regulation (ec) no 73/2009 and, where applicable, one or more of the labour safety rules based on union legislation. the european parliament requested that the works in the field carried out in the context of rural development measures and carried out by the final beneficiaries using the workforce, materials and equipment of the enterprise should also be eligible for eafrd contributions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it very important to update this regulation. this will allow a clear distinction to be made between the delegated powers conferred on the commission to adopt non-legislative acts and those conferred to adopt implementing acts. at the same time, the common organisation of the single market must take account of the differences between the commission's delegated and implementing powers. i believe that the adoption of the new regulation should take place as soon as possible in order to respond to the urgent problems and concerns relating to the common organisation of the single market. in this context, the general reform of the common agricultural policy should proceed under normal conditions and should not be impeded or hampered by additional problems. i believe that there must be a balance and effective cooperation between the commission and parliament if the legislative process is to proceed smoothly.
in writing. − i think that in the situation of parity between parliament and the council in the common agricultural policy, it is important that the preferred procedure is that of delegated acts, of course, provided that the technical conditions for them are met.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products (single cmo regulation). the proposal aims to update regulation 1234/2007 on the common organisation of the single market to take account of the distinction between delegated and implementing powers of the commission introduced by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). in addition, the new proposal for a regulation also includes the proposals to amend regulation 1234/2007 in order to make the common organisation of the single market clearer and more accessible to all interested parties. this regulation contains all the fundamental elements of the single cmo. in certain cases, the setting of prices, charges, aids and contingencies is inextricably linked to these fundamental elements. in order to stabilise markets and guarantee a fair standard of living for the population in agricultural areas, a system of differentiated price support for different sectors was developed, in parallel with the introduction of direct support schemes. this approach allows account to be taken of the different needs of each sector on the one hand and of the interdependencies between sectors on the other.
in writing. − i agree with the importance of the changeover to the new system and the european parliament's prerogative to scrutinise the european commission's initiatives through delegated acts.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that this regulation must be brought into line with the treaty as soon as possible, so as to take account of the differences between implementing measures on the one hand and delegated measures on the other. this adaptation is particularly important, especially with regard to organic and ecological products, in order to pay greater attention to consumer expectations as regards the quality of those products. the rules, measures and conditions necessary for the effective application of the regulation will therefore be adopted by the commission by means of delegated acts. i believe that this can ensure the proper functioning of the single market and make trade more efficient. i would like to stress the importance of the uniform application of this regulation throughout the union in order to avoid problems or divergences.
in writing. − organic farming is a dynamic sector in my country of origin, with an upward trend in recent years in both the crop and livestock sectors. one of the key conditions for the development of organic farming is the promotion of the eco-concept to raise consumers' awareness of the benefits of consuming organic products, so that they will offer a higher price for clean products, the quality of which is guaranteed by a system of inspection and certification. to achieve this, i believe we need to take greater account of consumer expectations for the quality of organic products and at the same time ensure that the rules are properly applied by all the actors involved and, not least, that the single market and trade are functioning properly.
in writing. − i believe that consumer expectations of the quality of organic products must be taken into account in order to ensure the proper application of the rules by the authorities, bodies and operators concerned, and for the proper functioning of the single market and trade.
in writing. − although technical in nature, the regulation in question is of particular importance as organic production represents 5% of the eu's agricultural area and eur 18 billion in sales (certified organic products). the amendments to the previous regulation concern requirements for manufacturers and the authorisation of certain products, the eu ecolabel and aspects relating to the audit of control bodies and authorities. however, in my view, this revision of the regulations is purely administrative. we still need to work hard in the future to simplify regulations for the benefit of farmers and producers in the organic production sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on organic production and labelling. i believe that operators must respect the production rules laid down at european level and the measures and conditions necessary for their implementation. for the implementation of this regulation, the commission should be empowered to adopt implementing acts concerning the assignment of code numbers under the control system, the indication of the origin of products and uniform rules on the exchange of information to be transmitted by member states, third countries, control authorities and control bodies. it is important to publish that information as well as information on the recognition of third countries, control authorities and control bodies for the purposes of equivalence and compliance. i consider that the organic production logo of the european union may be used in the labelling, presentation and advertising of products which comply with the requirements laid down in this regulation. it is necessary to achieve a uniform application of this regulation in the union in particular of the methods and conditions to be taken into account for electronic certification in order to ensure transparency through a rapid, efficient, accurate and cost-effective exchange of information.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the current legislation needs to be adapted as quickly as possible to the new legal reality. the regulation on controls by member states of operations forming part of the system of financing by the european agricultural guarantee fund should therefore also be amended accordingly. in this respect, i support the commission's proposal, which envisages a coherent use of the provisions on delegated and implementing acts. at the same time, i stress the importance of aligning this regulation with the provisions of the treaty as regards implementing powers. i would point out the importance of this adaptation in the current context of the forthcoming reform of the common agricultural policy, which should take place under the best possible conditions.
in writing. − i think this new two-tiered system, which includes delegated and implementing acts (the first category includes parliament's veto) and allows the commission to exercise its implementing powers, is a very good one.
in writing. - i voted with the overwhelming majority of my colleagues in favour of the whole package proposed by the committee on agriculture on alignment with the provisions of the lisbon treaty. this package is important not only for its provisions but also for the fact that it safeguards our new prerogatives of co-decision in the field of agriculture and rural development, conferred by the treaty. parliament must defend these prerogatives, exercise them in accordance with the mandate given by the electorate, especially now, in the period of the great debates on the future of the cap.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because the conclusion of the eu-russia agreement on the maintenance of commitments on trade in services is part of the new legal framework generated by russia's accession to the wto, allowing for a greater opening of the russian market to services from the european union, as well as better conditions for european economic actors already present on the services market in russia, through provisions on non-discrimination and free competition. the benefits will be significant for european service providers, as exports in this area reached a turnover of eur 22.6 billion in 2010, representing 20% of total eu exports to russia. in addition, the bilateral agreement will allow european investors to continue to benefit from preferential treatment more favourable than that offered by the multilateral trading regime in two areas (maritime trade and temporary movement of employees for professional purposes) where current commitments towards the union under the 1994 partnership and cooperation agreement are stricter than those russia will take upon formal accession to the wto.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu-russia agreement on trade in motor vehicle parts and components is linked to wto commitments. in addition, it provides a compensation mechanism for eu automotive component manufacturers, should their exports to russia decrease as a result of the russian investment programme in the field, until 2018. if this risk materializes, it is important that preferential conditions for european exporters can be maintained, especially as it is difficult to assess at the moment how trade in cars and car components between the eu and russia will develop in the coming years. in addition to the measures implemented under the investment programme, several factors may determine the increase or decrease in the volume of trade in this area, including the evolution of global demand for motor vehicles, but also the development of infrastructure in russia. i therefore support the approval of this compensation mechanism, which supports eu car and auto component manufacturers in the event of a significant drop in exports in this area.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the conclusion of the eu-russia agreement on trade in motor vehicle parts and components. the union negotiated this bilateral agreement in order to have a compensation mechanism for manufacturers of automotive components in case eu exports of such products to russia decrease as a result of the implementation of the russian automotive investment programme until 2018. the triggering of the countervailing mechanism (article 5) provides that if exports of certain automotive parts and components from the eu to russia decrease by 3% over a 12-month period compared to a benchmark calculated on the basis of eu exports to russia in 2010, russia must allow the import of parts and components originating in the eu with reduced import duties in quantities equal to the decrease in eu exports. the compensation mechanism shall apply for a period of at least 12 months and shall be reviewed every 12 months thereafter. in exceptional economic circumstances, where the total number of new cars sold in russia in the year in which the mechanism is triggered is significantly lower than in the previous year, the compensation mechanism shall not apply under the agreement. russia will administer the compensation quotas through an import licensing system.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the eu-russia agreement on the introduction or increase by the russian federation of export duties on raw materials is designed to protect the union from additional restrictions on export duties. since the russian federation considers that it can apply new or additional export duties to products not included in the wto commodity concessions and commitments list, it is important that the union obtain bilateral guarantees that increased duties will not be introduced on raw materials in which it has a major, existing or potential interest. the commission has also assessed the impact of the measures on the union industry, in particular the impact of the measures on the union industry's financial situation. although the rapporteur has noted a number of shortcomings in the commitments made by the russian federation through this agreement, it is useful as a temporary measure pending the conclusion of a more stringent raw material trade treaty with the russian federation.
in writing. − russia's accession to the world trade organisation brings numerous benefits to the european union, especially in terms of imports of raw materials into the member states. but the problem of russian export duties is an obstacle to better economic cooperation. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, including the establishment of a common foreign and security policy. i therefore believe that the principle of reciprocity in eu-russia trade relations should be emphasised, by regulating and implementing concrete measures that benefit both sides, especially in critical sectors of activity such as energy or mineral resources.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the decision on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the eu and the russian federation on the introduction or increase of export duties on raw materials. the bilateral agreement with the russian federation was negotiated in the context of the accession of the russian federation to the world trade organisation and can be formally concluded after the approval of the european parliament. in the context of its accession to the wto, the russian federation has committed to reduce or phase out export duties for a list of raw materials. these export duty rate commitments were included in the list of concessions and commitments on goods of the russian federation. the russian federation is a major supplier of arms to the russian federation. under the bilateral agreement, the russian federation undertakes to make efforts not to introduce or increase export duties on raw materials listed in the agreement. if the russian federation envisages the application of export duties on these products, it shall consult the european commission at least two months in advance 'in order to find a solution which takes account of the interests of both parties'.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament’s recommendation to reject acta, because i believe it is not a suitable tool for the european union in responding to the tasks for which it was called. despite the central need to protect our market and our customers from counterfeit goods from outside the union accessing the market, the need to defend the intellectual property rights regime, also in the digital environment, and the fundamental need for a global approach on this matter, acta unfortunately raised more perplexities than guarantees. the european union will have to find better instruments to address the surely basic issues touched upon by the agreement. not only did the european data protection supervisor publish a very negative opinion on the agreement but also, and more importantly, the opinions expressed by four parliamentary committees (itre, deve, libe, juri), state their evident concerns about acta. finally, i strongly believe that the unprecedented public campaign against the agreement, which ended up in a petition containing more than 2.4 million signatures, cannot be left unheard by the democratically elected body of the european union. the european parliament represents the interests of the citizens of europe.
in writing. - the only acceptable response we can give to the concerns of the citizens is to reject the agreement. the agreement raises many concerns about the effects of its implementation, most of which concern how acta could lead to internet censorship, violation of the rights guaranteeing privacy of personal data and freedom of expression. as long as there is even the slightest suspicion that acta could open the way to violations of fundamental civil rights, the agreement must be stopped and reconsidered.
in writing. − better protection of the intellectual property rights of european producers involved in world trade is of paramount importance. by eliminating counterfeiting in the commercial domain and online piracy we can help to increase economic activity. at the same time, the risks to the health of citizens, for example from the consumption of counterfeit medicines, are reduced. the way in which copyright protection is envisaged, however, through acta raises some questions, all the more so as the negotiations of the agreement in question have been conducted in a too opaque manner. the benefits of the text appear to be far outweighed by the possible dangers to civil liberties. the vagueness of certain aspects of the agreement and the uncertainty of its interpretation, which may lead to abuse by the authorities, should give us pause for thought. in these circumstances, as representatives of european citizens, we can no longer guarantee adequate protection of fundamental rights under acta and many of the terms of the agreement need to be clarified. the acta text can therefore be voted on by parliament once the uncertainties relating to the scope and protection of individual freedoms have been resolved in order to avoid undesirable interpretations.
in writing. - i voted in favour of postponing the vote on the acta treaty, considering that a rational and careful debate on this subject and the view of the european court of justice would have been useful. given that the request to postpone the vote was rejected by the plenary, i voted against the agreement, due to the particularly high number of views against it that i have received over the past months from romanian citizens and from other eu states. i don't think that acta is a bad treaty. i don't think it's a good deal either but i think we have to be concerned about the fears expressed by citizens about the possible infringement of their rights and freedoms.
in writing. i abstained from voting on acta because i think that the court of justice of the european union should first of all have ruled on the legality of this agreement.
in writing. − acta has rightly been the subject of a lengthy debate here in the european parliament. it is our duty, as the single directly elected european institution, to ensure that fundamental rights such as the right to privacy and the right to freedom of expression are safeguarded. in the course of our discussions we came to the conclusion that the concerns about acta, expressed in a series of protests and campaigns across the globe, were entirely justified. this is why my group voted to reject the agreement. we must find an alternative way to address the challenges of digital piracy and counterfeit products which does not infringe the fundamental rights of the individual and which follows an open, transparent public debate.
in writing. − i voted against the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement between the european union and its member states, australia, canada, japan, the republic of korea, the united mexican states, the kingdom of morocco, new zealand, the republic of singapore, the swiss confederation and the united states of america (acta). the eu is firmly committed to the fight against counterfeiting and has one of the most modern legislation, fully in line with specific international agreements, in the field of intellectual property and copyright protection in the information society. however, the acta text contains provisions that may lead to interpretations that may lead to the infringement of fundamental rights of european citizens. that is why we cannot vote in favour of the current form of the acta agreement. the rejection of acta does not weaken the eu's commitment to protecting intellectual property or to fighting counterfeiting. the european parliament's rejection of acta underlines that any future international anti-counterfeiting agreement signed by the eu must guarantee respect for the fundamental rights of european citizens. we hope that if the commission proposes in the future a new text for such an agreement, the european parliament will be consulted before the agreement is signed and that the final text will also include the amendments proposed by the european parliament.
in writing. − the main purpose of the proposal is to set net ceilings for direct payments for calendar year 2013, providing for a modulation-like adjustment mechanism so as to ensure continuity in payment levels, while taking into account the gradual introduction of direct payments in the new member states and the phasing out of voluntary modulation. i welcome the commission's decision not to make adjustments for bulgaria and romania, as it is known that the process of phasing in direct payments in these member states is not yet complete.
in writing. − parliament must therefore also strive to be on an equal footing when it comes to delegated and implementing acts. both the european parliament and the council should be able to object to such proposals.
in writing. − the continuing reform of the cap has better connected agriculture and the european market, while providing producers with welcome support. however, this reform process has generated certain requirements for a better distribution of support between member states and within regions, as well as for a better orientation towards environmental issues and high market volatility. farmers' incomes are projected to remain under pressure, with rising production costs, slower productivity growth and a significant decline in profits. given that a strong agriculture is vital for food security and the economy of the european union, i believe it is absolutely necessary to provide substantial income support and to strengthen existing instruments for better management in the event of a crisis.
in writing. − as i announced yesterday in parliament's plenary, the proposal for a regulation provides the legal framework needed at this time, and the proposed regulations for bulgaria and romania are correct. we will soon be discussing the reports of the committee on agriculture and each subject will be touched upon at the appropriate time. but i would like to stress that it will be important to reflect together on how we can build a fair direct payments system, for example how we will make sure that romania and bulgaria - which are still in the process of phasing in direct payments - can do so as early as 2014.
in writing. − i voted for the capoulas report on the regulation on direct payments after 2013. the regulation aims to set net ceilings for direct payments for calendar year 2013 by providing for an adjustment mechanism similar to modulation of the no adjustments are foreseen for bulgaria and romania, as the process of phasing in direct payments has not yet been completed in those member states. unfortunately, the transition process on direct payments in romania will end in 2016, which automatically implies that our country will have direct payments below the european average after the common agricultural policy reform. i hope that it will be possible to bring forward the date by which romania and bulgaria will reach 100% of direct payments, so that we can ensure a fairer allocation of these between the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament 's resolution of 4 july 2012 on the mandate for the trilogue on the 2013 draft budget . i voted against amendments nos 3 and 19 which did not support the increases in the eu budget for 2013 proposed by the commission, which amount to eur 150 931.7 million in commitment appropriations (ca) (i.e. +2% compared to the 2012 budget) and eur 137 924.4 million in payment appropriations (pc) (i.e. +6.8% compared to the 2012 budget). these increases represent 1,13% and 1,03%, respectively, of the estimated 2013 value of the eu's gross national income, and the multiannual financial framework (mff) provides for a ceiling of eur 152 502 million for ca and a ceiling of eur 143 911 million for cp, at current prices. i voted to include the eur 50 million payment appropriations for the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) in view of the effects of the crisis during this period and to avoid transfers from other budget lines serving other objectives. i voted for the provision of adequate staff for the iter joint undertaking and for the development of fusion energy, to ensure the careful management and good use of europe's contribution to the iter project.
in writing. − the animal welfare and protection strategy 2012-2015 is welcomed and provides for a two-pronged approach: a proposal for comprehensive animal welfare legislation and a strengthening of current actions. i believe that the proposed legislation should promote an innovative approach, focusing on concrete results on animal welfare, as well as education and training for all stakeholders. for better communication of information, i believe that a coordinated european network of animal welfare centres could be a real success.
in writing. − i believe that eu member states must ensure that breaches of eu animal welfare rules are subject to effective and proportionate sanctions and that each sanction is accompanied by extensive information and guidance from the competent authorities and appropriate corrective measures.
in writing. − action to ensure the protection and welfare of animals at eu level is essential, as the removal of natural habitats for the development of urban areas, as well as the production of animal-based food and the globalisation of trade in it, have increased exponentially in recent years, causing considerable damage to the fauna of the member states. the situation of animals used in laboratory experiments, which were not covered by the report and which deserve attention, is also a cause for concern. i also believe that in future the situation of endangered wild animals, as well as those in nature reserves and in captivity, which require urgent measures to be taken to preserve the animal population in the community, must be examined in detail at community level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the european union strategy for the protection and welfare of animals. the commission and the member states should ensure that the horizon 2020 research programme provides for appropriate research opportunities in the field of biodiversity conservation, wildlife trade, development and validation of non-animal alternatives and the impact of emerging technologies. calls on the member states to make more effective use of the support opportunities offered by the eu rural development funds and the seventh framework programme (2007-2013) to promote applied research and invest in innovative and modern solutions for animal welfare. i also call on the member states and the commission to make more financial investment in research and development of new techniques and technologies in the field of animal welfare. i regret that the strategy does not reflect the importance of animal health for animal welfare and the link between animal health and public health. we call on the commission to apply the 'one health' principle to this strategy and to ensure effective coordination with the animal health strategy, as appropriate animal husbandry contributes, among other factors, to preventing the spread of diseases and antibiotic resistance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i am a great animal lover and i believe that a legal framework at union level would contribute to better protection of pets and stray animals. as a member of the peti committee, i am aware of the concerns of european citizens about the poor treatment to which these animals are sometimes subjected in the european union. in most cases, there is adequate legislation at national level, but local authorities, which have the main responsibilities for managing these issues, face difficulties in implementing it, including due to a lack of the necessary resources. i therefore believe that a european legal framework would not only bring about harmonisation of measures and practices at member state level, but should also be a way of supporting the efforts of the authorities responsible at regional and local level.
in writing. − i supported this resolution tabled by the committee on petitions. it reflects the concerns raised by many citizens and repeats the calls for action we made in our written declaration on this subject last year. i am disappointed that the european commission has not responded more positively to our written declaration, to which a large majority of members of this house gave their support. the commission must consider what options are available at eu level and determine which measures would best enable us to improve the situation regarding stray animals. the animal welfare and public health issues that arise from the problem of strays are common to several member states, and eu action is both appropriate and necessary.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the creation of an eu legal framework for the protection of pet animals and stray animals. there is currently no eu legislation on the protection of pets and stray animals, despite the estimated number of pets in the eu of over 100 million. some pets and stray animals are victims of attacks in many member states, and the signatories of the petitions mainly refer to member states in southern and eastern europe. it calls on the european union and the member states to ratify the european convention for the protection of pet animals and to transpose its provisions into national legal systems. we call on the commission to come forward with proposals for an eu legal framework for the protection of pet animals and stray animals, including: rules for the identification and registration of animals; strategies for the management of stray animals, including vaccination and sterilisation programmes; measures to promote owners' responsibility; a ban on unauthorised breeders and shelters; a ban on the killing of stray animals without any medical indication; information and education programmes in schools on animal welfare; sanctions for any member state that does not comply with the rules.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because the european council of 28-29 june took very important decisions to counter the euro area crisis, fiscal consolidation and stimulating economic growth, as well as for the governance of the internal market. unfortunately, romania lost the opportunity to have a strong position and a say when these issues were discussed, which are essential for the future of the whole union. prime minister ponta decided unilaterally to participate in the european council without a mandate from the president of the country. he thus disobeyed the constitutional court's decision of 27 june. according to this, in the exercise of constitutional powers, the president of romania participates in the meetings of the european council as head of state. the president of romania may expressly delegate this task to the prime minister. this didn't happen last week. prime minister ponta has prevented the president of romania from participating in the european council, thus violating his constitutional prerogatives. through his action and other attacks against state institutions, he risks pushing romania into an unprecedented political and legal crisis.
in writing. − the agreement on the pact for growth and jobs is very important, in particular the decision to mobilise €120 billion to boost investment, growth and employment and the call for differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation that takes due account of the role of investment. it represents a step towards a necessary revitalisation of public and private investment, geared towards sustainable economic growth in europe, aiming in particular at achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i voted in favour of the measures needed to ensure financial stability, in particular in the euro area, and to minimise the cost to european citizens of banks failing to meet their obligations; to ensure a viable process of fiscal policy-making at national and european level; to ensure that there are national and european policies that promote sustainable economic growth, employment and competitiveness and are compatible with the smooth functioning of emu; to ensure the democratic legitimacy and accountability of decision-making in emu, based on the exercise of community sovereignty in common policies and solidarity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the joint motion for a resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 28 and 29 june 2012 because i positively welcome the measures agreed upon by the council to solve the eurozone crisis. these measures are not only based on fiscal consolidation, but they also take into account the urgent need for economic growth. sure enough, the decision should have called for further work on the development of a roadmap for genuine economic and monetary union, with parliament fully involved as an equal partner in this task beyond its role as co-legislator and where the community method would prevail as the general law-making approach, even on decisions concerning fiscal policy. i particularly welcome the compact for growth and jobs, in particular the agreement to mobilise eur 120 billion to stimulate investment, growth and jobs, which is an important step towards the re-launch of the economic recovery of europe, keeping in mind the citizens’ needs and going beyond the ‘quasi-dogmatic’ approach of economic austerity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament's resolution on the european council meeting of june 2012. we welcome the recognition by the european council of the need to adopt measures aimed at economic growth. we underline the importance of the agreement reached by the euro area leaders on important and substantive measures to break the vicious circle between banks and sovereign debt and to reduce the interest rate differentials between euro area countries. we also welcome the pact for growth and jobs - in particular the decision to mobilise eur 120 billion to boost investment, growth and employment and the call for differentiated, growth-friendly fiscal consolidation that takes due account of the role of investment. this pact is a step towards a much-needed revitalisation of public and private investment in sustainable economic growth in europe, aimed in particular at achieving the europe 2020 objectives, in particular those of resource efficiency and sustainability, and the completion of the internal market. given that the eu budget should become an instrument for economic growth, we call on the commission and the member states to make tangible progress towards an agreement on the future mff for 2014-2020.
in writing. − access to a bank account has now become a precondition for full participation in economic and social life for every european citizen, and the use of cash is rapidly declining. today, lack of access to a basic bank account makes everyday life more difficult and expensive. thus, paying utility bills or collecting income can become a problem. i'm not talking about e-commerce that's becoming inaccessible. in view of the above, i strongly support the right of any european citizen, regardless of his or her financial situation, to open and use a basic payment account, including in a member state other than that in which he or she is habitually resident.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on recommendations to the commission on access to basic banking services. i voted for a basic payment account to be effective, easy to open and to provide a specific range of basic services. i voted for the existence of effective measures for effective supervision and dispute resolution, and for facilitating access to such an account for consumers without a fixed address. i believe that anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing legislation should be applied proportionately and should never be used as an unjustified pretext to reject less commercially attractive consumers. the commission should also examine the need for a link between consumers and the member state in order for them to be eligible for a basic payment account. we call on the commission to present a detailed analysis of the situation in all member states by september 2012 and to submit a proposal for a directive to the commission by january 2013 on the basis of article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on ensuring access to basic payment services for all consumers legally resident in the union.
mr president, i am glad that growth, one of the core concepts we have always defended, has reached the frontline of the debate. nevertheless, we must bear in mind that growth is created by markets – not by institutions or legislators – so, if we want growth, we should support the market. if we want to speed up the development of infrastructure in order to complete the internal market and boost competitiveness, we must use our shrunk budgets to attract private finance dedicated to long-term investments. the new mechanisms, like the connecting europe facility, should primarily rely on these financial instruments to develop energy and telecom infrastructure in a stable and transparent framework which will not distort markets and which will attract private investors, rather than crowding them out by creating an uneven competition between public and private money. yes, we need project bonds to work and, yes, we need them to be assessed and improved after their pilot phase. what we also need is for our institutions to support the real stakeholders: banks and institutional investors. we need to develop this new asset class which should bypass current uncertainty and debt driven constraints and that will help to complete and expand markets. being part of the solution requires leverage for each euro spent by the public sector. for this, the time is gone when we could rely on grants alone.
the pilot phase of the europe 2020 project bond initiative should be launched to prepare the connecting europe facility as we want it to be as soon as possible. the pilot phase should be financed in 2012 and 2013 through budgetary reallocations from the current transport, energy and telecommunications programmes. thus, up to eur 200 million from the ten-t budget, up to eur 20 million from the budget of the competitiveness and innovation framework programme and up to eur 10 million from the ten-e budget could be reallocated to this initiative. the european investment bank should request budgetary funds on the basis of a list of projects which the bank considers appropriate and feasible to implement. however, it is important that member states submit these applications by 31 december 2013 and, only in the case of very complex infrastructure projects, by 31 december 2014. so now is the time to prepare for a good absorption in the future multiannual financial framework.
there is now an urgent need to boost investment in transport, energy and information and communication technology infrastructure. i believe that the europe 2020 project bond initiative will mobilise more substantial private sector resources. this must be done as soon as possible to help revive the european economy. the pilot phase is useful because it will familiarize investors with the structure and functioning of the bonds. it will also provide an opportunity to evaluate the instrument before it is implemented. the contribution from the union and the eib will make bonds safer, reducing the risks for investors. in recent years, the eib has provided my country with over 3.8 billion euros in support of infrastructure projects.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, we have heard again and again from the council, from the member states, but also from you, commissioner, that the implementation of the schengen agreement has been very good, almost perfect. allow me please to at least partially disagree. it is true that for several years no one has challenged how member states implement the schengen rules. border controls have been reintroduced for limited periods of time, but no one complained. however, in the last 18 months there have been way too many attempts to apply schengen rules in a much more personalised and dangerous manner. the joy of the arab spring was over-shadowed by italy’s reaction and france’s decision to reintroduce border control. denmark considered that its domestic political problems could be solved by reintroducing border control as an alleged way of combating trans-border crime. for more than one year – one year – the netherlands has had an initiative which was considered by a dutch court as having the same effects as border controls. for several months another attempt to curtail free movement has taken place in germany, where on a systematic basis more than 55% of czech buses are checked. i cannot help wondering how long the commission will keep pretending that things are ok within the schengen governance. they are not. this is why the commission in fact came up with a legislative package to improve it. if the commission continues with only half-measures, never daring to start infringement procedures, i am afraid we will wake up one morning realising that free movement no longer exists. i am addressing you, commissioner, because i have full confidence in your commitment to the defence of free movement. i am not addressing the council at this stage, waiting for a better time to enlighten the member states and make them understand what the real interests of european citizens are.
the recent debates on the schengen agreement have focused too much on the interinstitutional war between the council and parliament and too little on the real substance of the problem. that is why i think this debate is a good opportunity to return to the arguments justifying a thorough reform of the schengen area. unfortunately, i have to say that there are important problems in the current schengen system, mainly because of a general tendency to re-nationalize the schengen area. this trend has been manifested in recent years by the already well-known cases of abusive reintroduction of internal border controls. but what is less well known and less publicised are the hidden internal border controls, which are present in no less than 11 member states, as the commission pointed out in its biannual report in may, and as confirmed by the commissioner responsible for the schengen area and by my colleague mr coelho here. the refusal to admit romania and bulgaria is another example of the misinterpretation of the schengen rules. i hope that the admission of romania and bulgaria this autumn will be the first step towards normalising the situation with regard to compliance with these rules. in romania, right now, the national parliament and the ponta government are making efforts to introduce the rule of law and eliminate the presidential dictatorship that has been imposed in recent years. romania is thus on the way to a return to normalcy after a long period of abuses and breaches of democracy, which will ensure that the administrative and judicial problems that have delayed romania's admission to the schengen area will disappear and never be repeated. the european union urgently needs to reform schengen governance, involve the european parliament and the commission must take on the role of an impartial arbiter, both in assessing the application of the schengen acquis and in taking measures to remedy any problems that may arise.
the council decision of 8 june to change the legal basis of the schengen evaluation regulation may have adverse consequences for the functioning of the schengen area. if we really want to have a higher degree of transparency and democratic and judicial accountability in the way the schengen rules are implemented and applied by the member states, then we must go back to the basic treaty and restart the discussion with the european parliament. moreover, it is hard to accept that member states with weaknesses at their external borders refuse a coordinated assessment of the schengen mechanism and at the same time block access to the schengen area to countries which, as a result of their efforts, have managed to achieve a very high level of security at their external borders. by refusing to co-decide on the schengen file, the council intends to maintain a schengen evaluation system which has proved to be currently ineffective in identifying non-compliance with the schengen rules. this means that the union prefers to tolerate situations of illegal checks at internal borders or irregularities at external borders. some member states consider that the introduction of internal borders will help to ensure the safety of citizens and to control migration flows. unfortunately, it is a false lead. the union should focus on strengthening schengen governance and harmonising the level of security at the external borders of all member states. the european parliament wants to avoid a reduction in the existing standards on external borders laid down in european legislation. a review of the current schengen rules, leading to a standardisation of the external borders, is needed and this must also be legislated by the european parliament as co-legislator.
i welcome this debate and consider it useful for two reasons: because it is a debate on the institutional relations between the three european institutions and because it is the first time that the council has allowed itself to ignore one of the institutions which has the necessary legitimacy to respond to the aspirations and checks of european citizens. the council must understand that the parliament is the only european institution with increased democratic legitimacy. we are elected here by popular vote and represent the interests of the european citizens. the interest of european citizens is more cohesion, more cohesion means more space and more freedom of movement. i do not think that if we have governments that are incapable of providing adequate solutions to the crisis and resort to populist measures, we should go back to feudalism, which, even in the feudal period, was not typical of europe, because freedom of movement is a given, it was not built by the european union. the european citizen has understood very clearly that this is what unites him culturally and civilisationally.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, it is a difficult discussion. i hope that nobody really questions the intentions of the cyprus presidency. the council firmly believes that the new arrangements for schengen governance, which are already in place, provide a solid basis for ensuring greater oversight of developments in the schengen area, including by the european parliament. please allow me in this intervention to limit myself to the issue at hand and not comment on external borders, although we all know that the two questions are interlinked. the council very much wants the parliament to be involved in the ongoing process on the legislative aspects of the new schengen governance arrangements. that includes not only the proposal for amending the schengen borders code, which remains – as many of you very rightly mentioned – subject to the ordinary legislative procedure (codecision) but also the schengen evaluation mechanism proposal. and in saying this i really weigh my words. my plea to all of you is that we at least agree now to define, confine and circumscribe the disagreement that indeed exists between the european parliament and the council to one question, and that is the question of evaluation. the honourable rapporteur, mr coelho, will allow me to say and to insist that there is also a fundamentally legal question and, please do not get me wrong, i am not doing away with the political sensitivities and political aspects of this. but when it comes to evaluation there is an issue on whether, under the treaty, evaluation remains a peer review or whether it is a competence which has been transferred to the community level. and somewhere there is agreement there. we should not have a very passionate debate on this – let us talk and let us find a way forward! but please do not consider that it is about lowering existing standards and guarantees. the council is already publicly committed to ensuring that the view of the european parliament will, to the fullest extent possible, be taken into consideration in all its aspects before the adoption of the final text. we have, of course, also taken very good note of all the comments and, i assure you, all the criticisms you addressed to the council and be assured that we do not take it badly and we will convey the ‘heat’ we received to the council and to the member states. based on this, we will try our utmost to find a satisfactory way forward and we hope that we can come to a mutually satisfactory understanding as to how that can be given a practical expression, thus enabling work on these proposals to be brought to a successful conclusion in the very near future. let me conclude by saying that we remain as committed as all of you to preserving and strengthening the free movement of persons, as one of the most tangible and successful achievements of european integration. we firmly believe in a european union as a space of freedom, including the fundamental issue of freedom of movement, to which schengen makes an outstanding contribution. of course we will fully respect the treaty and the framework of the treaty, but we of course stand ready to discuss, and see what improvements we can bring.
member of the commission. − mr president, as part of strengthening the schengen governance, the commission also proposed that we would have regular discussions on the state of play – the health check – of schengen. this would be an opportunity to discuss among ministers the shortcomings and challenges of schengen on a regular basis. it would take place twice a year based on a report issued by the commission. the first debate took place last june, and i immediately sent the report to the european parliament as well, and i am of course willing to discuss with you how we can involve the european parliament even more in those discussions. in that report we identified 11 cases that we had been investigating for the last six months. some of them could very well lead to infringement proceedings but, as i tried to explain on the two cases that you brought up in your oral questions, it is sometimes very difficult to get information and that is why we are now working very hard with germany and the czech republic, including with the czech bus companies, to see if we can get more information, so they have enough evidence to really bring the issue forward. moreover, we are also issuing guidelines to the member states, the first concerning travel documents, because of the background of the discussion between france and italy on the travel documents of tunisians, and we are also in regular contact with the member states to see if there are other issues where we would need guidelines. so, ms weber, everything is not shiny and rosy in schengen. there are problems, and it is because of this that we proposed a strengthening of the evaluation mechanism, so that we would have the possibility of identifying possible shortcomings very early on and working with the member countries, using all the tools that we have at our disposal to hopefully remedy the shortcomings at our borders. mr president-in-office, that is why we proposed to move from a peer-to-peer-based review to a commission-led review. it is not because the commission needs more powers per se, it is because we need an independent european-based system so that we can make sure that we have a compulsory action plan by the relevant member states and that we can also avoid possible domestic pressures – populism, etc. – which could lead to a reinstallation of internal borders that is not in line with the acquis. that would imply a change of the legal base, also involving the european parliament. we maintain that view from the commission side. schengen is a european achievement, and that is why we need a european-based governance of schengen. i hope that after the well-deserved summer break for everybody, we can sit together and see whether there is a way to find a good solution that all institutions can approve.
in writing. for european citizens, freedom of movement is one of the main tangible benefits of european integration. at the same time, it consolidates the construction of a single area of freedom, security and justice. any decision to restrict this right must be well justified, carefully considered and strictly limited in time and exceptional in nature. clear criteria and conditions of application are needed for situations where internal border controls may be carried out, and parliament has the right to be closely involved in their development and monitoring. the unjustified delay in romania's accession to schengen already creates de facto discrimination for millions of european citizens. if, in addition, internal border controls are abused, one of the foundations of the european construction will be threatened. i call on all european leaders not to give in to populist temptations and to defend freedom of movement. i also ask the commission to monitor closely the member states' compliance with the schengen acquis and to take prompt action in the event of any abuse. last but not least, i ask that a clear decision be taken in september with a precise timetable for romania's accession to schengen.
in writing. the creation of the schengen area is an important part of the process of consolidating and strengthening the european union. this area has brought benefits to all member states, both economically, which have free movement of goods across internal borders, and to european citizens, who can travel freely without being checked every time they cross an internal border. thanks to the actions of opportunistic politicians, driven by their desire to attract populist votes, the schengen system has been repeatedly attacked, by using it as a sort of scapegoat for increasing electoral capital. the same can be seen in the case of bulgaria and romania where, although they have met all the necessary criteria to enter the schengen area, the final decision is still pending.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, i would like to thank you for inviting me to speak at the opening of this debate on behalf of the high representative, vice-president ashton. this house, in its resolution of 17 november last year, gave strong support to georgia’s territorial integrity and to the process of political association and economic integration with the european union. it also recognised the importance of the geneva process and gave its backing to the work of the european union’s special representative for the south caucasus and to the eu monitoring mission. these were important signals of commitment to georgia and to the region. members of this house have also been in the vanguard of supporting the deepening of human rights and democracy in georgia. at the euronest parliamentary assembly held in baku in april a resolution was passed underlining the indispensable role of independent civil society in strengthening democracy and stressing the importance in this context of freedom of association, freedom of assembly and freedom of expression, including in the press and the media. in addition, i am aware that a number of honourable members have submitted parliamentary questions concerning the treatment of the political opposition, respect for human rights, labour relations and other related issues. these issues are all extremely relevant as the eu looks at georgia preparing for elections in the autumn, and as we support georgia’s reform drive built on the basis of consensus. president van rompuy is in georgia today. his visit is an opportunity to demonstrate the top-level commitment of the european union to the deepening of our relations with georgia and to the peaceful development of the south caucasus region as a whole. i will not anticipate president van rompuy’s messages to georgia here, but i would like to signal before the debate is open a number of critical issues for us at this time. we are making good progress with our association agreement and with deep and comprehensive free trade area negotiations. we will also soon begin concrete work on a visa liberalisation action plan preparing for mobility and stronger people-to-people contacts. all this is very positive news, but it is essential that georgia makes every effort already to live within the spirit of association. we will provide georgia with every possible support in meeting this objective, bearing in mind its great potential to benefit from the ‘more for more’ principle enshrined in the european neighbourhood policy. in this context, president barroso and commissioner füle as well as, obviously, high representative/vice-president ashton, have emphasised to president saakashvili in their recent meetings in brussels the need to ensure fair political competition and the legitimacy of elections. parliamentary elections in october must meet international democratic standards. public trust in the election process will be crucial. pluralistic elections require a strong, credible and serious opposition that takes part in the election process in a way that respects the constitution and the law. we have noted with concern the perception that the government is trying to hinder the participation of opposition leader ivanishvili, that resources are being deployed against him and that laws on party finance and vote-buying are being applied in a one-sided way. we must insist that the laws are correctly and transparently applied to leave no possible doubt that due process has been followed. on the other hand, there is also a perception that mr ivanishvili is using his unequalled financial assets for electoral gain and this is a legitimate concern. again we must insist that there is a level playing field for democratic competition and that votes cannot be bought. we have focused in particular on equal access to media outlets. it is well established that the two main pro-government channels have enjoyed wider penetration than more critical channels, so we are encouraged by the recent decision by parliament to enforce the so-called ‘must-carry/must-offer’ rules in the pre-election period and by the president’s strong statements on this issue, though we will wish to discuss further the enforcement of these rules. finally, i should of course underline that the eu remains committed to conflict resolution efforts in georgia through strong support to georgia’s territorial integrity, through our contribution to security and stability by the deployment of the eu monitoring mission, and through our leading role as co-chairs in the geneva international discussions. the conflict over abkhazia and south ossetia remains high on our agenda and we will continue to spare no effort to help find solutions. this commitment was strongly reflected in the council conclusions of 27 february 2012. i very much look forward to hearing the views of honourable members on this very important issue.
on behalf of the alde group. on behalf of the alde group, i want to say that we support and have always supported a democratic georgia, a prosperous georgia, a georgia that, together with us, will achieve european standards. i don't think today's debate is a debate between left and right, between opposition and power. when you are in power you must not let yourself be worried about the situation of the opposition - and i find that president saakashvili is more than worried about the fact that he is for the first time in georgia facing a united opposition, a strong opposition. sure, i've heard numerous allegations from one side or the other. i do not know how many of these allegations are proved, but i would like to make it clear on behalf of my group that democracy does not mean a war with satellite dishes, democracy does not mean a war with the mass media. it is very good that there are many television stations with different views, because, as we know very well, not only in the eastern european area but also in that area, this temptation to monopolize absolute truth is a very dangerous one, which can lead to democratic slides. i think the argument that the opposition is currently led by a very wealthy person is not an argument that honors a democratic approach to the rule of law. rich or poor in itself is not, my dear colleagues, a virtue. they cannot in themselves constitute a situation of doubt as to the integrity of those in such situations. i think we should expect from georgia a debate of ideas, a debate of programmes, a debate of visions - and not a collateral debate, triggered by the moods of one side or the other. i think, as commissioner füle pointed out, this tension that's in the air with regard to georgia can be very dangerous in the long run. and the government that is currently in power through the ruling party must ensure that these elections are held in full accordance with european standards, with democratic standards, because only in this way can georgia guarantee a free future.
the situation in syria is deteriorating, despite international efforts to find a negotiated solution acceptable to the parties to the conflict. tensions are likely to escalate further after the downing of the turkish military plane by syrian air defenses. innocent people die every day, victims of a real civil war, of unimaginable massacres, which have nothing to do with the syrians' desire to live in democracy and freedom. providing arms to the parties makes things more dangerous. i cannot help but notice the persecution of members of the christian community, which brings the conflict to a grotesque dimension. unfortunately, the position of russia and china remains adamant, they do not accept anything resembling a political regime change and share what has been said here, the idea that our responsibility to protect the victims is essential. i appreciate the principled and firm position of the european union, which is acting consistently to find peaceful solutions. every effort must be made to negotiate directly between the government and the opposition on the basis of a cessation of hostilities.
mr president, at rio+20 the world leaders focused on sustainable development. they recognised that we are confronting not only an economic crisis but also an environmental crisis. they also recognised that we need bolder action to stop the destruction of the environment. if we really want green growth, if we really want a green economy, then we have to pay much more attention to what economics teaches us. people respond to incentives. therefore, people who pollute and firms who pollute should pay the right price for destroying the environment. we in the european institutions should support technical innovation for a green economy; we should support action to preserve nature; and we should support taxes on energy based on carbon. we should also support the improvement of our accounting systems to reflect the impact of our way of life on the environment.
in writing. − the current structure and the rules of procedure of the full court of justice of the european union are the result of the changes introduced by the treaty of nice. the president of the court and the presidents of chambers of five judges are currently very busy. in response to these charges, the court amended its rules of procedure to allow, in cases concerning intellectual property, the abolition of the oral procedure and clarification of the status of interveners, so as to allow for a more rapid treatment. in those circumstances, i consider that an increase in the number of judges of the general court is necessary in order to make the court's work more efficient.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament legislative resolution on the draft regulation amending the protocol on the statute of the court of justice because, given the evident increase in the workload of the court in the last years, a revision of the rules concerning its activities and the composition of the court was fundamental. the document, containing proposals relating to the court of justice and to the general court, aims at strengthening the working capacity of the ecj, in line with the guidelines suggested by the european commission. the suggested reform, by amending articles 16 and 17 of the statute, wants to increase the participation of the judges in cases assigned to the grand chamber, allowing them to sit far more frequently than at present, thereby easing the activities of the president of the court and the presidents of the chambers of five judges, redistributing the workload in a more balanced way. i positively welcome this text amending the protocol on the court of justice because it responds to the urgent need for a necessary rationalisation of certain specific aspects of the working rules of the ecj, a crucial component of the european union institutional architecture.
in writing. − i support the proposal for broader participation of judges assigned in cases in the grand chamber. this would ensure that case law is consistent, as currently the court of justice judges have a very heavy workload while other judges sit in relatively few cases. i also support the establishment of a vice-president to assist the president in carrying out his ever increasing duties. as for the general court, the number of cases disposed of has been lower than the number of cases brought before the court for several years. despite the court’s substantial efforts and increased productivity, it cannot keep up with the resource-intensive job. the increase in workload comes from a variety of reasons, including the increase of litigation following 2004 and 2007 accessions, european integration, and the devolution of jurisdiction. the court has made several efforts to deal with cases more expeditiously but believes a structural solution is urgently required, such as increasing the number of judges. this must be done to increase the effectiveness, urgency and flexibility of the court. not only is effective judicial protection vital, but inefficient justice might be even more costly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft regulation amending the protocol on the statute of the court of justice of the european union and annex i thereto. the court of justice of the eu has proposed several amendments to its statute, as well as the adoption of a regulation on the temporary judges of the civil service tribunal, which, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, need to be adopted, for the first time, by the european parliament and the council, acting in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure. the proposed amendments affect the three courts currently constituting the court of justice of the eu differently and are necessary due to the increased workload of these courts. the proposed changes for the court of justice concern the increase of the quorum for deliberations in the grand chamber and the plenary, the creation of the office of vice-president and the definition of his duties. as regards the general court, in order to cope with the increase in its workload and the time taken to deal with cases, it is proposed to increase the number of judges to 39. as regards the civil service tribunal, the court requests that three temporary judges be assigned to it, to be able to call upon when a judge is unable to perform his duties for a long period.
in writing. − i support the regulation of the european parliament and the council to allow temporary judges to be appointed to the eu civil service tribunal. since the tribunal consists of just seven judges, its work can be severely affected if one member is unable to perform his or her duties. it is crucial that the tribunal carry out its judicial functions. the temporary judges would only be able to perform strictly judicial duties and would not participate in administration or elections. they would be selected according to capability and flexibility to immediately perform the duties of the tribunal. thus i find this proposal a realistic solution to ensure the tribunal’s work does not get disrupted or adversely affected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a european parliament legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending the decision establishing a competitiveness and innovation framework programme (2007-2013) and laying down general rules for the granting of community financial aid in the field of the trans-european transport and energy networks, because i believe it may become an important tool in the achievement of the economic relaunch of the union. as unanimously agreed upon, investments in infrastructure will have to play a crucial role in this sense, not only as a means for growth and for the completion of the single market in transport and energy, but also as a necessary precondition for the convergence of the european regions. however, it is also evident that the eu budget alone cannot sufficiently tackle this challenge. one of the key actors in this field being the involvement of the private sector, i believe that the launch of a phase testing the financial markets’ reactions and the functioning and optimisation of project bonds can constitute an important tool to attract private investments, triggering a virtuous circle for the european economy as a whole.
in writing. − there are certain key areas of activity at the moment, as investment in development projects in these sectors will certainly lead to the relaunch of the community economy in the long term. i have noted, however, that the allocation of budgetary funds to the three critical areas (transport, energy and information technology) is disproportionate, in that the financial resources for the trans-european energy and information networks in the 2012-13 pilot phase will be limited to eur 10 billion and eur 20 billion respectively, compared to the amount of eur 230 billion allocated to the trans-european transport networks. the energy infrastructure sector, in particular the clean and resource-efficient energy sectors, is a top priority for the eu's policy on sustainable economic growth and therefore deserves a much larger share of the available funds, at least half of which is allocated to transport. an argument such as the obstacles to the authorization of these energy projects is unacceptable and our efforts must be directed towards reducing the bureaucratic procedures that impede economic development, and not towards reducing the allocation of funds for these reasons.
in writing. − the trans-european transport network plays a strategic role in economic, social and territorial cohesion, while ensuring the free movement of passengers and goods within the european union. however, europe is facing increasing investment needs in transport infrastructure. in this context, i welcome the europe 2020 project finance bond initiative. i believe this is a key stage in attracting private sector funding for transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructure, which has a significant potential to contribute to job creation and growth. the pilot project will allow investors to familiarise themselves with the new financing structures and at the same time support a resource-efficient economy in line with the europe 2020 strategy. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that innovative financial instruments have a particularly important role to play in attracting additional private sector funding to key infrastructure.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's report on the proposal to amend decision no 1639/2006/ec establishing a framework programme for innovation and competitiveness (2007-2013) and regulation (ec) no 680/2007 laying down general rules for the granting of community financial assistance in the field of trans-european transport and energy networks. difficulties in accessing long-term private or public sector financing for infrastructure projects should not lead to a deterioration in the performance of transport, energy and telecommunications infrastructures, nor to a delay in the penetration of broadband networks. the commission should involve the eib in the implementation of the pilot phase due to the fact that the eib is the main financer of infrastructure projects and the eu financial body designated by the treaty. the eib should apply for budgetary funds on the basis of a list of projects judged by the eib and the commission to be appropriate, consistent with the union's long-term objectives and achievable. those requests and the related budgetary commitments should be made by 31 december 2013. for major infrastructure projects, the eib's actual approval should be possible at a later date, but no later than 31 december 2014.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament's report on draft amending budget no 3/2012 of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iii commission. in 2011, for the second year in a row, the budgetary authority reduced the level of payment appropriations in the union budget for 2012 by more than eur 3 billion compared to the commission's initial estimate, including in the areas of research and cohesion policy. it should be noted that the underspending (eur 0,73 billion) is not due to absorption difficulties or mismanagement but is the result of the rules in force on adjusting the distribution of payments according to needs. the european parliament regrets that, despite the provisions of article 310 (5) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union on sound financial management and the joint declaration on payment credits agreed by all three institutions in the 2012 budgetary procedure, the council initially decided to reduce by two thirds the amount of eur 485 million for the transfer request of dec 9/2012 from energy projects with a low execution level to supporting economic recovery by strengthening the three budget lines for fp7 - cooperation.
in writing. – i am deeply concerned about the politically motivated arrest of mr. andrzej poczobut, the polish-belarusian minority activist and journalist. this is not the first time that he has been imprisoned, for so-called libel against the president. the deteriorating human rights situation is reflected in the repression of the national polish minority, whose journalists are silenced, threatened, and intimidated—as well as the broader, long-standing pattern of judicial harassment against journalists, members of civil society, and human rights defenders in belarus. belarusian authorities have breached both national law and the un declaration on human rights defenders and other instruments that belarus has ratified. i urge belarus to end arbitrary detentions and travel bans, to allow freedom of the media and freedom of expression, to allow media, opposition members, and human rights defenders to do their work. i remind the belarusian authorities that political systems based on oppression and fear are not lasting. fear leads to hate and hate cannot be the basis of a solid political construction, but it is the seed of destruction. belarusian authorities, it is in your interest to stop oppression and fear.
european standardisation strengthens the competitiveness of the business environment when it is in line with the international standardisation system. standards are important tools for the competitiveness of enterprises, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, whose participation in the standardisation process is essential for technological progress. standardisation rules should encourage smes to actively contribute innovative technological solutions to standardisation efforts by enhancing their participation at national level, where they can be more effective due to lower costs and the absence of language barriers. granting smes effective membership of european standardisation organisations, including voting rights, will have a positive impact on the involvement and participation of smes in standardisation. the itre commission has called for different pricing systems and special tariffs, low-price standard packages, in particular for smes, micro-enterprises and craft enterprises.
i would like to point out that although the electronic identification of cattle can be an economic burden for small businesses, the importance of this process from the point of view of food safety should not be ignored. therefore, i believe that, regardless of whether fdi remains voluntary or becomes mandatory, member states should be obliged to facilitate the integration of this system among small farmers, to provide them with the necessary financial support either through state aid or through existing rural development programmes. i believe that if technological developments allow us to have greater control over the health status of animals, facilitate the improvement of databases and increase the capacity to react to disease outbreaks, we have a responsibility to do everything possible to ensure that member states adapt their legislation to the new technology. the use of this technology will improve the management of direct payments to farmers per head, through better control and with a reduced risk of payment errors. in addition, the quantity and transparency of information provided to consumers can be greatly improved if voluntary labelling of beef and poultry meat is maintained, so as to reduce the risk of counterfeit products being placed on the market.
in romania, one third of the population works in agriculture, most of them small producers. i would point out that we must take very seriously the effects of the new legislation on this category of farmers. for these producers, european policies are often impossible to implement or too bureaucratic. of course, we cannot compromise on food safety, but in the name of food safety, we must not take measures that affect the most vulnerable of food producers. as regards the compulsory electronic identification of bovine animals, the costs of this should not be borne by small farmers. i believe that, especially for them, electronic identification of animals should be optional. this category of farmers should be protected and supported, especially as they often produce the healthiest food with no impact on the environment.
i join my colleagues who have so far welcomed the commission's proposal to introduce electronic identification of bovine animals on a voluntary basis. this technology will bring undeniable benefits to those who wish to use it, in particular advantages in terms of traceability. the use of electronic identification should remain optional. member states should have the possibility to make it compulsory on their territory, without imposing too heavy a burden on small farmers. i am in favour of simplifying but not eliminating the optional labelling of beef. consumers must be able to make informed choices, but this system must be clear, simple and without too much red tape. that is why i shall vote in favour of the amendments which support the retention of this provision.
i would like to begin by thanking the reporters, ms. flautre and ms. ludford, for the good cooperation we have had during the negotiations. as the shadow rapporteur for the epp group on the afet, i had a small contribution to make to this report. i have sought to obtain an objective and balanced final document, highlighting the new elements that have emerged in the last five years, of course, if they have existed. at the same time, i have argued throughout the process that the report should not become an indictment against the member states, that parliament should not replace national or international investigative mechanisms and, above all, that it should not issue verdicts and guilty verdicts. to this end, i tabled amendments in both the afet and libe committees and i believe that they have contributed to a more balanced reflection of the situation in the member states, including romania. i appreciate that the final report refers to the parliamentary inquiry carried out in my country in 2008 and its conclusions, because this inquiry was missing from the original draft, which generates a distorted picture of reality. in addition, clarifications were needed with regard to new elements that had emerged in recent years. for example, it was important to point out that some information presented in the press was not confirmed by the investigation or by the authorities. therefore, i argued that any requests for new investigations should be based on solid evidence. i believe that the possible involvement of the union states in the transfer or illegal detention of prisoners by the cia must be clarified, but the presumption of innocence must be respected. the purpose of the trial remains to find the truth, not to find guilty parties at any cost.
i support the need for this report to help clarify the situation of alleged cia prisons and flights in the european union. however, there are references in this document which may cause confusion. the report should be objective and aim to investigate possible human rights violations. unfortunately, the direct accusations against certain member states, without any concrete evidence, make it impossible for me to support it fully. i cannot help but note that it is clear from this document that the european parliament already knows what has happened to these alleged secret cia operations and already has the verdict, thus substituting itself for the judicial authorities. our role as representatives of european citizens is not to replace law enforcement authorities, but to ensure that they do their job properly, so that those who have done wrong pay and such actions do not happen in the future.
mr. chairman, members of the committee, madam vice-chairman, members of the house of representatives, september 1 was a day of justice for the hungarian community in romania. on sepsiszentgyörgy, 30,000 people protested against the re-nationalization of the building of the mikó college in székely. a court order has halted the restitution process, although many church properties confiscated by the communist regime still need to be returned to their rightful owners, the historic churches. at the same time, the court sentenced the members of the committee, acting within their legal powers, to heavy prison terms. i would remind you that the return process was one of the criteria for romania's pre-accession to the european union. the injustice must be acknowledged by parliament and the rights of the one and a half million hungarians in romania must be upheld. i find it harmful that the european institutions automatically refer the problems of ethnic communities back to the member states. this is contrary both to the values and the interests of the union.
i would like to draw attention to the need for urgent action at member state and union level in the context of the sharp rise in food prices caused by the drought in the united states and eastern europe. according to the world bank, food prices rose by an overall 10 percent in june and july. the price of corn, for example, has gone up by over 25 percent. the effects are compounded by the rise in oil prices. oil and corn are essential raw materials in food production. uncertainties are increasing both in agricultural production and in oil price developments. in this context, the union must take specific, concrete measures. of course, the structural measures proposed in the framework of the future european agricultural policy are important, but we cannot wait until they become operational. last but not least, food support programmes must continue beyond 2013, because vulnerable citizens will become even more vulnerable in this context.
on 5 may 2010, right here in this very hall of the european parliament in strasbourg, we voted overwhelmingly for a resolution against the use of cyanide in mining. today, unfortunately, in romania that resolution is being challenged. a so-called environmental protection agency has given a favorable opinion for the use of the most poisonous substances in the gold and silver mines of certej, transylvania. the shadow owner of the canadian gold corporation, which has received the environmental clearance, is the shark george soros. it is obvious that we are dealing with a test balloon thrown into the stratosphere by the local mafia and the transnational mafia to test the reaction of the european institutions, environmental organizations and romanian public opinion - a kind of training with the public for the big blows that are being prepared at roşia montană and bucium poieni, where there are infinitely more important deposits. i ask the parliament of which i am a member, and the relevant structures of the european commission, to act urgently to annul this dead-end environmental opinion.
this report is welcome, as it aims to improve the quality of life for people across europe. voluntary tissue and cell donation is all the more important as some member states are facing difficulties in finding compatible cells. international cooperation is essential in this regard and exchanges of good practice in donation will contribute to the supply of tissues and cells. existing policies need to be revised to clarify and simplify things, and member states need to create a transparent and secure system for both donors and recipients. i would like to take this opportunity to stress the importance of awareness campaigns to increase public support. i also draw attention to the importance of stem cells from cord blood. they could be an important alternative for the treatment of many diseases.
member of the commission. − mr president, firstly i would like to express my appreciation to mrs yannakoudakis for the report on the voluntary and unpaid donation of tissues and cells. the commission welcomes this report. tissue and cell transplants are of immense value to many patients. such transplants represent a fast-evolving area of medicine and can make a real difference to people in terms of quality of life. the commission will analyse in detail parliament’s recommendations. in the meantime, let me assure you that the commission acknowledges, and indeed shares, many of the concerns raised. i believe we all support the fact that the donation of tissues and cells is voluntary and unpaid. the issue of an adequate supply of tissues and cells to meet eu citizens’ medical needs is, as we know, an area of concern for many member states. this is why i believe member states need to strike the right balance so as to help improve the availability of tissues and cells without in any way compromising voluntary and unpaid donation. the donation of tissues and cells depends on public trust in our transplant systems. your report highlights key elements to build and maintain that trust. a transparent and safe donation system is essential for public support. ensuring traceability of donated material between donors and recipients is essential in order to guarantee the safety and quality of the transplanted tissues and cells. ensuring adequate information for citizens looking for tissues and cells through banking services via the internet is important to guarantee citizens’ safety. in addition, the report rightly highlights the need for member states to share best practices so as to increase donations and foster international collaboration. european and international cooperation can bring much added value, in particular in medical fields like stem-cell transplantation, where finding the right match of cells for the right patient is difficult. regarding stem-cell transplantation, the commission would like to thank parliament for expressing its support for cord blood storage and use as an alternative source to bone marrow transplantation. it is important to ensure that good quality cord blood samples are available for patients. in order to support member states in their work, the commission has already started to address some of the key issues that parliament raises in this report. the commission is developing tools to support traceability and vigilance at eu level. an eu code will be applicable to all tissues and cells exchanged between member states as from 2014 and the communication platform for competent authorities’ rapid alerts for tissues and cells will be operational before the end of this year. discussions with member states are ongoing to define equivalent standards of safety and quality for tissues and cells imported from third countries. we plan to present a proposal on this issue by the end of next year. the commission has also supported several projects fostering the sharing of best practices and providing training for tissues and cells authorities under the health programme. however, despite such progress, much work still needs to be done. public awareness about cord blood donation and how to ensure availability and access to cord blood and bone marrow across the eu need careful consideration. another issue that requires thorough reflection by member states concerns the delicate balance between compensation and remuneration. the tissues and cells directive stipulates that compensation must be strictly limited to making good the expenses and inconveniences related to the donation. it is up to the member states to define such compensation, which may vary according to the specificities of the healthcare systems in the different member states. overall, the national application of the principle of voluntary and unpaid donation for tissues and cells therefore requires careful and judicious analysis within each and every member state. another area that requires our attention is scientific and technical progress. since the tissues and cells directive was adopted, new testing methods, new storage techniques and new therapies have emerged. such developments are being evaluated by the commission in collaboration with the member states. the commission is also currently finalising the transposition check of the tissue and cells legislation and preparing a survey on its implementation in the member states. the commission will be pleased to share the results of the survey with parliament by the end of next year. on the basis of the results of this survey, the commission will consider the possible review of the tissues and cells directive. your report is very timely and will be a valuable support for the commission in undertaking this task.
in writing. i would like to welcome the report, first of all because it brings considerable improvements to the eu's health system. this report encourages member states to pay due attention to the collection of umbilical cord blood stem cells at birth and promotes better and more extensive collaboration between family and public blood banks. in the context of the fact that, contrary to the current transplant legislation, there are still countries where the trade in tissues and organs is unfettered, it is very important to create the legal framework for the transparent and safe operation of tissue and cell banks for patients. the transformation of these banks into profitable businesses that exploit the economic situation of certain segments of the population must be avoided. as in most cases the number of donors is not large enough in a member state, health authorities need to introduce clear criteria for tissue and cell donations in order to protect the poor from abuse. in addition, let us not forget that it is very important that donors be fully informed about the procedures used in the process of donating tissues and cells, but also about the moral, psychological, medical and social consequences of their actions.
climate change and biodiversity loss threaten the living conditions, social status and well-being of the population. it calls on the member states to take measures to help women reconcile their private and professional lives and to encourage entrepreneurship in sectors such as renewable energy, agriculture, tourism and the pursuit of green innovation, particularly in the service sector. i also call for support and encouragement for women's access to micro-credit for small businesses. the commission estimates that the implementation of the energy efficiency plan has the potential to create up to two million jobs. it calls on the member states to develop training courses, through the erdf and esf programmes, to facilitate women's access to new green jobs and emerging technologies with an environmental impact. i support the adoption by member states of fiscal policies that promote the development of a green economy, stimulate investment in sustainable infrastructure and green innovation.
whether you're a man or a woman, the working conditions must be the same. in most countries there are discrepancies, particularly in women's access to jobs, but also in pay. i also cannot help but notice that in 2010, only one in seven board members of the largest european companies was a woman. the first is that women must defend their rights, including through civil judicial means where appropriate. working conditions for women in the service sector must be in accordance with the international labour organisation's declaration on fundamental principles and rights at work. the authorities of the member states must ensure that these principles are respected.
in 2010, in the european union, 83.1% of the female labour force worked in the service sector and 78% of all part-time jobs were held by women. i call on the commission and the member states to develop strategies and take concrete measures to combat poor employment conditions in the services sector, which particularly affect women. although the number of women using computers and the internet is increasing, digital skills gaps remain significant, making it difficult for women to seek and find qualified jobs. calls on the member states and regions to organise free training courses on the use of information technology, within the framework of projects financed by the european social fund, in order to give women the chance to acquire new technical skills in the fields of communications and information technology and to increase the chances of women finding decent work in the service sector.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, i would like to thank mrs garcía pérez for her report on the working conditions of female workers. this report offers a comprehensive but gloomy picture – an assessment that the commission shares. women are over-represented in low-quality, precarious positions and frequently have few opportunities for career advancement. lack of policies to reconcile work and family or private life, inappropriate incentives or rigid gender roles can contribute to this unfavourable situation. the presence of children, too, often dampens women’s employment prospects significantly. this is an issue that has to be dealt with urgently, as a woman’s decision to have a child should not imply her exclusion from the labour market. the persistence of the gender pay gap, women’s lower representation in decision-making positions and the barriers facing immigrant women are all further issues we have to fight against. overcoming these challenges features high on the commission’s political agenda. first, although there is no definite target for female employment rates in the europe 2020 strategy, it says that the 75 % employment rate in the 20-64 age group should be achieved through the greater involvement of women. the europe 2020 strategy also sets a target for reducing the number of europeans at risk of poverty by at least 20 million by 2020, which can hardly be achieved without better inclusion of women. second, gender issues were prominent during the european semester of enhanced policy coordination. the solid conclusion emerging from the first european semester was that the member states need to put in place a comprehensive policy mix to combat the gender employment gap and its main causes. country-specific recommendations were issued to several member states in 2011 and 2012 in this area. they have focussed on the need to offer affordable, available and quality care services, to remove fiscal disincentives for second earners from the tax benefit system, to provide flexible working arrangements and to combat the gender pay gap. the commission has monitored actions taken by the member states in this field and taken stock of progress made but has noted that additional efforts were necessary. the commission has instruments to help member states design and implement more efficient actions in this area. addressing equal treatment for women can be found in our few recent initiatives that underline the importance of a growing and inclusive workforce and a more equal society. first, our engagement is reflected in the priorities of the strategy for equality between women and men, which defines actions addressing cross-cutting women-related issues. the gender pay gap in the eu is one of these. its persistence indicates a need to tackle the underlying causes and to enforce the existing rules more effectively. the commission will report on the implementation of its directive on equal pay matters in 2013. the commission has recently launched an initiative which will help to raise the awareness of companies about the business and economic case for gender equality, such as the gender pay gap. training activities and exchanges of good practices for and by companies will be organised starting this autumn. furthermore, we will mark again european equal pay day in 2013. this house knows and supports vice-president reding’s commitment to making rapid progress on the representation of women in top positions in the corporate sector. given the insufficient and unequal progress so far, the commission is now considering taking an eu-level measure. second, i would also draw your attention to the employment package, which points to women’s integration into the labour market. the employment package also calls on the member states to establish national job plans within their national reform programmes and use them to focus on job creation and to fine-tune the use of the structural funds to increase employment opportunities. indeed, stronger governance of employment policy can provide a strong framework for improving the work conditions of the female workforce. according to the sectoral approach of the package, the commission will promote white-collar, green and ict careers in order to attract under-represented profiles such as women. third, a job is the best guarantee to avoid unemployment and exclusion in society. however, at the outset of the current economic downturn, social inclusion should be taken into account. our commitment is clear: to encourage development of the necessary social services within the framework of elaborating policy options and tackling the long-term care challenges. it can ease employment patterns so that women can enter the labour market. i believe that these provisions make things change on the ground and will close the gap between women and men.
in writing. in the field of equal opportunities for women and men, it must be acknowledged that the union has not fully achieved its objectives. ensuring decent working conditions for women, including health standards, access to social security and the possibility of professional development are still issues for which we are trying to find effective solutions. i personally believe that we need more effective work-life balance policies, especially since the overwhelming majority of parents who request parental leave are women, an inequality that is felt by children as well. a strong solution is to stimulate female entrepreneurship, while developing training programmes in the field of new technologies, where studies indicate gender discrepancies. they limit women's access to higher-skilled jobs and better pay and, in the long run, their career development. i also express my concern about the situation of undeclared workers, many of whom are immigrants, employed in private households. they are working in precarious conditions, with low wages and no social rights. unfortunately, this facilitates the vicious circle of poverty.
the eu-wide asylum issue remains a particularly sensitive one. the disparities that still persist between member states in asylum applications can only be remedied through greater solidarity. the establishment of the european asylum support office has the potential to establish this spirit of solidarity between member states. romania has understood the need to cooperate with member states receiving large numbers of asylum applications. although the number of asylum applications romania receives is small, my country has understood the need to cooperate with states affected by significant migratory flows. i hope that in the future financial perspective the asylum and migration fund will contribute to better management and cooperation between member states on asylum issues.
a review of the regulatory rules on pharmacovigilance at union level is necessary and welcome. the current system needs to be strengthened to ensure greater safety and to close existing gaps. it is very important that the information on the medicines is clear and useful and that it is formulated in a way that everyone can understand. this will enable patients and health-care professionals to act accordingly. at the same time, the side effects of medicines need to be monitored much better. in this way, there will be no more cases like the one of the french drug mediator, which almost all my colleagues have mentioned. transparency on the safety of medicinal products is essential for the protection of public health. i would point out that the benefits of a medicine for patients must always outweigh any harm caused by the occurrence of adverse effects.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission is grateful for parliament’s support for the first reading agreement on the pharmacovigilance proposals. with regard to the black box referred to by mrs mcavan, there is an ongoing project to analyse the feasibility and value added of certain information that will be summarised in what is now being called the drug fact box. the studies will involve collaboration with the european medicines agency and national competent authorities, as well as consultations with organisations at eu level representing patients, consumers, doctors and pharmacists, social health insurers and industry. the report on the readability of the package information requested by parliament in 2010 and the outcome of the study on the drug fact box is expected to be ready by mid-2013. i agree with ms matias that we cannot allow the financial crisis to punch holes in our healthcare system. health is, in my view, a fundamental right of all our citizens. apart from this, health is a major motor of economic growth, and cutting health is based on a major fallacy. we look forward to the adoption of the new legislation and its application, which will benefit eu citizens by strengthening both safety and transparency, and in particular to a greater number of medicinal products that will be subject to increased monitoring.
in writing. the delay in withdrawing mediator from the french market, despite problems reported for almost a decade, has highlighted irresponsible marketing practices and repeated errors, with tragic consequences. it is unfortunate that it took such a tragedy, which affected the lives of thousands of people, to force those involved to withdraw the drug from the market and to trigger the legal reforms needed to ensure the safety of the system. i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other political groups for their quick response and willingness to engage in dialogue to fill the gaps in the previous legislation. the fact that parliament's position has been accepted by the council is the merit of our negotiating team. our monitoring system will be stronger and more transparent and will be a more effective way of protecting the health of european citizens.
the european parliament has consistently supported the objective of encouraging maritime transport, given its low environmental impact. the commission should make full use of instruments such as marco polo and the transeuropean transport network - i am referring in particular to short sea shipping corridors - to provide targeted assistance and to increase the share of maritime transport in total european transport. member states may also consider it necessary to provide support to operators affected by this directive in accordance with the applicable state aid rules. in the amendments tabled and adopted in the tran committee, i called for member states to encourage the use of shore-based electricity as an alternative measure to ensure the availability and balanced distribution of marine fuels and to reduce emissions from shipping.
the energy performance of buildings directive requires member states to achieve near-zero energy consumption for all new buildings from 2021 and for all new buildings occupied and owned by public authorities from 2019. however, so far the commission has not received any national plan on increasing the number of nearly zero-energy buildings. the directive discussed today introduces new obligations for member states, such as the annual renovation of 3% of the surface of buildings owned by public institutions, to increase energy efficiency. although less ambitious than the original itre commission position, the compromise presented gives flexibility to national, regional and local authorities. i would point out that we are imposing ambitious obligations on the member states, but without ensuring adequate funding. i call for energy efficiency measures to have adequate sources of funding in the future multiannual financial framework, in particular through the structural funds. tomorrow's vote should represent a firm commitment by parliament to this end.
in writing. the new energy efficiency directive is an important step towards achieving the europe 2020 targets in both energy and pollution reduction. the new directive could lead to a reduction in energy consumption, limit imports, create new jobs and social security. it should be borne in mind that energy efficiency does not only mean investing in renewable energy or new energy projects, but first and foremost improving existing ones and reducing energy waste, which is very high at the moment, generating unjustifiable costs for citizens and, in particular, for socially vulnerable people. it is essential that new investments in energy efficiency are economically sustainable and do not lead to unwanted side effects such as increased energy costs for end-users. i also believe it is vital that this investment should also cover the private housing sector, as in many member states, especially in central and eastern europe, this generates extremely high energy losses. the same applies to energy production and transmission infrastructure, which needs to be modernised to limit collateral losses.
in writing. – i congratulate the rapporteur for the work done on this sensitive subject: intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy. the proposals of the report represent a step ahead but a small one. at european level, it is better to have information about intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy than no information. however, the european union is still far from its goal: to use the negotiation power of the european union for making agreements in the field of energy for the needs of the whole union. therefore, the european commission and the european council should further work to achieve this goal.
the first thing i would like to point out is that we have an hour and a half on the agenda for questions to the commission again, which has not happened since april, although it is a procedure provided for in the rules of procedure. the second thing is that the time has already been shortened by half an hour. the third point i would like to make is that we have two distinguished representatives of the european commission here - that is a good sign, but we can only ask them questions on a very limited subject. i don't know, madam president, why you gave agriculture as an example. i happen to be interested in it. question time is a form of parliamentary control over the work of the commission, but in this form it is only a simulation.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, i fully agree with mr turmes’s analysis of the key role that power exchanges play in the electricity market. we carried out this year – i cannot remember when, i think it was february – inspections on a list of operators in this market. we are working with information we collected through these inspections. i cannot tell you any more, though, because we are still dealing with this issue. in the coming weeks some information should be published on what our next steps will be in this regard.
member of the commission. - we will also address this in our single market communication. we believe that european legislation does not need any general changes. unbundling, the independence of the transmission system operators: the measures have been taken. the main issue now is that national regulation provides sufficient incentives and that energy policy provides sufficient planning certainty. we will get investors when investors know that a pipeline or a transmission network is necessary, makes sense in the european market and when the return is fair enough. we are in talks with the european insurance industry. life and pension insurance in particular are ideal partners in long-term investments, because they need long-term, low-risk investments and a medium return for their insurance customers. there's only one problem: unbundling. a number of companies in the insurance industry have told us that they hold shares in energy production, for my sake 5% in enel or eni or rwe or others, and therefore are not allowed to invest in networks purely formally. the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to the full. if someone only has a financial stake of 3% or 5% in an energy producer, i believe he is still able to invest in the grid. we are working on a pragmatic interpretation of this.
one of the objectives of the completion of the internal energy market is to reduce energy poverty and increase the accessibility of all citizens to energy, in particular electricity and gas. the economic crisis has left the union's population poorer and the construction of major energy infrastructures delayed. what is the impact of the implementation of the community energy acquis on reducing the risk of energy poverty in the european union?
member of the commission. - i believe that our task is to avoid increasing poverty and reducing the net disposable income of european citizens. i believe that our joint work in the coming years can lead to growth, to more employment and also to the competitiveness of the member states, their citizens, their businesses and their economies. in the field of energy: the commission is in the process of controlling the market, preventing or destroying monopolies, promoting competition and strengthening consumer rights. we have a big conference in london every year, where the only issue is consumer rights, i.e. the position of the small consumer of electricity or gas or heat vis-à-vis his contractual partner in an open market. in conclusion, the commission's budget proposal for the period 2014-2020 focuses on the energy sector. we will publicly fund energy research with european funds and thus relieve the burden on consumers. we want to co-finance infrastructure connecting europe facility with 19.1 billion from the european budget, thus relieving the burden on electricity and gas consumers, and we want to co-finance energy efficiency by focusing our structural programmes on the renovation of european buildings with the aim of achieving higher energy efficiency and thus lowering the long-term electricity bill, whether for schools, kindergartens or old people's homes, whether for private homes or for public infrastructure.
we'll be watching these developments closely. i would also like to ask you what is the state of play in implementing the intelligent electricity transmission networks, the so-called smart grid, what are the funding prospects in the future multiannual financial framework, outside the connecting europe facility and, lastly, given that the balkans are facing an energy shortage, how does the commission envisage international cooperation to provide the energy needed by this region?
i voted in favour of this report because energy consumption must be reduced. this is necessary to meet the challenges and limit our dependence on fossil fuels. my country has set itself a target of reducing primary energy consumption by 19% by 2020, but the target is very ambitious and at the same time very difficult to achieve. the main lines of action are to improve the efficiency of the energy production and distribution system and to inform the population. to this end, the structural funds make an important contribution and the monitoring of progress ensures the correct and coherent implementation of the project and the fulfilment of the established indicators. i believe that priority access should continue to be given to renewable energy and investment in this area. romania is increasingly encouraging this type of energy and is looking to continue promoting renewable energy sources through green certificates.
i wanted to take the floor to explain the vote in favour of this report, because it is one of the few balanced and realistic reports on a subject which has been the subject of debate not only at political level but also at civic level. i led the parliamentary inquiry in my country, romania, and based on the evidence available at the time, i ruled out the existence of detention centers, but i did not rule out the existence of transfers. in this context, i welcome the option of the need to revise the chicago convention on the regulation of civil aviation and the tokyo convention on aircraft crime. there are several outdated international legal mechanisms that have not allowed member states to carry out effective investigations and that are likely to call into question the response to investigations already carried out. beyond this, there remains the need for a european counter-terrorism mechanism to be agreed by all member states.
mr president, i voted for this report in view of the important commitment made by the european union in setting up a common asylum procedure and status for people who have been granted international protection. the establishment of a common european asylum system will increase the solidarity and also the accountability of member states and non-eu countries in the harmonisation of protection standards. we are committed to offering a safe environment to vulnerable people, but this cannot be achieved without practical cooperation and effective allocation of responsibilities between member states, complemented by financial solidarity. i want to stress that solidarity and responsibility go hand in hand if we want to offer real protection, international protection, to those vulnerable people.
i voted in favour of this report because the revision of the european standardisation system must remedy the current problems and strengthen the union's policy in this field. standardization has a strong impact on economic activity and influences growth and productivity. it is one of the measures proposed to relaunch the single market. this is why it is important to ensure clear and easy-to-use standards to facilitate participation by all actors. in particular, smes need to be given more attention and be involved in this process. in this respect, i welcome the rapporteur's proposals to improve the participation and access of smes to standardisation work. moreover, the introduction of standardisation in services will facilitate international trade, competitiveness and innovation. at the same time, service standards are welcome, as they will reduce trade barriers and increase consumer protection.
i voted for this report because food safety is of paramount importance and consumer safety is vital in this respect. electronic identification of bovine animals plays a key role and contributes to their improvement. i support amending the current legislation to better reflect the latest technological developments. at the same time, the adaptation of the legislation will strengthen the traceability system, which will become faster and more accurate. i also think that the labelling of beef and poultry should be simplified. this will eliminate administrative burdens and make the procedure easier. they also consider that electronic identification should not be imposed on breeders but should remain optional. this will protect consumers and help small farmers avoid unfair formalities. moreover, the proposal will increase the competitiveness of the sector and improve the commercial prospects.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it will bring important benefits for both health and the environment. air quality standards can be achieved by reducing sulphur emissions from ships. moreover, limiting air pollutants could prevent tens of thousands of premature deaths each year. maritime transport has a strong impact on air quality and can make an effective contribution to solving pollution problems. the benefits to public health will far outweigh the estimated costs. the directive will also help to ensure a level playing field and foster innovation and the efficient use of resources. i would stress that reducing marine emissions will also be a great economic benefit.
i voted in favour of this resolution because i consider it important, given the current challenging situation for both the commission's and parliament's agendas. i believe that the commission's future concerns, particularly in the economic area, are crucial for the future of the union. if we want more europe and more cohesion, the european commission, only together with the european parliament next year, has a chance in the legislative and decision-making projects it has imposed on itself. i particularly supported the amendments calling on the commission to involve parliament more in the implementation of next year's agenda, since the failures in the projects the commission envisages could be decisive for the state of the union and, above all, could create a deficit, if you will, of democratic dialogue between citizens and the european union bodies, but also between the european commission and the european parliament.
i abstained on this report, although i consider it an important report and a step forward from the old directive. but i don't think it offers the best solutions. the report takes a one-sided approach to a certain kind of ethics, that of privileging donation, but for religious reasons, from a perspective, i would say, deeply religious, this ethics is not consistent with privileging human life. i think that the discriminatory regimes it introduces, the double standards on the private and public regimes of donation are not fair and tend to actually impede the aim of this directive, which is the attempt by some of us to save other human lives with our organs. i think there were equal standards for both the state and private regimes. i believe that free donations should be given priority, but we cannot discourage charitable giving when it does not affect good morals and principles, and i also believe that we should encourage the notion of presumed consent, with member states being free to try different options, rather than standardising the option of member states.
i wanted to take the floor and present the option of voting for this report in which i was the alternate rapporteur and to stress two things. apart from the fact that this is a subject which has not brought much new in this own-initiative report, i think there are a few recommendations which i think are very important in relation to our option of involving women in a green economy, an option which is hypothetical because, unfortunately, neither the green economy is the rule, nor is the presence of women in this economy the rule. but asking the commission to bring about gender equality in the rules of access to european funds, to the european social fund, to the european regional fund is, i think, one of the solutions to promote women in this type of economy. furthermore, continuing vocational training with an environmental component in this vocational training would be a second solution and, finally, the gender perspective in the implementation of european directives should be taken into account when member states implement this option in their own legislation.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider the transition to a green economy to be one of the main objectives of the union. unfortunately, the way this transition is done doesn't take into account the gender dimension. adapting environmental policies to the gender dimension must take into account that women in general develop a more environmentally friendly attitude. it must also be recognised that there is an inequality between women and men in terms of access to some resources. i think we need to improve women's access to the professional technologies needed to get highly skilled jobs in the green economy. all programmes and projects launched should contain indicators for assessing the impact on gender criteria. i invite the commission and the member states to develop such indicators.
i supported this report for reasons which were quite different from those of my colleague. it seems to me one of the serious x-rays of a gender inequality that still persists in the labor market and specifically in the service market. 10% of the 130 occupations considered to be accessible to all on the labour market are occupied by women, generally those with low qualifications, which in my opinion is an alarm signal for access and for a certain kind of impoverishment of women in the labour market. furthermore, the fact that the wage differentials that persist in this field are revealed seems to me to be absolutely significant. but beyond these findings, it is clear that the solutions proposed in the report, and also the solutions proposed in the commission's options, are not the ones that will provide an answer to this problem, and i believe that by adopting such reports we are only raising the alarm about a reality that has been going on for a very long time, which may make it difficult for both our approach and the commission's approach to the matter.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for denmark is a good decision. this will support workers made redundant as a result of the global economic and financial crisis in their reintegration into the labour market. i welcome the additional support given to them following the changes in the structure of world trade. i would point out that the global shipbuilding market has been particularly affected by the economic crisis, with the workforce in this sector declining significantly. moreover, employment in denmark has deteriorated considerably and the unemployment rate has reached extremely high levels. in these circumstances, i believe that the mobilisation of the fund to provide a boost to the economy is more than welcome.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for odense steel shipyard in denmark. the request concerns 981 workers made redundant by odense steel shipyard, as the main beneficiary, and four other supplier and manufacturing companies in denmark, in the period from may to august 2011. the danish authorities argue that in recent decades european shipyards have lost a large part of their market share to asian companies. the global financial and economic crisis has worsened the situation on the global shipbuilding market, so that, according to the community of european shipyard associations (cesa), orders from european companies decreased in 2008-09. according to eurostat, the overall employment situation in denmark deteriorated sharply in 2009 and 2010. the unemployment rate increased from an unusually low level of 3,4% in 2008 to 7,6% in 2010. i therefore consider it important to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of denmark to facilitate the reintegration of displaced workers into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider the decision to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund for spain to be welcome and necessary in the current context. this mobilisation is intended to provide additional support to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers who have lost their jobs as a result of the global financial and economic crisis that has affected the world. in spain, the construction sector was particularly badly hit by the crisis and lending to this sector fell sharply. moreover, demand for new homes has declined due to a lack of consumer confidence and a lack of liquidity. and unemployment has also risen dramatically. in this context, i believe that additional mobilisation of the fund is needed to remedy the decline faced by the sector.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund for the region of aragon, spain. spain submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of 836 redundancies in 377 construction enterprises in the region of aragon between january and october 2011. the commission acknowledged in its economic recovery plan that the eu construction sector experienced a sharp decline in demand as a result of the economic and financial crisis. in spain, the number of building permits granted decreased by 75,6% in 2009 and by 82,8% in 2010 compared to 2007, and the number of buildings started decreased by 52,2% in 2009 compared to 2008 and by 76,7% compared to 2007. the spanish authorities argue that redundancies in the construction sector will worsen the unemployment situation, which has already deteriorated as a result of the economic and financial crisis of recent years. during 2008 and 2009, the unemployment rate increased dramatically in aragon, from 40 000 to 80 000 unemployed. i support the mobilisation of the egf to help reintegrate workers made redundant in the construction sector in the aragon region of spain.
in writing. − the union has set ambitious standards for energy efficiency, but assessments show that the enormous potential of energy saving and efficiency is not being fully exploited. the measures already taken by member states have proved insufficient to overcome the remaining market and regulatory barriers. that is why the energy efficiency directive is so important, because it sets a common framework for promoting energy efficiency in the union for 2020 and beyond. i would particularly welcome the provisions on the long-term strategy for the renovation of buildings and the provisions on the financing schemes for energy efficiency measures. of course, we would like to see an even more ambitious directive, so that the 20% target by 2020 becomes a reality, but at the same time we must be aware that the adoption of this directive is a major step that the european union is taking and we have the opportunity to turn it into a valuable economic opportunity.
in writing. − the european union is increasingly exposed to instability and rising prices on international energy markets, as well as to the consequences of hydrocarbon reserves being gradually monopolized by a small number of holders. competition among energy suppliers will not be enough to keep energy costs under control. another important aspect is the situation of residential and industrial buildings, which generate over 40% of primary energy consumption in europe. improving the energy efficiency of buildings is absolutely necessary to meet important environmental protection objectives on the one hand and to reduce the increasing energy costs for building users on the other. i therefore believe that the policies and measures adopted must lead to an absolute reduction in energy consumption, which will lead to a reduction in the overall cost of energy to consumers, freeing up revenues for eu citizens and businesses and reducing public sector expenditure.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that member states are encouraged to use more cogeneration, as the potential of this process is not yet fully exploited at union level. on the other hand, member states should encourage long-term investment in the renovation of residential and commercial buildings - both those belonging to public institutions and those belonging to the private sector - by using cost-effective renovation solutions and taking into account the different types of buildings and the climatic zone to which they belong.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the new energy efficiency directive is an important step forward towards achieving the europe 2020 targets both in the field of energy and in reducing pollution. it is essential that new investments in energy efficiency are economically sustainable and do not lead to unwanted side effects such as increased energy costs for end-users. i also think it is important that this investment should also cover the private housing sector, as in many member states, especially in central and eastern europe, this generates extremely high energy losses. the same applies to energy production and transmission infrastructure, which needs to be modernised to limit collateral losses.
in writing. − the european union must act as soon as possible to secure its energy future and protect its interests in this area. the commission should be empowered to adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 concerning the conditions for the participation of third countries in the union's energy market. i believe that there is a need to put additional pressure on local and regional representatives to comply with the directives set by the eu and at the same time we need to provide substantial financial support for the development of projects. by using community funds wisely for the next programming period 2014-2020, we will be able to achieve the 20% target for energy efficiency and, by implication, the sustainability and competitiveness objectives in the european union. in addition, reducing consumption through energy efficiency is the most sustainable way to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and will generate a significant reduction in imports of about 25%.
in writing. − setting targets to reduce carbon emissions by 20% by the end of this decade means not only effort, but also numerous benefits. energy efficiency benefits by significantly reducing the costs of energy consumption. the eu is currently maintaining its global leadership in energy efficiency, but strengthening this position to compete successfully with emerging economies is achieved by supporting european green technology businesses. eu energy efficiency policy must aim at the efficient exploitation of the energy potential of eu regions. it is therefore up to the member states to propose action plans within the framework of their national development strategies. structural funds and national contributions aimed at financing energy efficiency projects should be a priority of cohesion policy. supporting smes to improve sustainable technologies brings immediate benefits through significant cost reductions. local and regional initiatives are designed to promote investment in green technologies and to attract private investment. innovative financial instruments can help to stimulate private capital for emission trading.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, which i consider particularly important, especially at a time of rising oil prices and intense debate on the use of agricultural products for energy production. i consider particularly important the provisions on the development of efficient networks and the promotion of cogeneration as a future solution for local needs in terms of thermal and electricity. this solution is very suitable for rural areas where there are significant wood resources available. the report is a step forward in european energy-saving policy, a process which must continue.
in writing. − the european union's 20% energy efficiency target is one of the five main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. energy efficiency is also one of the key priorities of the european union's energy policy for the coming years, as it is the most cost-effective and fastest way to increase security of supply and an effective way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, which are responsible for climate change. achieving energy efficiency targets will improve the competitiveness of european industries and generate economic growth and job creation. energy efficiency can also mean lower energy bills for citizens, as well as reducing energy poverty, which can be achieved by adopting and financing energy efficiency improvement measures. i support the need for member states to use and increase the resources allocated to energy efficiency, in particular through the cohesion fund and the structural and rural development funds, as well as through specific european financial instruments such as the european energy efficiency fund. i also think it is useful for member states to set up a national energy efficiency fund to support national energy efficiency initiatives.
in writing. - i abstained on this report because, although i fully support the principle that the protection of human rights must not be compromised by any security considerations, including those related to the fight against terrorism, i nevertheless consider that the report goes beyond the strict sphere of legitimacy that the european parliament can assume, directly accusing certain member states of illegal collaboration with the cia, without instead providing objective evidence and arguments. investigations into possible cia secret flights and prisons should be carried out in member states that have not already done so, and investigations already carried out in countries such as romania and their conclusions should be recognised. moreover, the european parliament should not replace the investigating and enforcing authorities, but should ensure that they carry out their duties in a lawful manner.
in writing. - i voted against this resolution because some of the conclusions are at least superficial and hazardous. i am fully in favor of guaranteeing human rights and individual freedoms for all citizens, even those suspected of committing crimes. however, allegations of alleged incidents must be based on factual information from credible sources and cannot be based on mere conjecture.
in writing. − the european union wants to be a space of democracy and for this reason i believe that a common policy on asylum is necessary. this policy is in line with the geneva convention of 28 july 1951 and the protocol of 31 january 1967 relating to the status of refugees, as well as other relevant treaties. through this common system, eu member states undertake to guarantee a level of protection for persons seeking refugee status in the eu based on high standards and in compliance with these obligations. eu member states will ensure access for asylum seekers, beneficiaries of international protection and their family members to a form of protection and to justice, social integration and the labour market, in full respect of the principle of non-discrimination.
in writing. − i support the motion for a resolution on strengthening solidarity in the field of asylum and making the concept of solidarity and responsibility sharing a reality. the common area of protection and solidarity, based on a common asylum procedure and a uniform status for those who benefit from international protection, needs to be effectively supported through further alignment of member states' legislation, practical cooperation and increased solidarity and accountability. the eu's commitment to establish a common european asylum system (ceas) this year is all the more important as migration flows increase, triggered by the economic crisis, climate change and, above all, the effects of the arab spring. there are countries in the mediterranean area facing migratory pressure that they cannot cope with without the support of eu member states and that have a duty to share their asylum challenges.
in writing. − the solidarity aspects of asylum policy have come to the fore again following recent events, such as the severe socioeconomic crisis in several eu countries which are hosting waves of asylum seekers and are unable to deal with this problem effectively. it is clear that all these issues require major changes in asylum policy at the level of the european union. a common approach must be found in this area and solidarity in the field of asylum policy must be coherent, both between the member states and between them and the union institutions. in conclusion, improvements are needed in this respect in the shortest possible time and in all areas, but especially in the area of legislative synchronisation, both through better use of budgetary resources and through improved allocation of competences between member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on strengthening solidarity in the field of asylum in the eu, because i consider solidarity to be one of the fundamental values of the european union. the fundamental principle of the common european asylum policy is enshrined in article 80 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. support the creation, as from 2014, of a simpler and more flexible asylum and migration fund (amf) and the need to allocate sufficient resources to support the protection of asylum seekers and beneficiaries of international protection. i also consider that, in the context of the reform of the allocation of funds in the field of internal affairs for the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020, it is necessary to allocate sufficient resources to border protection in order to ensure greater solidarity in this area as well. strengthening mutual trust between member states is particularly important as there is an inherent link between mutual trust, the development of the common european asylum system and the expression of genuine and concrete solidarity. i believe that early warning mechanisms put in place to detect and address potential problems before they become a crisis can be a valuable tool.
in writing. − continuing efforts at institutional cooperation in the field of standardisation is one of the instruments through which the european union can stimulate the increase in the economic competitiveness of actors on its territory, as well as technological progress and innovation capacities. the standardisation process also contributes to a high level of consumer satisfaction through its indirect positive influence on lowering prices and improving the quality of european products. supporting the standardisation process can make a positive contribution to the european union's efforts to combat the effects of climate change and to supporting the work of small and medium-sized enterprises in the member states, the largest group of economic actors on the continent. national and european authorities must not forget that, in promoting standards-setting efforts, the interests of building an inclusive society must also be taken into account. for these reasons i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − standardization plays a central role in the proper functioning of the internal market. the existence of harmonised european standards contributes to the free movement of goods within the internal market and also enhances the competitiveness of businesses within the european union. although standards contribute to considerable improvements in the quality and safety of goods, no significant progress has been made in the area of services. i believe that the development of european standards for services will generate greater harmonisation in this sector, leading to increased transparency, quality and competitiveness of european services.
in writing. − i support this first reading agreement which is an important step forward for the eu standardisation system. i particularly favour the introduction of rules aimed at facilitating the involvement of smes in standardisation activities, especially taking into account the fact that smes provide a vital contribution to the eu economy. moreover, i commend the fact that the rapporteur has fully understood the importance of enhancing the degree to which both public authorities in member states and social stakeholders participate in european standardisation, since i believe it is of the utmost importance that all interests be equally represented in such a relevant field. also, i fully support the proposal of a consultation phase between the commission, the esos and the relevant stakeholders prior to issuing the mandate, as it will considerably accelerate the standard-setting process while at the same time ensuring that the market relevance of the standard is maintained. i also favour the proposed performance-based simplification of the current eu funding system in support of standardisation, as i believe it will help reduce the irrational waste of resources caused by the current lump sums-based system.
in writing. − the european standardisation system must take account of the growing number of small businesses in europe, especially craft enterprises and micro-enterprises, which in many european countries are the backbone of the economy. it is also important that the views of these enterprises and micro-enterprises can be taken into account when standards are drawn up and adapted to current developments in all areas. i also think it is useful to adapt the provisions in this area in an appropriate way so that all these actors can properly implement european standards.
in writing. − in a society where economic sectors are changing rapidly and product life cycles are becoming shorter, the role of european standardisation is to ensure the functioning of the internal market by both supporting competitiveness and ensuring a high level of consumer protection. however, i am concerned that standardisation in the field of information and communication technology (ict) is not sufficiently advanced, although it is constantly expanding. even if there are differences between member states in the use of ict tools in various sectors of activity, i still believe that harmonised standardisation at european level is necessary in this respect too. i believe that in the long term, a detailed regulation of this will have visible benefits for the industry and, by implication, for the way competition is conducted in the internal market.
in writing. − the eu's unity in diversity is a compromise that brings advantages, but also creates numerous obstacles. this is why the public and economic sectors, together with actors defending the interests of civil society, need to standardise services to operate more efficiently. european businesses need to improve their ability to adapt to changes in the global economy. standardisation can provide real support, especially for smes, and therefore it is necessary to take them into account when developing standardisation criteria. the low interest of public authorities in participating in the european standard-setting process creates delays and contributes to maintaining gaps between eu regions. in the field of public procurement, the harmonisation of procedures is a priority and digitalisation plays an important role in this respect. i consider it a priority to involve the social partners in the process of establishing standardisation criteria. the creation of a common framework on safety and rights for workers, people with disabilities and measures to increase sustainability contribute to improving social standards in the eu. i support this report because i believe that the process of standardisation is essential to attract investment from third countries. potential investors complain about the diversity of european markets and their lack of correlation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on european standardisation, as i believe that european standardisation can help to increase the competitiveness of businesses by facilitating the free movement of goods and services, the interoperability of networks, the means of communication, technological progress and innovation. the main objective of standardisation is to define voluntary technical or qualitative specifications that can be met by current or future products, production processes or services. standardisation may address different issues, such as standardisation of different classes or sizes of a particular product or technical specifications in product or service markets for which compatibility and interoperability with other products or systems are essential. the fundamental principles recognised by the world trade organisation (wto) in the field of standardisation, namely the principles of consistency, transparency, openness, consensus, voluntary application, independence from private interests and efficiency, should underpin european standardisation. in line with those fundamental principles, it is important that all relevant stakeholders, including public authorities and small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), are adequately involved in the standardisation process at national and european level. national standardisation bodies should encourage and facilitate the participation of interested parties.
in writing. − in these economically difficult times for the union's member states, it is not appropriate to burden farmers with additional administrative requirements. farmers have enough challenges to deal with to add to their burdens. at the same time, however, food security is one of the main concerns of european citizens. electronic identification of bovine animals allows for more reliable data and also strengthens the traceability system. member states will be able to decide whether the requirements will be mandatory in their territory. i think it is a very good solution and i support the rapporteur's approach and the solution proposed by the commission, which is why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − food safety is one of the main concerns of european citizens. european legislation must ensure their optimum protection by means of updated and stricter provisions whenever this proves necessary. following the crisis of bovine spongiform encephalopathy, the european union introduced strict rules on the identification and traceability of bovine animals in 1997. electronic identification of bovine animals allows for more reliable data, strengthening the traceability system and, at the same time, food security. it also allows for faster registration of cattle, automation of certain tasks and more effective management of herds. i think it is necessary to debate whether this measure is mandatory or optional and to quantify the costs that farmers should bear.
in writing. − this proposal aims to address important challenges in the adoption of emerging electronic bovine identification technology, the simplification of beef and veal labelling provisions and the updating of the rules on the commission's powers. this is to ensure the clarity and applicability of legislation on the identification and traceability of bovine animals and to achieve an optimal level of food security. an adaptation of the current legislation is necessary, in particular to recognise electronic identification as an official means of identification of bovine animals. it is essential to ensure the harmonisation of technical rules in order to avoid a possible anarchic development of this method of identification and to achieve interoperability between national devices. i request that the information to the actors in the system for the identification and registration of animals be provided 'at no cost to the addressee' in order to protect small farmers and other actors in the identification system and that it be repeated 'as often as necessary' to take account of the adaptations to this regulation. in order not to create problems for trade within the internal market, it is necessary that member states are informed by the commission of devices accepted in the territory of member states that have opted for mandatory electronic identification.
in writing. - i voted against the amendments to remove the optional labelling of beef and poultrymeat, because european citizens have the right to have as much detailed information as possible about the products they buy. i am in favour of simplifying this system but not of eliminating it. optional labelling systems should be encouraged in all areas of food production, provided that they do not lead to excessive bureaucracy.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the electronic identification of bovine animals and the abolition of the provisions on the optional labelling of beef and poultrymeat. electronic identification of bovine animals allows for more reliable data, strengthening the traceability system and, at the same time, food security. an adaptation of the current legislation is necessary, in particular to recognise electronic identification as an official means of identification of bovine animals. tracing beef to its source by means of identification and registration is a mandatory condition for origin labelling throughout the food chain. those measures ensure consumer protection and public health and promote consumer confidence. the use of electronic identification systems could streamline traceability processes by automatically and more accurately reading and recording in the farm register. it would also allow for the automatic reporting of animal movements to the electronic database and thus improve the speed, reliability and accuracy of the system. the use of electronic identification systems would improve the management of direct payments to farmers per head by optimising controls and reducing the risk of payment errors.
in writing. − i support this first reading agreement which will enhance pharmacovigilance within the eu. i particularly favour the introduction of the activation of an automatic urgent procedure allowing the commission to withdraw from the market a pharmaceutical drug if risks for public safety are detected. i truly believe that more efficient and transparent procedures need to be put in place, especially since the mediator scandal in france has dramatically highlighted how the lack of uniform and rational rules on this issue can severely harm eu patients’ safety. i particularly commend the fact that the rapporteur has fully understood the importance of ensuring that the highest possible level of protection is equally granted to all eu citizens, also in line with the actual commission orientation. i also wish to express my full support to this agreement as far as the need for further clarification of transparency obligations on companies when they withdraw a drug is concerned: in the aforementioned mediator scandal, the french company servier withdrew mediator from spain, claiming it was for commercial reasons, thus severely delaying investigations that might have helped save a number of lives estimated between 500 and 2000.
in writing. − the european parliament and the council agreed to review the rules governing pharmacovigilance at eu level by adopting directive 2010/84/eu. a number of measures are needed to lead to greater safety of medicines at eu level by strengthening the role of the european medicines agency in data collection and taking action in the event of detection of signals, as well as a number of other measures, such as: - clarification of transparency obligations for companies when companies voluntarily withdraw a medicinal product or do not apply for the renewal of a marketing authorisation, they must specifically state whether this is due to safety concerns; - summary of the product a brief description of the essential characteristics and data of the product that the patient needs to understand the benefit and potential risks of the product and to use it safely and appropriately; - the publication by the agency, on an annual basis, of a list of medicinal products for which marketing authorisations have been refused, revoked or suspended, the supply of which has been prohibited or which have been withdrawn from the market, including the reasons for such measures.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on the proposal to amend directive 2001/83/ec on pharmacovigilance, as recent pharmacovigilance events in the union have demonstrated the need for an automated procedure at union level in specific cases of safety concerns, to ensure that the issue is assessed and addressed in all member states where the medicinal product is authorised. the normal procedure should be initiated for the quality, safety or efficacy of medicinal products where the interests of the union are at stake. the union-wide emergency procedure should be initiated when a rapid assessment of concerns arising from the evaluation of data generated by pharmacovigilance activities is required. whether the union-wide emergency procedure or the normal procedure applies and regardless of the centralised or non-centralised procedure by which the medicinal product has been authorised, the pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee should always issue a recommendation where the reason for action is based on pharmacovigilance data. the measures adopted substantially strengthen the legal framework for pharmacovigilance, through provisions to strengthen the coordination role of the european medicines agency, detection flagging capabilities and the application of coordinated procedures at european level.
in writing. − the european parliament and the council agreed to review the rules governing pharmacovigilance at eu level by adopting regulation (eu) no 1235/2010. a number of measures have been identified as being necessary following the european commission's stress test of this legislation, namely: - an automated emergency procedure for example, where member states wish to withdraw a medicinal product, benefiting from a discretionary margin to do so, and the european commission proposes that the emergency procedure be automated; - a new element triggering the emergency procedure if companies decide not to apply for the renewal of the marketing authorisation for safety reasons, this should trigger the emergency procedure; - for medicinal products included in the list of medicinal products subject to additional monitoring, the summary of product characteristics and the package leaflet must state 'this medicinal product is subject to additional monitoring'. this shall be preceded by a black symbol selected by the commission on the recommendation of the pharmacovigilance risk assessment committee by 2 july 2013 and followed by an appropriate standard explanatory note.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the proposal to amend regulation (ec) no 726/2004 as regards pharmacovigilance. in order to ensure transparency regarding the supervision of authorised medicinal products, the list of medicinal products subject to additional supervision introduced by regulation (ec) no 726/2004 should include all medicinal products subject to post-authorisation safety conditions. the european medicines agency, in collaboration with the member states, shall establish, manage and publish a list of medicinal products subject to additional monitoring. the list includes a link to the product information and the summary of the risk management plan. that list shall include the names and active substances of: (a) medicinal products authorised in the union containing a new active substance which was not part of any medicinal product authorised in the union on 1 january 2011; (b) any biological medicinal product not covered by point (a) which has been authorised after 1 january 2011; (c) medicinal products authorised under this regulation subject to the conditions referred to in article 9 (4) (c) or article 10a (1) (a), article 14 (7) or article 14 (8); (d) medicinal products authorised under directive 2001/83/ec subject to the conditions referred to in article 21a (b) and (c) or article 22 or article 22a (1) (a) of that directive.
in writing. − for the shipping industry, the traditional means of propulsion used by seagoing vessels is heavy fuel oil, a derivative of oil. heavy fish may have a sulphur content of up to 5%. for comparison, the sulphur content of fuels used by trucks or cars must not exceed 0,001%. sulphur dioxide emissions are known to cause acid rain and to generate suspended dust. these dusts are hazardous to human health, causing respiratory and cardiovascular diseases, and reducing life expectancy in the eu by up to two years. for these reasons, i support the commission's proposal, which is part of the efforts to tackle air quality problems and precedes a wider review of air policies to be carried out before 2013.
in writing. − the objective of the proposal is to implement the upper limits on sulphur content in marine fuels agreed in 2008 within the international maritime organisation (imo). the imo sulphur limits are 0,1% in the sulphur emission control areas (secas) from 2015 and 0,5% in the other maritime zones from 2020. the sulphur limit in the ceaz is currently set at 1%. by the end of 2011, fuels used at sea may contain up to 4,5% sulphur and thereafter, by 2019, up to 3,5%. the 0.1% sulphur limit proposed by the commission is to apply to all territorial waters of eu member states within 12 nautical miles of their coasts. by the end of 2013, the commission should explore the possibilities of establishing new emission control areas in european maritime zones and methods leading to further emission reductions, and subsequently report to the parliament and the council on this subject and present proposals for the establishment of possible new sulphur and nitrogen oxide emission control areas.
in writing. − air pollution from shipping is thought to be responsible for thousands of premature deaths each year in europe, as well as for causing significant long-term environmental damage. i fully support this agreement, especially the more ambitious deadline of 2020 by which the new limits must be in force. it strikes the right balance between environmental protection, legal certainty, and a realistic target for operators. regulating the maritime sector and creating a genuine level playing field for its operators is notoriously difficult. the international agreements made through the international maritime organisation are minimum standards, and we should strive to improve on them. as the commission’s analysis shows, the health and environmental benefits of a 2020 deadline will be significant, and the sector will be encouraged – and helped – to make the necessary investments, resulting in a cleaner atmosphere and a healthier environment.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the reduction of the sulphur content of certain marine fuels because the application of the new provisions will help to reduce environmental pollution caused by the burning of marine fuels with high sulphur content. the achievement of the objectives of directive 1999/32/ec on the reduction of sulphur content in certain marine fuels requires the appropriate application of the obligations on the sulphur content of marine fuels. i believe that a stronger system of monitoring and enforcement of sulphur obligations is needed to ensure the proper implementation of the directive. compliance with the low sulphur limits of marine fuels may result in a significant increase in prices. appropriate solutions are therefore needed to reduce the compliance costs borne by the affected industries, such as the authorisation of alternative and more cost-effective compliance methods. i believe that member states and the commission should promote the testing and development of new technologies, considering the possibility of creating a joint programme to reduce pollution from marine fuels, co-financed with industry and based on the principles of similar programmes such as the clean sky programme.
in writing. - i voted for this report because of the importance of the wine sector in romania. my country is a major wine producer and for that reason i think it is appropriate to amend the regulation on the single payment scheme and support for wine growers. in this way, we will ensure that this sector is appropriately financed in the future multiannual financial framework. romania attaches particular importance to the reform of the common agricultural policy, aiming for the period 2014-2020 at maintaining allocations at least at the current level. if we want romanian and european agriculture to progress, we must ensure that the money for the cap is used in the most efficient way possible. this is the main challenge for the common agricultural policy in the forthcoming multiannual financial perspective.
in writing. − as farmers face increasing risks and problems in increasing productivity, the latest cap reforms focus on strengthening support for rural development as an integrated policy in the development of rural areas across the eu. the new proposal on support for winegrowers recommends that the five-year period provided for in the current legislation be reduced to one year and apply only in 2014, with the possibility of an irrevocable transfer decision from 2015. i believe that the solution proposed by the commission is favourable to the wine system and will bring continuity to the strategies adopted by the member states in this sector of agriculture. this will enable winegrowers to manage risks much better and to react quickly to crisis situations. a strong agriculture is vital both for the european food industry and for global food security.
in writing. − the development of administrative cooperation between member states and the european institutions on the single market's information communication infrastructure is an implicit guarantee of increasing the european union's economic competitiveness. it is equally important, however, that the benefits and opportunities offered by the internal market information system are also shared with the european citizens directly affected or involved, in a manner that does not affect the security and functionality of the system or through an interface separate from the system itself. at the same time, the economic and political development of the european union depends on the expansion of its relations with external partners. it is appropriate for the european institutions to examine the possibility of extending the internal market information system or of interconnecting it with the specialised it infrastructure of partner countries. last but not least, a strong commitment to european legislation on the protection of personal data should play an important role in all these efforts. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted for this report because the internal market information system (imi) has proven to be a fast and secure means of ensuring crossborder information exchange and administrative cooperation. there are currently over 6 000 authorities in all member states registered in the system. a smooth cross-border exchange of information between member states' authorities is essential for the deepening of the single market in the european union. i believe that the commission's proposal will establish a sound legal framework for the imi. it will also facilitate the possible future extension of imi to new areas of eu law and clarify the role of the different actors involved in imi. last but not least, a comprehensive data protection framework will be ensured by developing rules for the processing of personal data in imi.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the imi system is a proven instrument in the effort to complete the single market. the new formula will also ensure better data protection and faster exchange of information between competent authorities by creating a 'face-to-face' electronic network of european administrations. the establishment of this common, efficient and secure communication channel, which is available in several languages, will further foster cooperation between the administrative structures of a member state with their counterparts in any other member state. i also agree with the rapporteur that this proposal will ensure that the full potential of the imi is exploited, bringing net benefits to both the internal market and citizens.
in writing. − i consider it beneficial that the competent authorities of the member states can, through the application of this regulation, communicate more quickly in a wider range of policy areas and, in particular, it is important that there is the possibility of better cooperation between local authorities and their participation in the single market.
in writing. - i voted for the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on administrative cooperation through the internal market information system (imi regulation). the internal market information system (imi) is a software application accessible via the internet, developed by the commission in cooperation with the member states, by establishing a centralised communication mechanism to facilitate cross-border exchange of information and mutual assistance. the imi shall help competent authorities to identify counterparts in other member states, to manage the exchange of information, including personal data, on the basis of simple and uniform procedures and to overcome language barriers on the basis of predefined and pre-translated workflows. i consider that, in order to overcome language barriers, it is necessary for imi to be available in all the official languages of the union. this regulation lays down the rules for the use of imi for administrative cooperation, including for the processing of personal data, between the competent authorities of the member states and between the competent authorities of the member states and the commission.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that europe must be put back on the path of economic growth and development and that the crisis we are still facing must be overcome as soon as possible. in this context, i believe that a clear and comprehensive picture of member states' strategies is needed. it is essential to develop new common policies in order to avoid a similar crisis in the future. at the same time, existing policies need to be reviewed to ensure that they remain appropriate to the challenges facing member states. the common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies in different member states is an appropriate one, but it must provide greater clarity. to this end, i consider the commission's proposal to be a positive and at the same time necessary step.
in writing. − i consider that cooperation between the tax systems of the member states is essential to avoid the reduction of revenue not collected, which is detrimental to the proper functioning of the internal market. it is also beneficial to avoid the possibility of tax evasion, tax substitution or any undue tax exemptions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies in different member states. the european parliament called for concrete ways to combat tax fraud and tax evasion, drawing attention to the possibility of tax evasion. we call on member states to ensure cooperation and functional coordination between their tax systems to avoid involuntary tax avoidance and tax evasion. the elimination of all taxation of interest and royalties in the member state from which the payments originate is the most appropriate solution to eliminate formalities and problems and to achieve equality of tax treatment between domestic and cross-border transactions. this directive shall not affect the application of national provisions or provisions based on a convention which go beyond the provisions of this directive and have as their objective the elimination or mitigation of double taxation and the double non-taxation of interest and royalties. in order to ensure a simplified and more transparent taxation system, it is therefore necessary to eliminate the taxation of such payments when they are made between associated companies in different member states or between the permanent establishments of such companies.
in writing. − europe must commit itself to the social market economy model, which leads to sustainable growth, jobs and a better quality of life for citizens. the union's main challenges are to maintain competitiveness, to grow the economy, to combat unemployment, to ensure a functioning labour market and good social conditions to improve employment performance, to promote decent work, to guarantee workers' rights and working conditions across europe and to reduce poverty. the european commission must present a european action plan to stimulate sustainable economic growth and decent jobs. it must also present an eu strategy for the homeless, addressing the growing problem of poverty among women and minimum pension schemes. slow progress was made on the presentation of a commission legislative proposal on improving gender balance in company management and the commission's lack of initiative in revising the directive on equal opportunities for women and men in matters of pay and employment. the commission should closely monitor the launch of the paternity leave initiative and present a legislative proposal on the eradication of violence against women.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the commission's work programme for 2013, calling on the commission to take action on simplifying eu programmes, in particular in the field of research and innovation, and to monitor closely the use of financial engineering instruments. we also call on the commission to present a detailed action plan with measures for a fully integrated and interconnected single energy market and to develop a strategy to address the impact of rising energy prices on the most vulnerable members of society. we support the need to modernise europe's multimodal transport network, which is fundamental to the success of the internal market. we voted for the paragraphs stressing the importance of youth employment and the need to expand the union's capacity to stimulate education and training and we expect concrete measures to reduce poverty and reform the labour market. we call for a strong cohesion policy at eu level after 2013, ensuring the integration of existing funds and programmes, ensuring adequate resources, building on multi-level governance and aligning with the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − donations should be made voluntarily, without profit and in a transparent manner. it exclusively refers to tissues and cells that fall into one of these three categories, namely multiple tissues, reproductive cells and non-reproductive cells. in order to optimise the potential of cord blood, the competent authorities should develop awareness campaigns, targeting in particular future mothers. common rules should also be strengthened and implemented within both national and private banks, which should work together to increase the availability of national cord blood samples. compensation for donations should be carefully managed and presented by member states and should be limited to compensation for expenses incurred in the process of donation, such as travel expenses, loss of income or medical costs. member states should consider increasing the number of bone marrow and peripheral blood stem cell donors so that any patient requiring a stem cell transplant has the best chance of finding a compatible donor.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution and was pleased to reiterate my support not just for the principle of unpaid and voluntary donation but also for the related issue of cord blood research. i want to stress the importance of giving the right information to parents so they can make informed choices about the collection and in particular the storage of cord blood. whilst fully exploring the potential of this area of medicine and promoting the collection of cord blood for the mutual benefit of everyone, we must be sure that the information given about the potential uses of cord blood is consistent with scientific knowledge and not unproven speculation. i am grateful that parliament gave its support to my call for the european group on ethics to re-examine the ethical aspects of cord blood banking.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on voluntary and unpaid donation of tissues and cells. i think it is important that all member states clearly define the conditions under which fair and proportionate financial compensation can be granted, taking into account that it is strictly limited to covering the costs of donating tissues and cells. member states must adopt measures to protect living donors and ensure that donation is anonymous (except for collection from a living person for a close relative), voluntary, freely consented to, informed and unpaid. it is necessary for member states to step up their public information and awareness campaigns in favour of tissue and cell donation and to ensure the provision of clear, fair, scientifically sound and conclusive medical information and data enabling the public to make an informed choice. it considers it important to establish rules to ensure the traceability of tissues and cells of human origin from donor to patient and vice versa, and a system to regulate imports of human tissues and cells from third countries, ensuring that equivalent standards of quality and safety are applied.
in writing. − an ecological or sustainable economy is a system that conserves the productive capacity of ecosystems while creating a society in which the basic needs of all people are met. equal participation in ecological politics and economics is needed to ensure that women's interests are taken into account as well as men's. the current economic system ignores the limited nature of natural resources. production and consumption generate emissions and forms of pollution that sooner or later will end up in our ecosystem. the capacity of the ecosystem to absorb and manage emissions and to adapt to changing circumstances is finite. once the absolute limit is reached, important ecosystem services are at risk of disappearing. i think that to avoid such a scenario, we need to move to an economic system where the pace of natural resource extraction favors resource recovery as well as the production of new resources.
in writing. − the green economy is defined as a socially and ecologically sustainable economy, as social sustainability includes a social order based on gender equality and social justice, regardless of gender, ethnicity, colour, religion, sexual orientation, disability or political opinion. the role of women in the green economy in many member states continues to be underestimated and ignored, creating numerous discriminations in terms of lost benefits such as social protection, health insurance, adequate wage and pension rights. member states must recognise the importance of the essential role women play in raising and educating children and protecting the environment and adequately remunerate both informal and formal work. the european commission must support investments and programmes that promote green jobs for those who need them most: young people, women and the poor. member states must ensure appropriate working conditions and strengthened social dialogue to facilitate the transition to the new green jobs, also for women. they must also be proactive in granting women access to a decent standard of health care and education and housing.
in writing. − socially and ecologically, the green economy is a sustainable economy, which includes a social order based on both gender equality and social justice, regardless of gender, ethnicity, colour, religion or political opinion. in several member states, the role of women in the green economy continues to be ignored, creating numerous discriminations in terms of lost rights such as social protection, health insurance, wage and pension rights. in this context, i believe that, at european level, environmental policies at all levels must include a gender perspective in defining, implementing and monitoring the promotion of gender mainstreaming as an instrument of good governance in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, but also in strengthening gender equality and social justice. i also believe that member states should promote specific research and studies on women and gender equality in the green economy so that the gender perspective is included in environmental protection and environmental impact assessment studies.
in writing. − the transition to a green economy affects women and men equally in different sectors of activity both socially and professionally, but not to the same extent, with much greater discrepancies in some member states than in others. unfortunately, we still do not have concrete data, based on extensive eu-wide studies, to illustrate these differences as realistically as possible and to allow us to draw up clear policies in relation to gender perspectives. these policies are needed to be then specifically integrated into sustainable development programmes at regional, national and international level, thus eliminating the disparities existing in different areas of the eu.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on the role of women in the green economy because i believe that a sustainable economy means an economy that creates decent jobs and sustainable communities and allows for a fairer distribution of resources. we voted for the provision of adequate working conditions and decent standards in health, education and housing for women, and for their strong participation in social dialogues to facilitate adaptation to the new green jobs. i support the need for more childcare centers, which is absolutely necessary to reconcile work and family life. we believe that european policies should provide support for social security, family planning and childcare, because only a society that provides these conditions can enable women to bring their experience to bear and contribute equally to the prosperity of green economies. we call on member states to ensure equal representation of women in political decision-making bodies, as well as in government-appointed bodies and institutions dealing with the definition, planning and implementation of environmental, energy and green jobs policies, so that a gender perspective is integrated into these policies.
in writing. − in the european union, in 2010, service jobs accounted for 69.4% of total jobs, of which 83.1% of the female labour force worked in the service sector, compared with 58.1% of the male labour force. in romania, according to a world bank report on equal opportunities for women and men, women are paid on average 10% less than men for similar jobs and the same level of education. this difference is, however, smaller than that in the region. equal pay for women and men is a 'smart economy', as countries that create opportunities and good working conditions for women can increase productivity. to achieve a good balance between gender representation and professional competence, companies should adopt a system of flexible quotas for women's representation on boards. flexible quotas mean that each company will set its own percentage, selection procedure and deadline for reaching the quota.
in writing. − in the eu, in 2010, service sector jobs accounted for 69.4% of total jobs, while industrial jobs accounted for 25.4% and agricultural jobs for 5.2%. the majority of the female labour force is employed in the service sector: 83.1% compared with 58.1% of the male labour force. member states should adopt policies to integrate vulnerable workers, in particular those with low skills, the unemployed, young and older workers, persons with disabilities, persons with mental disorders or belonging to minority groups, such as migrants and roma, into the labour market through well-targeted and tailored vocational guidance, training and traineeship programmes. the situation of migrant and undeclared workers in the service sector, in particular those employed in private households, the majority of whom work without a contract, in precarious work, in home services and in inappropriate working conditions, with lower wages than those of declared workers and without social rights, requires the adoption of appropriate policies to ensure that migrant workers enjoy fundamental human rights, including the right to healthcare, fair working conditions, education and training, physical and moral integrity and equality before the law.
in writing. − the increasing individualisation and flexibility of the labour market in many member states puts employees, and particularly women, who also have to fulfil family obligations, in a more vulnerable position, which can lead to precarious employment. the share of women in precarious employment in the labour market is high and certain forms of precarious work performed by women, such as paid domestic work and care work, are almost non-existent in the labour market. in the european union, there are wide disparities in employment opportunities, quality of work and equal pay for equal work or work of equal value, according to the current legislative framework. in these circumstances, i believe that both the ec and the member states must adopt clear guidelines and concrete measures to safeguard existing jobs but also to create employment opportunities, especially for women, within the europe 2020 strategy. a strategy on precarious work at european level is needed, with a focus on both decent and green jobs and gender mainstreaming.
in writing. − i voted for the resolution on working conditions for women in the service sector because 83.1% of the female labour force worked in these sectors in 2010. also, nine out of ten new jobs created are in the services sector and the future development of the single market for services will contribute to significant job growth in this sector. i support the need to strengthen policies aimed at reconciling family and working life and, in particular, to increase free and quality public social services and structures to provide childcare and other dependants in both rural and urban areas. i believe it is important to involve more women in research, as they can play a decisive role in the development of new and innovative systems and new products and services in the service sector. they argue that greater participation of women in innovation processes would open up new markets and increase european competitiveness. last but not least, the acquisition of ict skills will increase the employment opportunities of women, especially in the service sector.
in writing. − vocational education and training is one of the engines of economic growth, while also contributing to greater social inclusion and cohesion. it is therefore necessary that policies in this area are implemented in the europe 2020 strategy as effectively as possible. i believe that there is a need for further investment in education, lifelong learning, research and innovation. i believe that young people should benefit from increased measures to integrate into the labour market after leaving school, as they are a category that has been deeply affected by the current crisis. last but not least, i believe that older people should be encouraged to participate in education and training activities aimed at personal fulfilment and social contact. i voted in favour of this resolution, which can help to improve cooperation in the field of education and vocational training in the next stage of the 'education and training 2020' programme.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i pay particular attention to the field of education. the joint report of the commission and the council on education and training at union level raises questions about how member states are preparing future generations for the labour market. romania has launched a wide-ranging reform of the education and vocational training system, which has been concretised by the adoption of a new education law. this law will allow the education system to be better adapted to the real requirements of the labour market. the legislative framework on training has been supplemented by the law on apprenticeship, which is intended to stimulate the vocational training of young people. all these measures were adopted as a result of the ambitious objectives romania has set itself in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. i call on the commission to continue to provide all the support to member states needed to meet the europe 2020 objectives in education and training.
in writing. −education and training 2020 is a strategic framework for european cooperation in education and training, building on the previous work programme education and training 2010. priorities in education and training at european level should be: the need for smart investment in policy reforms, with more efforts needed to meet the europe 2020 headline target on early school leaving and territorial education; lifelong learning; transnational mobility for new skills and the need to improve europe's skills base. good language skills in the official languages of the eu are needed from childhood as this allows for greater mobility, better access to the labour market and offers much greater opportunities for study, while also contributing to promoting intercultural exchanges and greater european cohesion. i call for increased efforts to establish and implement a european system for the certification and recognition of qualifications, for formal and non-formal learning, including voluntary work, so as to strengthen the links between non-formal and formal education and to improve national and cross-border mobility in education and the labour market.
in writing. − investing in education is essential for all member states, especially in early childhood education. they provide adequate vocational training, which subsequently leads to access to the labour market and avoids future costs related to health, crime rates and antisocial behaviour. despite the financial constraints caused by the financial crisis, there should be programmes for the re-entry of young people who have left school, including at university level.
in writing. − i voted for this report because it underlines the need for greater investment in education and training. the report places particular emphasis on preventing early school leaving and promoting education and childcare. improving the quality and efficiency of education and training, including improving basic skills and the use of foreign languages, should be a priority of education reform. it is also very important that young people have access to more vocational training and traineeships to help them adapt to the labour market. i hope that we can soon see results in this area as well.
in writing. − the education sector must be seen as a priority in all member states, and how we regulate lifelong learning now will have a profound effect on the well-being of future generations of the european union. although there are efforts to implement and popularise adult continuing training programmes at a wide level, i believe that considerable efforts are needed in terms of vocational retraining. jobs come and go from decade to decade, and the number of people who are unable to work because they are not keeping up with the pace of science and technology is constantly increasing. moreover, i believe that the increase in the retirement age is an additional argument for starting solid investment in comprehensive vocational retraining and lifelong learning programmes across the union.
in writing. − our regular discussion of the general situation in education and training across the union helps us to assess progress towards the common goals. cooperation in education and training can undoubtedly support the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives. we need to do more to reduce early school leaving and increase the proportion of higher education graduates, including by providing support for young people from financially disadvantaged families. early education is in turn an extremely valuable factor in the later development of the individual. we cannot afford to give up this component of training, which has a long-term positive impact on national budgets and on the health of citizens, which helps to reduce antisocial behaviour later on. lifelong learning must also be encouraged, as the retirement age is steadily rising in europe and the skills needed by employees are becoming more diverse. we fully recognise the importance of citizens' participation in crossborder mobility programmes, but we have not yet succeeded in removing the obstacles to labour mobility. it is time to expand the very small list of professions recognised at european level and to remove the barriers that exist in the member states.
in writing. − in the current situation in the context of the most severe and prolonged crisis in the history of the european union education and training and the prevention of early school leaving are investments that guarantee a successful resolution of the crisis. it is imperative that the demand for and supply of work be exactly in line with each other in order to avoid the creation of so-called lost generations. the lifelong learning programme can and should be the most helpful in this respect, because it can and should enable you to adapt to a changing labour market of opportunities. through better quality education and training, younger or less younger generations have a better chance of overcoming the crisis. the member states have a difficult task: it is difficult to create synergies between labour supply and labour market absorption capacity. higher education makes it easier to find a job, but we must beware of the 'dumping' of higher education, because society is in great need of craftsmen, skilled workers and the continuation of our traditional trades.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on education and training in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. if the eu is to emerge from the current economic and financial crisis, economic growth must be based primarily on education, knowledge, innovation and appropriate social policies. in order to successfully overcome this period, it is important that policies in this area are properly and fully implemented in the framework of the eu 2020 strategy. i call on member states to prioritise spending on education, lifelong learning, research, innovation and linguistic and cultural diversity as investments for future growth, while ensuring the added value of this investment. the unemployment rate in the eu has risen to over 20%, with levels above 50% in some member states and regions, and young people, especially the least qualified, are particularly affected by the current economic and financial crisis. i would stress that young people have a key role to play in achieving the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in terms of employment, research and innovation, climate and energy, education and poverty reduction. economic and social development and the competitiveness of the eu and its member states depend on investment in education and training and the quality of services in these sectors.
in writing. - i voted for this report because the european audiovisual market is very fragmented. greater predictability is needed for both copyright holders and consumers. the creation of a digital single market requires the removal of all barriers to the free movement of audiovisual products. this must be done in a way that respects copyright and ensures adequate remuneration for rightholders. i also consider it particularly important to respect the principle of net neutrality. we must allow consumers non-discriminatory access to audiovisual products distributed on the internet. the achievement of general interest objectives such as media pluralism and cultural diversity requires special measures. the commission and the member states should propose concrete measures to this end.
in writing. − digital technology and the internet are rapidly changing the way audiovisual material is produced, marketed and distributed. increasingly, consumers want to be able to watch anything, anywhere, anytime, on any device. business models need to evolve rapidly to keep pace with the ever-accelerating pace of technological change, which offers new opportunities for creators and distributors, while also creating new expectations among consumers and thus stimulating growth and job creation. the production, financing and distribution of audiovisual works in the eu is handled by a complex network of large, medium and small specialised enterprises, each with its own specific characteristics. the single market is working and offers new perspectives and opportunities for consumers, creators and service providers alike. i believe that the union's policy in this area must aim at creating an environment which favours the development of legal content accessible to all, innovation and creativity.
in writing. − in an increasingly dynamic information society, the cultural and creative industries must continue to provide a significant number of jobs in all member states. this will also make it possible to increase the economic contribution of these sectors to the gross domestic product of the countries of the union. last but not least, we must bear in mind that these sectors make a significant contribution to the education of young people, a priority area of european policies.
in writing. − the issue of intellectual property rights in audiovisual content, including in the digital sphere, has been discussed at eu level for a long time, with many attempts at harmonisation taking place to date. what i think we're missing, however, is a more cause-and-effect approach, in this case a matter of educating citizens about the importance of copyright protection and the proper use of online distribution channels. moreover, education systems in the member states need to focus on developing digital skills and integrating new technologies into curricula so that future generations are aware of the importance of adopting a civic attitude in the digital environment.
in writing. − given the specific nature of the audiovisual sector, but also the fragmentation of the european online market, a unified approach to several issues at community level is required. online use can be a real opportunity for better dissemination and distribution of european works, provided that the provision of audiovisual works is made legally, in compliance with the principle of copyright. looking at the figures available at european level, an interesting phenomenon emerges: the cultural and creative industries we are talking about contribute up to 2.5% of gdp, which is similar to the figures for the automotive industry. this makes it all the more important to organise public awareness campaigns on the importance of copyright, alongside programmes to promote digital and media literacy for all eu citizens, including those with disabilities. i also support facilitating online payment methods for audiovisual works, and rethinking the associated costs, as an accessible alternative to piracy. i also stress the importance of adapting european legislation to the realities of the internet and the digital age, and one of the biggest challenges is still preventing access to platforms offering illegal content.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the online distribution of audiovisual works in the european union. the fragmentation of the online market is characterised by technological barriers, the complexity of licensing procedures, differences in payment methods, lack of interoperability for essential elements and variations in certain taxes applicable to goods and services. i believe that a transparent, flexible and harmonised approach is needed at european level in order to progress towards a digital single market. i would stress that the digital divide between member states or regions of the eu is a serious barrier to the development of the digital single market. i recommend that broadband internet access be extended throughout the eu to stimulate access to online services and new technologies. online use can represent a real opportunity for better dissemination and distribution of european works, in particular audiovisual works, provided that their legal provision can develop in an environment of fair competition. calls on the member states and the commission to promote solutions to support the digitisation, preservation and educational availability of these works, including at cross-border level.
on behalf of the s&d group. – madam president, we are now debating again a traditional and important report on our cfsp. this year its author elmar brok has decided to break the pattern of this report and introduce a newer approach, less conventional and more strategic in nature, setting a relatively high level of ambition for our cfsp. a first hurdle to overcome has been that of the current situation which compels the eu to be more inward-looking and parsimonious with its means, in other words, while challenges are accumulating, our willingness and capacity to properly deal with them have objectively diminished. under the circumstances one wonders whether the level of ambition stated by the report is reflecting a normal situation unaffected by crisis or is attuned to our current difficulties. this is important because in the first case we might become unrealistic and in the second we might lack credibility. a second hurdle has been the rapid evolution of the international environment, including the one in our direct neighbourhood. the report is inevitably a snapshot of the situation at a certain moment in time, while the international environment is in a state of flux. therefore one needs to anticipate and be in front of developments if one wants to stay relevant. a third hurdle is our credibility. indeed we have to convince the rest of the world that we continue to be an attractive option, that we can both master our own problems and still pay considerable attention to what happens around us and in the rest of the world. inevitably, all these hurdles have influenced the outcome reflected in this report, thus time is continuously pressing and we have all had to accommodate ourselves to the new tempo and deal with its novelty. consequently there were numerous amendments, too short a time to debate them and reach the inevitable compromises, and last minute amendments which sometimes go beyond and outside the compromise amendments reached previously. however, paying proper attention to this very important report, for which i salute the rapporteur, is indicative of our mission to continue to address properly international, political, economic and military issues in parallel with the efforts to overcome our internal crisis.
madam president, ms ashton, the csdp’s military and civilian missions have always been part of a larger international commitment, and they have only rarely brought about a real improvement in the situation on the ground. their function was always more to indicate to nato and the united states that the eu is in a position to take on security policy missions. only in a few instances, such as somalia, georgia and macedonia, was efficient crisis management achieved. in the future, member states should discuss and reach a decision on the following key documents prepared by the european external action service. on the one hand, there is a new security strategy, and on the other hand, a european white paper on security and defence policy defining what military and civilian tasks the eu will take on, where it will intervene, how the necessary capabilities will be provided, and how member states’ resources can be committed to these purposes. in doing so, the csdp must become more efficient at offering clear added value. (the president cut off the speaker)
in writing. – we will never be able to be efficient or have a proper vision of our external action as long as we fail to understand the fact that our values cannot be promoted until we manage to resolve our geo-strategic problems. this is not about abandoning our values. it is about creating a framework for them to grow roots and flourish. the primacy we currently give to the values does not reflect our attachment to them, but our incapacity to define the geo-strategic interests of the eu. since we do not know our identity, we do not know our interests and we cannot define our long-term objectives. this is why we prefer to fight an illusory crusade that gives us the false impression of being capable of imposing our model around the world, believing that this solves all of our other problems. until we change this approach we cannot have a real common foreign and security policy. what is worse, since our foreign policy is not the goal but rather the means, through its lack we condemn ourselves to irrelevance within the international competition.
first of all, i would like to condemn the violent repression of the opposition and the deliberate attacks on civilians by the regime of bashar al-assad and his supporters. the violence has also affected the romanian community in syria, which numbered some 14,000 at the start of the crisis. many of the romanian citizens have chosen not to leave syria and are suffering because of the barbarity of the syrian regime. in addition to humanitarian aid for the victims, our main concern must remain, i think, diplomatic action, the aim being to convince bashar al-assad to withdraw from syrian politics, to allow negotiations to end the confrontation. in this respect, i welcome the decision of the foreign affairs council to impose tougher sanctions on the syrian regime. i believe that all possible measures must be found and applied to limit the actions of the dictator in damascus, such as restricting the financial and commercial activities of syria, as has been decided in the case of iran. i am also very concerned about the deadlock at the un security council and i am appalled that some of the permanent members are tolerating the massacre in syria in order to protect their commercial interests in the area. following the renewed refusal of russia and china to negotiate a new resolution to the syrian problem, i believe that the european union should consult with its strategic partners in support of a united syrian opposition.
in writing. for the past year and a half, we've been quantifying the deaths from the internal conflict that's been severely affecting the syrian people. diplomatic efforts, political pressure and international sanctions have all failed to produce results. moreover, august was the bloodiest month since the uprising erupted in march 2011. the deteriorating situation in syria complicates the regional equation. attacks by kurdish rebels on the turkish-syrian border risk internationalizing the conflict in a middle east that is on the brink of war and amid rising tensions between iran and israel. in the face of the permanent blockade of the security council on the syrian issue, the new un envoy, lakhdar brahimi, who replaces the resigned kofi annan, believes that military intervention would mean the failure of the political process. i would like to know, in these circumstances, what is the position of the european union on the egyptian president's initiative to convene a meeting of representatives of a group of states in the region to find solutions to the syrian crisis. i believe that there is a possibility that regional dialogue could be more effective than other options, some of which have already been exhausted, but only if there is also the necessary will to find a solution on the part of the great powers, whose lack of support was criticized by the former un mediator, kofi annan.
in writing. i think that the european commission's proposal to use other measures, not just trade, should be fully supported, but i also think that a clearer approach with much stronger and more effective measures is also needed. the trade measures to be applied should not be limited to imports of 'stocks of common interest' and 'associated species' but should apply to all imports of fish and fishery products of any species from countries that allow non-sustainable fishing.
i congratulate our colleague on the paper he has presented, which is a very good summary of the current challenges in the fisheries sector. i also want to thank him for supporting the inclusion in this report of the provisions on the need for a new regional fisheries management organisation in the black sea. indeed, the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean (gfcm) is not an appropriate framework for the management of the black sea, and the european commission needs to put into practice its earlier commitment to create a black sea advisory council. it is also necessary to intensify dialogue with the black sea coastal states, in particular on the exploitation and conservation of fisheries resources. i take advantage of this to make another point, namely that there is a legislative vacuum regarding minimum landing sizes and minimum mesh size for heel nets. this year, turkey blocked a decision on this issue in the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean here is an example to back up what has been said so far.
when we talk about victims, we have to think first of all about those categories who have difficulty in claiming their rights. i am referring to minors, whether they are direct or indirect victims, the elderly and the disabled. i am also thinking of the rights of women, victims of sexual abuse. uniform victim protection rules are essential. it is important to ensure their participation in judicial proceedings. member states should provide information on how and under what conditions victims can access compensation. i also believe that their access to translation and interpretation services should be a basic right. the adoption of the draft directive can be a step towards strengthening the area of freedom, security and justice.
the problem of the sugar sector is much wider than the issues raised by the questions in the debate today and is not confined to sugar cane. romania, for example, only obtains 20% of its consumption from its own resources, i.e. from beet grown and processed in the country, production being limited by the quota system. the remaining 80% of consumption is provided by refining imported raw sugar or directly by importing white sugar. in recent years, romanian refineries, and others, have had major problems supplying the necessary raw materials and maintaining the market. imports of raw materials are strictly limited to certain sources and only a small quantity can be purchased from efficient sources that can ensure a continuous supply. the european commission has so far been unable to come up with consistent proposals that would ensure supply to refineries in the medium and long term and allow for minimal planning of activity. as a result, refineries are operating at only 60% capacity. under these conditions of underutilization, refineries are inevitably forced to close their doors. we expect measures to remove the limitations on the supply of raw materials through tariff and non-tariff barriers. these measures are necessary and urgent if the union is to continue to have its own refining industry. if not, we'll keep importing.
the reform of the sugar market carried out by the union in 2006-07 has shown its limits. production at european level has decreased considerably. many of the member states have become importers of sugar after being net exporters a few years ago. this is also the case in romania, which can no longer satisfy its domestic consumption from domestic production. the future common agricultural policy will have to take account of these aspects. the quota system will have to be adjusted to the actual production, processing and consumption capacities of each country. the commission will also have to ensure fair competition between the three sugar production models. i am referring to cane sugar refineries, which are facing major difficulties in supplying raw materials.
i didn't say i'd take my colleague's question. as you said, it's very late and we're very tired.
article 4 of the treaty on european union states that the union shall respect the equality of member states before the treaties. president barroso, in your speech you said that without equality between member states, there can be no equality between citizens. president barroso, i appreciated your many statements acknowledging that romania meets all the technical criteria for accession to the schengen area and supporting my country's accession to the schengen area. i therefore ask you, mr barroso, to limit yourself to the recent statements by mrs reding, vice-president of the commission, in which she referred to a possible postponement and the possible introduction of new criteria for romania's accession to the schengen area. on behalf of the romanian people, i ask you, mr president barroso, to support the commission's proposal for romania and bulgaria to join the schengen area, an important step towards the trust contract between the european institutions and the european citizens.
in writing. we are still in a difficult period, with the economic and sovereign debt crisis continuing and the main objective remaining economic recovery. the measures decided to stimulate the economy and reduce unemployment must be implemented as soon as possible and in the most effective way. in this respect, i believe that the focus must continue to be on boosting entrepreneurship and job creation in the union. fiscal and budgetary discipline and economic growth are issues that must continue to be on the agenda. i believe that the union must be strengthened, but it will take time for the effects of the decisions taken to be felt. at the same time, reforms must be based on the principle of equality and better coordination. the need for deeper integration has become more and more acute in recent times. president barroso reiterated a very important theme, that of the federalisation of the european union. romania has consistently supported this idea, including the importance of moving towards political union. the specific needs of each member state must be taken into account in order to reduce differences in competitiveness and productivity. only then will we be able to achieve a coherent economic policy and an internationally relevant foreign policy.
in writing. the european countries are in a very serious situation, and i do not want to talk primarily about the current economic and financial crisis, but about the moral crisis and the crisis of confidence that are affecting our societies at least as much as the debt crisis. the european nations embarked on an unprecedented project to create a common europe after the second world war, and yet, unfortunately, we all experience that even today, trust is still not complete, not only between the member states and the eu, but also between the states and their citizens. some countries are devoting considerable resources to goals that are long overdue. for example, some member states do not value national minorities living on their territory, but hinder their legitimate aspirations and continue to seek their assimilation. they spend more on their outdated, centralized administration, intelligence, military than they do on education, infrastructure, social issues. in my opinion, particularly in the present circumstances, these practices do not help to overcome the dual crisis of morality and trust that is stamping our daily lives.
mr president, i voted in favour of this proposal because it will strengthen and give more substance to the rights of the victims in the european union and will improve their protection throughout the union. we have finally set minimum standards for handling the victims of crimes, irrespective of their nationality or the place where the crime was perpetrated. this directive provides for the first time a unified definition of a victim to be used in all eu countries. this definition was broadened to include people such as the victims’ close family. this directive will increase the confidence of eu citizens in the area of justice and they will feel they are equally protected in all member states. i call on the member states to develop greater cooperation and coordination to protect and provide support for the victims of crime.
the role and needs of victims in criminal proceedings are still generally not sufficiently taken into account in the legal systems of the member states. the current situation shows that in many cases victims are not treated with respect and dignity, are not sufficiently protected or supported, and do not have effective access to justice, compensation and reparation. it is not acceptable that the level of support provided to a victim differs depending on the member state in which the victim was injured. mutual recognition can only work effectively in a climate of trust, where not only judicial authorities but also all parties to criminal proceedings can have confidence in the adequacy of the rules in each member state and can be sure that they are correctly applied. i therefore support this report and express my conviction that, once this directive is adopted, the situation of victims will improve considerably throughout the european union and that victims of crime will benefit from the same basic rights and services in all member states.
i voted in favour of this report because the european union's efforts to achieve sustainable fishing activities are not enough, as long as they are individual. the union must also encourage third countries to follow its example and pursue sustainable fishing activities. overfishing of certain fish stocks, such as mackerel, can have global effects. these effects are felt beyond the borders of the exploiting state, with long-term consequences for marine biodiversity. the imposition of trade barriers on states that engage in unsustainable exploitation may be the union's response to encourage responsible behaviour on their part. the adoption of such measures should be preceded by an environmental, commercial, economic and social impact assessment.
i voted for this report because the commission's proposal must provide a high degree of predictability for producer organisations. the common organisation of the markets in fishery products is a basic component of the common fisheries policy. the choice of products in full knowledge of the facts is particularly important for the european consumer. the use of an eco-label for fishery products provides clear information on the environmental sustainability of these products. to this end, full coherence between the common fisheries policy and the common commercial policy is necessary. imported products entering the union market should meet the same marketing requirements and standards as european union producers.
i voted in favour of this report, which is an annual report, a position paper and, above all, a document which should have a vision. of course, he continues the classic line of approach to the european union - he does not bring much new in this approach - but it was important to me that, in the security component of european policy, the rapporteur addressed some subjects which are important not only for the future of a common policy, which is sensitive in this area, but also for the visibility and strength of the european union outside its borders. i am referring to the fact that the strengthening of the external action service's capacity to act in the field of conflict prevention was welcomed. i think that allocating a significant amount of money in the future budget is very important. secondly, the issue i would like to highlight is the arms trade. a common position on the negotiation of the future treaty is the key to success in this area.
i too supported mr brok's report because the solution to global challenges can only be found through integrated approaches. the lisbon treaty gave the union a number of instruments to enable it to speak with one voice. however, there are still a number of shortcomings in the common foreign and security policy. strengthening relations between the european external action service, the commission and the member states is essential. only in this way can we achieve synergy in the effective implementation of external action. i believe that, as regards the future of the cfsp, special attention should be paid to the european neighbourhood policy, with emphasis on its eastern dimension. the eastern partnership must be an essential means of promoting the union's values in eastern europe and of offering a real european perspective to countries such as the republic of moldova.
i voted for this report because the current system of fishing quotas has brought the short-term concerns of the states to the fore. the sustainability of the fisheries sector has thus been put on the back burner. the regionalisation of the common fisheries policy should be considered as a solution to address the current shortcomings. the commission must initiate long-term plans which take account of the needs of the member states on the one hand and the need to preserve fish stocks on the other. some 60% of european fish stocks are exploited beyond the maximum sustainable yield. this overexploitation also affects other species, such as the black sea dolphins. they are accidentally caught in fishing nets very often. in this connection, i have initiated a written declaration on the need to establish means of protecting the dolphins in the black sea.
i also voted in favour of this report because the reform of fisheries at european level must take account of the realities in each member state. the commission should therefore draw up a series of studies on the fish stocks available at union level. estimates are required on the sustainable exploitation of these stocks. these estimates should propose a timetable for the reduction of the exploitation leading to a recovery of stocks in a relatively short time. it is particularly important that the studies are adapted to each member state and take account of the actual exploitation capacities it has. the possibility of regionalising the common fisheries policy needs to be examined more closely, however. this would ensure a much more efficient use of funds for fisheries.
in writing. − i entirely support this directive with the changes proposed in this report, because it will strengthen the rights of victims all over europe. i also voted in favour of this report because of the attention given to vulnerable categories in society, like children and people with special needs. in the past, citizens of the eu residing or travelling in another eu member state faced serious difficulties in getting the same level of protection as the nationals of that member state. this directive will create a set of minimum common standards across the eu for victims of crime, creating a shorter and easier process for victims to receive the support they need. ultimately, this will ensure that each victim is treated with respect and dignity without any sort of discrimination anywhere in the eu.
in writing. − trust in justice is a priority for all citizens, especially for victims whose rights are ignored or not respected. a common and transparent judicial system, applicable in all eu member states, is a pressing need. the directive will not only defend the rights of victims by providing support and protection, but will also help european citizens to gain confidence in the judicial systems of their own country and those of their eu neighbours by harmonising minimum standards. in order to assess in detail the circumstances and characteristics of the victims, it is necessary to define 'gender-based violence' and 'intimate partner violence'. gender-based violence refers to violence directed against a person because of their gender. intimate partner violence includes acts of violence by partners or former partners or other family members, leading to discrimination and violations of the fundamental freedoms of victims. the special situation of victims with specific needs shall be taken into account when designing appropriate support services or training practitioners who will have direct contact with victims. the directive thus includes a number of rights guaranteed to victims, filling a significant gap in the protection of human rights for victims of crime.
in writing. − i support the report on strengthening the rights of victims of crime across the eu. since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty in 2009 and the guidelines for the european area of freedom, security and justice, the protection of victims of all types of crime has been, as envisaged in the stockholm programme, at the top of the eu agenda. a common and transparent justice system, applicable in all eu member states, must be based on the need to support victims, including those with special needs or, as they have been called, vulnerable, such as victims of gender-based violence, children and people with disabilities. in europe, more than one fifth of all women have experienced physical violence at least once in their adult lives, and more than one in ten have experienced sexual violence involving the use of force. in this context, i believe it is essential to criminalize all forms of gender-based violence and to take special measures to prevent, protect and redress victims of this type of violence.
in writing. - approximately 15% of the eu population, i.e. about 75 million citizens, are directly affected by the approximately 30 million crimes (excluding minor crimes) committed annually (eurostat statistics 2007). previous regulations for the protection of victims of crime and their enforcement have been deficient so far. at the same time, member states' laws are currently very different and social dynamics are creating new regulatory requirements. given the above, i support this report, as the proposed measures will: - guarantee the respectful treatment and full and accurate information of victims and their accompanying persons about their rights; - provide victims with legal, financial, psychological and practical assistance; - ensure communication in a language that the victims understand; - ensure effective access to compensation and redress. i also consider it useful to take into account in the establishment of support measures factors such as the age, intellectual capacity of the victim, personal characteristics or the type of crime, which would make persons outside the categories established as vulnerable in general vulnerable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on the establishment of minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime. victims of crime must be recognised and treated with respect, care and professionalism, without discrimination on any ground such as race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic features, language, religion or belief, political or other opinion, belonging to a national minority, possessions, birth, disability, age, gender, gender identity and gender expression, sexual orientation, residence status or health. information and advice provided by competent authorities, victim support services and redress services should, as far as possible, be provided through a range of means and in a manner that can be understood by the victim. the victim should have the right to challenge a decision finding that interpretation or translation services are not necessary, in accordance with the procedures under national law. victims should also be informed of any right to appeal against a decision to release the offender, if such a right exists under national law.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the amendment to this regulation is welcome and at the same time necessary for the management of certain community tariff quotas for certain types of meat and cereal products. the existing legislation and the powers conferred on the commission to adapt the implementing measures and to amend the regulation should be aligned to the treaty of lisbon as soon as possible. those powers should take into account both the delegated and implementing acts. they also believe that parliament should be more involved in the preparation and implementation of delegated acts. at the same time, the removal of references to the committee procedure is particularly important in order to reflect changes in the application of the procedure.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the alignment of the council regulations on imports of olive oil and other agricultural products from turkey with the regime of delegated and implementing acts. i also support the rapporteur's amendments concerning the introduction of new recitals on implementing and delegated acts and greater involvement of parliament in the preparation of delegated acts. i also consider it appropriate to extend the period for objecting to a delegated act and to extend the monitoring period. furthermore, limiting the delegation of powers to the commission is a positive step. i believe that the amendments in question will make it possible to apply and monitor the legislation in the field of the common commercial policy correctly.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the amendment to the mutual recognition agreement with australia is intended to simplify and improve its functioning. this type of agreement aims to remove technical barriers to trade while also protecting health, safety and the environment. i therefore believe that mutual recognition agreements are extremely important and that their amendment should aim at clarifying and facilitating their functioning. they must allow greater flexibility and, at the same time, remove unnecessary restrictions from the path of international trade, facilitating its development under the best conditions. i welcome the fact that the agreement will apply to all the products concerned, irrespective of their nature or origin. i also support the institutional and procedural changes that have been put in place.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the amendment of the agreement on mutual recognition in relation to conformity assessment, certification and marking between the european community and australia. mutual recognition agreements aim to remove technical barriers to trade while protecting each party's health, safety and environmental objectives. the mutual recognition agreements with australia provide for general rules on the establishment of conformity assessment bodies as well as specific rules applying to the various regulated sectors. i welcome the simplification of the operation of the mutual recognition agreement, which establishes a simpler procedure for mutual recognition in conformity assessment. i welcome the abolition of the rules on industrial products. i also welcome the revision of the sectoral annexes on medicinal products and medical devices to take account of technical developments and administrative practices.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i support improving and simplifying the functioning of mutual recognition agreements. i believe that all unnecessary barriers to international trade must be removed as soon as possible. i also believe that health, the environment and safety are particularly important in this context and must be taken into account and protected as much as possible. the amendment of the agreements will ensure greater flexibility and reduce the administrative burden in managing them. at the same time, this adaptation aims to facilitate and clarify the way in which the agreement operates. i would also like to stress that during this process account must be taken of technical developments and of updates or changes in legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft council decision on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and new zealand amending the agreement between the european community and new zealand on the mutual recognition in relation to conformity assessment. the draft amendment to the mutual recognition agreement (mra) with new zealand was negotiated by the commission with the objective of improving and simplifying the functioning of the mra. mutual recognition agreements aim to remove technical barriers to trade while protecting each party's health, safety and environmental objectives. the mutual recognition agreement with new zealand lays down, in its main part, the general rules for the establishment of conformity assessment bodies. the purpose of the amendments is to allow greater flexibility in the structure and to remove unnecessary restrictions on trade between the parties, to reduce the administrative burden and to facilitate and clarify the functioning of the agreement. it is necessary to establish a simplified procedure for the recognition, withdrawal of recognition and suspension of conformity assessment bodies.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, but i think that parliament should have been more insistent in calling for firm action. the eu has a special responsibility not only to ensure sustainable fishing but also to protect european fishermen, who are subject to strict and costly rules. european fishermen are seriously disadvantaged by unfair competition from fishermen from states that systematically refuse to comply with any rules.
in writing. - i voted for the report on measures applicable to countries allowing unsustainable fishing, with a view to conserving fish stocks. this regulation establishes a framework for the adoption of certain measures concerning the fisheries-related activities and policies of third countries in order to ensure the long-term conservation of stocks of common interest to the union and those third countries. measures applicable to countries allowing unsustainable fishing should be proportionate to the objectives pursued and compatible with the obligations imposed by international agreements to which the union is a party and any other relevant rules of international law. considers it necessary to impose quantitative restrictions on imports of fish of any associated species and fishery products derived from or containing such fish when caught in fisheries targeting the stock of common interest under the control of countries allowing unsustainable fishing. in order to ensure that the measures are environmentally sound and sustainable, effective, proportionate and compatible with international standards, the commission needs to assess the commercial, environmental, economic and social effects of these measures in both the short and long term, as well as the administrative burden associated with their implementation.
in writing. − the common organisation of the market in fishery and aquaculture products also requires the establishment of a guide price before each fishing season, based on the average of prices on the wholesale markets and representative ports over the last three seasons and oriented according to production and demand trends, as well as the needs of stabilising the market, supporting producers' incomes and protecting consumers' interests. a second community price, the withdrawal price for products which cannot be sold above or at least at the same level, is set according to the quality of the fish, but it must be between 90% and 70% of the guide price. within this band, producer organisations may themselves set withdrawal prices below which they will not sell the products supplied by their members, in which case surplus quantities will be withdrawn from the market and producers will be paid compensation from the intervention fund set up by them from the producer's contributions, determined on the basis of the quantities withdrawn by each producer for sale.
in writing. − in the development of the future common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products, i believe that the main role should be played by producer organisations, as they are the main responsible for the proper application of the common fisheries policy and the common organisation of the markets. i therefore recommend that the commission take steps to ensure that these organisations have well-defined objectives and only carry out sustainable fisheries and aquaculture activities. in addition, we must ensure that producer organisations take account of the conditions imposed by the eu in the fisheries and aquaculture sector, with particular attention to small-scale fisheries. this will help to contribute constructively to the dynamic development of the eu aquaculture sector and to meet the growing demand for fish against the backdrop of declining global fish stocks.
in writing. − the common organisation of the markets is the first component of the common fisheries policy, but also one of the most important. i welcome the adoption of this report, which is the first element of the wider package of reform of european fisheries. across the union, citizens who live off fishing and fish processing expect this reform to bring about substantial changes that will improve the quality of their lives and the quality of the products that reach the tables of european consumers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the common organisation of the markets in fishery and aquaculture products. the regulation aims at ensuring that the common organisation of the markets contributes to the objectives set out in the regulation on the common fisheries policy and in particular to providing market incentives in support of more sustainable production practices, to improving the market position of union products, to developing production strategies to adapt to structural changes and short-term fluctuations in markets, and to strengthening the commercial potential of union products. the common organisation of the markets shall be guided by the principles of good governance, based on a clear definition of responsibilities at union, national, regional and local level, a long-term perspective, broad participation of operators, flag state responsibility and consistency with the integrated maritime policy, the commercial policy and other union policies.
in writing. − terrorism, organised crime, the proliferation of regional conflicts, security of energy supply or climate change pose security threats. these threats are increasingly felt around the world, including in europe. to cope with these risks, the european union must take an integrated approach, through the joint and joint efforts of all states. partnerships with key players on the international stage are also essential to combat these scourges. the european union must further support the efforts of partner countries in the process of implementing obligations in the field of human rights, strengthening democracy, the rule of law and judicial independence. it is necessary to ensure coherence and consistency between the components of foreign policy. therefore, particular attention should be paid to strengthening the relations between the high representative of the european union, the european external action service and the member states. as regards the future of the common foreign and security policy, the strengthening of financial instruments promoting peace, security, democracy and the rule of law is of particular importance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the annual report from the council to the european parliament on the common foreign and security policy. the eu should further develop its foreign policy objectives and promote its values and interests throughout the world, with the overall aim of contributing to peace, human security, solidarity, the rule of law, conflict prevention and the promotion of democracy, the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, sustainable development, transparent and accountable governance, free and fair trade and poverty eradication. under the lisbon treaty, the eu has all the means to adopt a comprehensive approach, using all the union's diplomatic and financial resources in support of common strategic guidelines to promote the security and economic prosperity of european citizens and their neighbours, and fundamental rights, with all its strength. we call for the further development, with the participation of the relevant commission services, of an appropriate mechanism within the european external action service (eeas) integrating geographical and thematic expertise and leading to a comprehensive approach to the planning, formulation and implementation of the common foreign and security policy.
in writing. − according to the latest commission report, the current common fisheries policy has not achieved its objectives in terms of conservation and sustainable exploitation of eu fisheries resources. moreover, fishing capacity has not been adapted to the available fisheries resources, as shown by the alarming figures: over 60% of fish stocks in european waters are fished above the maximum sustainable yield. i therefore believe that the development of long-term management plans for commercial fishing activities by the commission is a necessity. the regionalisation of the common fisheries policy should also be a priority, as the specificities of the different european seas and the situation of small-scale fishing in the different regions of the union must be taken into account. the creation of closed areas where fishing activities are prohibited is also important to achieve effective results in conserving biological aquatic resources and the marine ecosystem. for these reasons, i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − for the conservation and good management of fisheries resources, technical conservation measures have been adopted applicable, inter alia, to the size of nets, the authorised size of fish that can be caught and restrictions on catches in certain areas, periods or by certain types of vessels. i believe that the best exploitation of resources also requires permanent monitoring of fisheries by means of surveillance vessels. in this situation, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the community relies on the coercive means of the member states. the authorities of the member states are thus obliged to inspect fishing vessels in accordance with a common procedure, and their crews are obliged to keep a logbook indicating the quantities of each species caught and retained, and to submit to the authorities of the landing point, after each voyage, a declaration of the quantities landed.
in writing. − although the commission has established multiannual recovery plans, they have so far covered only a limited number of fish stocks in eu waters and thus have not sufficiently reduced overfishing. in addition, given the diversity of european seas, i believe that long-term management plans should be drawn up taking into account the needs of all geographical fishing regions in the eu. the european commission must ensure that plans are drawn up in a highly decentralised manner, with full involvement of all stakeholders. by regionalising the common fisheries policy, we will be able to align management measures with the real situation faced by the different fleets and thus reduce overfishing.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the reporting obligations under regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy. over the past decade, the european fisheries sector has lost a significant number of jobs due to the poor state of fish stocks, rising production costs, falling prices due to cheaper imports and technological advances. we call on the commission to ensure that long-term management plans are drawn up for all commercial fisheries in the union, under a decentralised management regime involving all stakeholders. scientific research in the fisheries sector is an essential tool for fisheries management, indispensable for identifying the factors influencing the development of fisheries resources, for carrying out a quantitative assessment and for developing models that make it possible to estimate the evolution of these resources, as well as for improving fishing equipment, vessels and the working and safety conditions of fishermen, complementing their knowledge and experience. we invite the commission to measure, before the end of 2013, the capacity of the european fleets, in order to determine where there is excess capacity in relation to available resources and what reductions/conversions are necessary.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, which touches on a number of important issues of fisheries in the european union. i also appreciate that the report refers to the need for a new regional fisheries management organisation in the black sea, given that the current competent body, the general fisheries commission for the mediterranean, is not an appropriate framework. it is also necessary to intensify dialogue with the black sea coastal states, in particular on the exploitation and conservation of fisheries resources.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the parliament's resolution on the reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the fisheries sector is of strategic importance for the supply of fish to the population and for the food balance of the various member states and the union, making a considerable contribution to the socio-economic well-being of coastal communities, to local development, to employment, to the maintenance and creation of upstream and downstream economic activities and to the preservation of local cultural traditions. the eu is the fourth largest producer in the world; however, it imports over 60% of the fish it consumes. i believe that the cfp must apply the precautionary approach to fisheries management and ensure the sustainable exploitation of living marine biological resources, in order to restore and maintain populations of all harvested species at levels close to those capable of ensuring maximum sustainable yield. we call on the commission to take action to adopt long-term management plans for all eu fisheries and to use the ecosystem approach as the basis for all such plans, with well-defined harvesting control objectives and rules, which will play a fundamental role in each plan.
blue-card question. – mr president, i would like to ask the advice of the distinguished speaker on a matter which is very important to us in romania and perhaps to the other countries in the european union as well. i am glad that commissioner reding will also hear this. the question is: when does the justice system become a political actor and involve itself in the political game? how can we return to a normal situation where they do not do that? give us a response to this to see how we can solve this problem. in my opinion, and not only in my opinion, this is the situation.
question for the commissioner: i would like to know whether mr swoboda has been informed that the socialists and the liberals together provided the legal framework, that the socialists and the liberals as the governing parties were also the ones who organised the referendum and that the socialists and the liberals were also the ones who then contested the result. furthermore, did you know, mr swoboda, that 7.4 million do not represent 50% of the electorate in romania? what do you think of this behavior? is that not undemocratic?
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure mrs. harms, i would like to inform you that it was not the ponta government that fired traian basescu. the president is dismissed by the parliament, by the majority of the parliament, and in the parliament of romania six political formations voted for the dismissal of traian basescu. i would like to reiterate that traian basescu was fired twice in five years, by two different governments. i think this shows that the rule of law was respected and that we were politically correct.
romania is a perfect illustration of what tocqueville called the 'tyranny of the majority'. the effect is not only national, though, even though the action of the socialist majority in bucharest has added to the economic crisis at european level a major political crisis in one member state. in fact, the events of 3 and 6 july were a watershed event, because they dramatically contrasted the question of the articulation of european and national policy. indeed, what can europeans do when a majority in a country becomes tyrannical, removing, in defiance of the constitution, the ombudsman, the heads of chambers and the head of state in just three days? how should i react when the parliament in bucharest asks the constitutional court to rule within 24 hours on the suspension of the president? what can i say when romanian mps in the majority file criminal complaints against some meps for criticism of the government at home? how should i react when romanian citizens working or studying in one of the other 26 member states are denied the right to vote? isn't it absurd for a politician to think that the electoral roll should be drawn up after consulting the citizens and not before? these were the questions that were on the minds of the european public in july and august. the commission has acted promptly in support of those institutions in romania which could have blocked the drift of the majority and we must therefore thank them. i do so on behalf of those romanian citizens who do not consider european identity to be a burden, but on the contrary, see it as an enrichment of national identity. it's not the reading that victor ponta, the romanian prime minister, does. accused of plagiarism by the university that awarded him a doctorate a decade ago, mr. ponta didn't have the courage to come here today to explain why he didn't respond to all the european commission's requests. he preferred to criticise the commission in bucharest in that nationalist and populist tone which is, as president barroso said this morning, a denial of europe. a politician like that represents the past, not the present. i therefore ask for his resignation. the president shall accept to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure our esteemed, distinguished colleague spoke about violations of the rule of law by a parliamentary majority, which i think is a contradiction in terms. i would like to remind him and our esteemed colleagues from the pdl that, no later than march 7, 2012, president basescu said in the plenary of the parliament: "if we have any guarantor of democracy in romania, it is the parliament". i want to ask the distinguished colleague what happened: in just three months after these words were spoken, the same president, along with... (speaker was interrupted)
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. unfortunately, as i said, what happened in romania shows that, indeed, a majority can mock the rule of law.
commissioner reding, i am glad you are here in the european parliament, because this is the institution that directly represents the european citizens. here if not here, where else? you have to say why the vote of 8.4 million european citizens did not count for you at all this summer; why a rule that is not valid anywhere, in any member state of the european union, was imposed by the commission on romania, and here i refer to the 50% turnout; how the decision taken by six of the seven political groups that constitute the national parliament came to be a parliamentary coup. mrs. viviane reding, i have all the respect for you but this summer you behaved exactly like an election agent of traian basescu. you were exactly what you look like today, in the orange coat you're wearing: a perfect pdl member, who unconditionally supports traian basescu. by your statements, you have brought great harm to romania, not only politically, but also economically. you have succeeded in humiliating an entire people, you have succeeded in trampling on the sovereignty of a member state of the european union and in amputating the right of a national parliament to make decisions. perhaps you can explain to us today how a referendum, that is, the popular vote the decisions of the constitutional court have made it very clear that this referendum was organized in accordance with the constitution and the laws in force became overnight coup d'état. finally, mrs reding, i want to congratulate you on setting a very dangerous precedent in the european union: you have succeeded in imposing a head of state in a member state of the european union against the will of its own people. there are still 26 member states of the european union. it is a question for colleagues in parliament, when they have an election - whether they can count on mrs reding's support, as we did this summer.
i will not consider today's debate as a debate on romania, but as a debate on the state of the union and democracy in the european union. that's what this is about, mrs. reding. it is about the principles and values that you have recalled, that romanians, and not only romanian politicians, but also romanian citizens respect. i would like to remind you of one of the fundamental obligations of leaders in the european union and its citizens - to defend democracy, cultural diversity and the organisation of public powers in the member states at national level. could you tell me, mrs. reding, in concrete terms, what constitutional provisions the suspension procedure, provided for in the constitution of the romanian state, has violated? because the constitutional court decision says very clearly that the constitutional procedures in this suspension procedure were respected and the constitutional court of romania validated the constitutional procedure. furthermore, the people validated this procedure by 7.4 million people voting to remove a president. sure, mrs. reding, in the european union maybe the peoples don't matter to some of you. for the vast majority of us in this chamber, it matters, mrs reding, because i would like to remind you of what jean monnet said: 'you will not achieve more europe by bringing the states together, but we will have to achieve more europe by bringing people together'. what happened this summer, your brutal intervention in legitimate and legal constitutional procedures in the romanian state, has only divided people. mrs. reding, as a liberal, i am for more europe. i am for a europe of diversity, i am convinced that together we will be stronger. but we will not be made stronger, ma'am, by overt political partisanship. we will never be stronger if we privilege our ideologies and political families. we will be stronger, mrs reding, when we know what cultural diversity means, when we know something about the countries we are judging, when we respect their traditions and, above all, when we respect the fundamental principles of the european union.
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure i wanted to ask mrs mathieu, i see that she knows the situation in romania so well, i wanted to ask her where she got so much detail about the fraud, the so-called fraud, the alleged fraud of the referendum votes and also whether, as mr weber said earlier, referring to some family portraits, whether the gentlemen from the pdl... (the speaker was interrupted)
we romanians joined the european union to follow the rules, to strengthen our democracy, to be free, to be responsible for our lives and to have a fair, independent, impartial justice system that investigates everyone, even the powerful, even politicians, which has never happened before. we have this right now. we thank the commission and the european parliament for the help they have given us during the pre-integration period and for the help they have given us since. the prosecutors and judges who file cases against politicians today are the ones who are lauded, the ones who have received awards in every european commission report on the cooperation and verification mechanism. these guys don't do political files, they investigate whoever's in power. i insist on this because, in reality, what happened in romania was to stop these investigations and to take justice captive in the court of political parties. that's why it's so important that we get back to that normalcy. as we speak, prosecutors and judges are investigating fraudulent referenda following complaints. there are over 500 files. i just want to give you some figures: in one of the files there are allegations of 1.5 million stolen votes in the referendum, and a few days ago, the chief prosecutor of the national anti-corruption directorate said that in the checked sections, there were signs and evidence of fraud between 5-10-15%. so, we need to close these files, we need to keep these prosecutors, because they're trying to get fired, and we need to see the outcome of these investigations. voter fraud is the worst form of corruption because it's against the people. the president shall accept to answer a question put under the 'blue card' procedure (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
question referred under the 'blue card' procedure madam vice president reding, what you have just heard is hallucinatory evidence of the intervention of a european parliamentarian in the affairs of justice in my country. i'm asking deputy macovei how she knows this data, since it's a case under investigation. you may not know, but on may 22nd, the superior council of magistracy charged ms. macovei with interfering in a prosecutor's case and considered this "interference in the affairs of justice and undermining"... (speaker was interrupted)
answer to a question asked under the 'blue card' procedure. the figure of 1.5 million in one case and, if you've given me the opportunity, it's the psd general secretary. it's from the press, and the figure of up to 15% fraud is from the statements of the chief prosecutor they want to fire. but i repeat: justice is very important for the european union, because we are together in a country, in a union where we must cooperate. if there is no trust in the romanian justice system ... (speaker was interrupted)
i would like to point out first of all that during the referendum, on the day of the referendum and in the period immediately following, there was no complaint from the pdl regarding the allegations of theft. it's only three weeks since these charges came, but it's clear, despite what has been said here, that the procedure for suspending the president of romania respected the constitution and the decisions of the constitutional court, as well as the 2007 initiative. but now, unfortunately, the european commission has positioned itself as a political ally of president basescu and not as a neutral arbiter in an electoral process, in an internal political dispute, blaming both the government and the democratically elected parliament from the start. i did not see you, commissioner, at the debate on the defence of democracy in hungary, but i see that you now want to draw an unjustified parallel between these two countries. you ignored for years the signs of the abuses of the pdl government. you mentioned two emergency orders of the ponta government, without saying a word about the hundreds of emergency orders issued abusive by the pdl government. your double standard for romania's domestic political forces is so obvious, it's no wonder that romanians' trust in the european union has dropped by ten percent in just one month this summer. (speaker was interrupted)
i'm a member of the rmdsz, the romanian hungarian democratic union. in romania, for the past 22 years, this association has not changed its name or its program. we didn't even participate in the referendum. i don't want to get into this debate, but in the context of the rule of law and the independence of the judiciary, i would like to draw attention to the issue of the restitution of church and private property confiscated through nationalizations. the miko college is older than romania itself. they've been re-established! we have punished him for it, and the prime minister has asked the supreme judicial council to consider whether the protest and what was said there could be considered pressure on the judiciary. many of us, including minorities, are asking what the solution is in the case of romania. the solution is to take the copenhagen criteria into account after accession.
mr president, this union is based on principles and values and i have always asked the commission to defend them. but this must be done in good faith and based on real facts, not on mere allegations. in particular, vice-president reding, you overreacted and made some false accusations simply ignoring part of the truth. were you aware that the procedures were entirely supervised by the constitutional court, which in fact even underlined a couple of situations were it considered the president was in breach of the constitution? let me tell you that now president băsescu has returned to office without any shred of legitimacy. he lost the legitimacy because i, together with another 7 million romanian citizens, sanctioned him for his unconstitutional behaviour and voted for his dismissal.
mr president, congratulations to mrs reding. you are right and i appreciate your report. i love my country and i am really worried. i am not involved in this ridiculous quarrel. i do not agree either with mr băsescu, or with mr ponta, but it is obvious that in romania, all the elections are stalled. trust me, because i was one of the finalists of the presidential elections in 2000. but the mafia reversed the results. another great fraud is being prepared today for the general elections of 9 december and the machine of this robbery is created by the secret services and the cia. romania is an american colony. what democracy, what human rights? please, will you help us with international observation of these elections?
in writing. commissioner, you have stated that there has been a coup d'état or a parliamentary coup in romania. leaving aside the absurdity of a situation in which a democratically elected parliament in an eu country would end up committing a coup or a coup d'état, since it is itself the most democratic form of state existence, i turn to you as the commissioner who is the patron of european justice and ask you: what are you basing your statements on? do you know that one of the basic principles of world justice is audiatur et altera pars, that is, the other party should be heard whenever a decision is being prepared? if so, and i have no doubt that it is, why are your conclusions identical to those of only one party, namely president basescu? every claim must be proved, says another principle of law. what evidence did you check to create your conviction of a coup d'etat? are you prepared to take on the rise of anti-european sentiment in romania after the romanians took note of your statements? the truth is that in romania, 7.5 million romanians have dealt a blow, not to the state, but to an undemocratic president.
in writing. romania is not just a market for the big eu states. romania has earned the right to be treated non-discriminatorily, and romanian citizens demand to be treated the same as a luxembourg or danish citizen. in my country there is a risk of an anti-european current, fuelled by the partisan attitudes of some european officials. seven and a half million romanian citizens are fed up with traian basescu's abuses. today's discussion must be seen in the broader context of the legitimacy of the european union. when a european commissioner makes judgments about the internal politics of a member state without checking the veracity of the information on which he is basing his intervention, the union as a whole faces a serious problem. i would like to draw commissioner reding's attention to her sources of information within the pdl. monica macovei speaks hypocritically about the romanian government's interference in justice, in the context in which the superior council of magistracy decided that it had exerted pressure on a romanian prosecutor charged with solving a criminal case.
in writing. at a time when all political leaders should be focusing on the recovery of the economies of the member states, here, more than 4 months after the installation of the socialist-liberal government in romania, economic measures are practically non-existent. moreover, serious violations of parliamentary regulations and attempts to obstruct justice have led to negative effects on the future of the country. the excessive depreciation of the national currency, the decline of foreign investment, the rise of bank interest rates, the decline of jobs and the endangerment of romania's integration into the schengen area are just some of the problems caused by this incompetent governance. i sincerely regret the unfortunate situation in which the european socialists and liberals now find themselves. on the one hand, they know about the serious violations of the rule of law committed by the usl government, and on the other hand, they wonder whether it is right or not to embarrass their colleagues from the same political family, whom they would like to teach the alphabet of democracy.
in writing. president barroso concluded today's 'state of the nation' speech by endorsing parliamentary democracy at both national and european level and calling for the role of both the european parliament and national parliaments to be strengthened. article 4 of the treaty on european union states that the union shall respect the equality of member states before the treaties and their national identities, which are inherent in their fundamental political and constitutional structures. i consider that the preparation and transmission by the european commission to the romanian government of the list of 11 requirements, some of which exceed the commission's competence and violate the sovereignty and subsidiarity of a member state, constitutes a breach of the mandate that the european commission received by the vote of the european parliament. president barroso also spoke today of a contract of trust between the member states and the european institutions. i believe that this partnership must be based on mutual respect, cooperation and, above all, respect for the role, responsibilities and limits of the mandate of each institution at both national and european level. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the establishment of a european union agency for fundamental rights. i consider this a move directed against romanian citizens.
in writing. the hungarian community in romania, which, with its size of 1.5 million citizens, is the largest minority community in the eu, is firmly attached to european principles and values in the organisation and functioning of the rule of law. the udmr, the legitimate representative of this community, has been going through a difficult period in recent months, like the other political forces in romania. the split in society, the suspension of the romanian president, the institutional and political crisis have put us in front of difficult decisions. in addition to the general crisis, my community has also faced a blow to one of our specific desires, which results from our history and traditions: the restitution to the community of the property wrongfully confiscated by the communist regime. almost 30 000 people protested on 1 september in st. george against the abusive decision to renationalize the building of the székely mikó high school, legally returned in 2002 to the reformed church in ardeal. this decision completely ignored the principles of the rule of law and called into question the guarantee of the property rights of hungarian historical communities and churches. the lasting solution to the institutional conflicts in romania, which reached a peak this summer, and the guarantee of property rights can only be achieved through a genuine reform of the judiciary and a long-delayed constitutional reform.
i would also like to recall that the european parliament has stressed, since the summer of 2010 and on several occasions, the imperative of creating an integrated banking supervision mechanism. the regulations in this area are insufficient, and citizens have paid the excessive costs of rescuing institutions from bankruptcy, turning private debts into public debts. two years later, the council finally calls for a banking union. i believe that the european union is today paying the price of late decisions and insufficiently transparent procedures. in a union where anti-european sentiment is growing and where citizens want concrete solutions, i hope that we will finally learn our lesson and live up to the expectations of those we represent.
we are currently facing the need for better monitoring of european banks in the euro area, and the single supervisory mechanism could help to achieve this. however, the granting of greater power to the european central bank may create imbalances between banks in the euro area and those outside. at the same time, there are still some concerns about competition between large and local banks. i therefore believe that an appropriate balance needs to be found in order to reduce the vulnerability faced by this sector. in this context, commissioner, i believe that there is a need for clarification of the commission's intentions with regard to future legislative proposals. it is also important to know whether the treaties are to be amended to achieve the objectives in this area.
the commission, together with the member states, must ensure that the union has access to diverse energy sources so that european citizens can enjoy uninterrupted access to affordable energy. the proper functioning of the internal energy market contributes to the security of energy supply of the european union, which is essential for the economic and social development of the european union and for its competitiveness. in view of the need to optimise the functioning of the internal energy market, this decision establishes a mechanism for the exchange of information between member states and the commission on intergovernmental agreements in the field of energy. i believe that the commission should provide member states with a guide to the approach to the negotiations in order to ensure compliance with union law, solidarity between member states and the guarantee of energy supply. it is also important that, at the request of a member state, the commission provides support and technical assistance in the process of negotiating and concluding intergovernmental agreements with third countries in the field of energy.
europe is currently dependent on energy imports, for which it pays some eur 400 billion a year. to reduce vulnerabilities and increase energy security, greater diversity of sources and supply networks is needed. at the same time, improvements in energy security help to strengthen the union's role in foreign policy. as for romania, my country has an advantage both from its geographical and geopolitical position, because the black sea has a major potential in achieving european energy security, representing a gateway to the union's regional economic and political bloc. my country supports major projects, like the nabucco pipeline. at the same time, it attaches particular importance to the interconnection of the national electricity system with similar systems in neighbouring states.
the european union has competitive advantages over other global competitors in several areas. producing and marketing high-quality agricultural products is one of them. with the present proposal, i believe that european farmers will have additional means to communicate essential details of the products they buy to consumers. the proposal will also improve the functioning of national and private certification systems. for romanian farmers and producers, this will have a significant impact. the establishment of a system of traditional specialities guaranteed will stimulate traditional production methods and recipes. currently, many romanian producers do not have the opportunity to promote their recipes and products that offer added value. last but not least, i believe that simplifying marketing standards and mentioning the place of agricultural origin on labels will have a positive impact on european consumers.
i would like to welcome in particular two proposals, amendments nos 73 and 75, which i consider particularly important. the first amendment concerns the introduction of a new term, 'mountain product', for products whose raw materials come from mountain areas. the second amendment concerns the possibility of introducing a new labelling system for local farms and direct selling activities to help producers in the process of marketing products locally. the introduction of this label depends on a future study by the commission, which i hope we will have soon. i believe that the two new entries could bring important benefits to producers, who will find it easier to find their niche in the market in the face of competition from large producers. they will also benefit consumers who want to buy food produced in their region through the efforts of farmers in the vicinity of their cities. alongside the future support measures provided for by the reform of the european agricultural policy, the encouragement of the two labels would be an important support for small and medium-sized producers.
i welcome the commission's proposal to provide increased support for promoting access to finance. to this end, venture capital funds play a particularly important role in the economy, fostering growth and job creation. moreover, the funds stimulate the creation and expansion of innovative enterprises, thus supporting innovation and competitiveness. they address the challenges facing most member states today. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of creating a common regulatory framework as soon as possible. this will reduce obstacles to the functioning of the single market and eliminate distortions of competition. european venture capital funds make a considerable contribution to promoting access to finance for smes.
unfortunately, we are living in a time when the primary objective of companies that are going into business is to make immediate and substantial profits. the regulation of european social entrepreneurship funds is a tremendous opportunity for those entrepreneurs whose main objective is to generate social outcomes, which unfortunately have become less and less targeted in recent times. i am concerned, however, that there is a risk that the levers highlighted in the report, not sufficiently explained in detail, may be used for purposes not indicated. i therefore believe that we must now concentrate our efforts on achieving as complete a regulation as possible, providing specific protection and control rules, in order to eliminate completely the possibility of misuse of these funds with enormous potential for social progress.
despite the extraordinary wealth of europe's cultural heritage, some of the works are not used, being kept in archives and libraries due to their status as orphan works. through copyright, innovation, investment and production are stimulated, which is the foundation of the creative sector. thanks to the new legislation, digitisation could in future allow online access to these works throughout europe and even beyond. we are talking about books, newspapers, publications, films, musicals and tv productions whose authors cannot be identified and which will be legally accessible under the framework created by the current proposal for a directive. personally, i support allowing cultural and educational institutions to use orphan works for their own purposes. in the future, it is important to reduce the number of orphan works by establishing clear criteria for identifying and locating the authors of these works, so that they can enjoy the rights to which they are entitled.
copyright is the economic foundation of the creative industries, as it stimulates innovation, creative activity, investment and production. the digitisation and dissemination of works therefore constitute a method of protecting europe's cultural heritage. copyright is an important means of ensuring that activities in the creative sector are rewarded. copyright holders should be entitled to cancel the orphan work status of a work when they claim rights in the work or other subject matter. copyright holders who revoke the orphan work status of a work should be granted appropriate compensation for the use of their works or other subject matter protected under this directive, to be determined by the member state in which the body using the orphan work is established. member states should be free to determine the circumstances in which such compensation is granted, including the time at which the payment is made.
in writing. the problem with orphan works is that any lawful use of the work requires the consent of the copyright holder. if the author cannot be found and consent cannot be obtained, then the work cannot be used. as protection is extremely long (author's life + 70 years) and the number of published works is increasing, these cases are becoming more common. aside from the fact that, in general, works are actually used more often without having asked for permission, i believe that, from a legal point of view, there is a problem that needs to be solved.
member of the commission. − madam president, thank you for the opportunity to comment on parliament’s draft report on the 18th report on better legislation. first, allow me to thank the committee on legal affairs for its work in preparing this report. it is a welcome contribution to the smart regulation agenda, which the report acknowledges as a shared responsibility. it also highlights some very important issues concerning relations with national parliaments. the commission will respond more formally to the report in due course but, for now, i would like to make a few general remarks on the smart regulation agenda, which remains a key priority for the commission. first, your report correctly indicates that impact assessment is a core element of smart regulation. the european court of auditors and other independent studies found that the commission’s impact assessment system compares favourably to other systems in the european union. the commission strives to continuously improve its impact assessment system, for instance by providing services with further operational guidance on the assessment of specific impacts such as sector competitiveness, fundamental rights or smes. the president has reinforced the role of the impact assessment board so that, in principle, a positive opinion from the iab is needed before a proposal can be put forward for a commission decision. the commission welcomes parliament’s initiative in setting up an impact assessment directorate and, in particular, the renewed commitment of parliament to carry out impact assessments prior to the adoption of substantive amendments. the commission is willing to exchange views, share methodology and background to its assessments with the parliament, as already agreed in the common approach to impact assessments. we should all bear in mind, of course, that an impact assessment is not an end in itself. it should lead to better policy at the end of the decision-making process and is a joint responsibility. your report rightly places considerable emphasis on the need to minimise regulatory burdens for business. the commission has proposed measures to reduce the administrative burden by 33%. we invite parliament and the council to approve pending proposals rapidly to bridge the small remaining gap and so ensure that we reach the 25% reduction target by the end of the year. we consider that all future legislative proposals should be based on the premise that micro-enterprises, in particular, should be excluded from the scope of the proposed legislation, unless the proportionality of their being covered can be demonstrated. when they need to be covered, we should seek to find adapted solutions and lighter regimes for both micros and smes, and their impact should be analysed as an integral part of the impact assessment process. we are also strengthening the implementation of the commission ex-post evaluation policy. now all significant proposals must, in principle, be based on an evaluation of what is already in place. we are working on further developments to improve the way we do this. we are also focused on further improving implementation and consultation. the commission will produce a scoreboard to show that proposals it has produced are having a significant impact on smaller business, to show what changes parliament and council adopt in the legislative procedure and how member states implement the adopted regulatory measure, identifying best practice and any ‘gold plating’. the scoreboard will be updated on a yearly basis. a central element of the commission’s approach is a strengthening of the involvement and consultation of small businesses in better law-making. conferences are already being held in member states with small businesses and an eu-wide consultation process has been launched to identify the ‘top ten’ burdensome eu regulatory measures for review. we have also strengthened the voice of stakeholders, by extending the minimum period for public consultation from 8 weeks to 12 weeks, as of the beginning of this year. the commission has also initiated a review of its consultation policy. furthermore, a follow up to the 2010 smart regulation communication, taking stock of the progress made and drawing lessons from experience, is planned for adoption around the end of this year. a 12-week public consultation was launched on 27 june. your report emphasises the importance of respect for the principle of subsidiarity when drawing up legislative proposals and stresses the importance of the participation of regional parliaments with legislative powers in this process. subsidiarity issues are key aspects taken into account by the commission when carrying out its impact assessments and on which the impact assessment board focuses when scrutinising the quality of impact assessments. the commission is fully committed to ensuring that in future subsidiarity justifications are better reflected in the explanatory memorandum of its proposals. concerning relations with national parliaments, let me reassure you that the commission pays very close attention to the work of regional parliaments and even receives opinions directly from some of them. after all, we regularly encourage national parliaments to consult regional parliaments with legislative powers, where appropriate, in the process of subsidiarity scrutiny, as set out in the treaty. the commission is committed to making progress on smart regulation and looks forward to working with parliament, the council and the member states to ensure effective delivery as a joint responsibility.
on behalf of the epp group. the concepts of subsidiarity and proportionality are fundamental elements of the policy-making process within the eu institutions. the subsidiarity control mechanism available to national parliaments helps to increase the transparency of the process. most of the commission's proposals were adopted by national parliaments without any significant discussion on subsidiarity. the only real debates on how to interpret subsidiarity have been between the european parliament and the council, thus leading to a proper balance between the responsibilities of the eu and those of the member states. in practice, it can be seen that the implementation of community legislation remains a problem at national level and i believe that better communication between national parliaments and the european parliament could lead to improvements. the report also addresses a number of issues of particular importance to the european parliament, including the need to revise the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the adoption of legislation on smes and, not least, further improvements to better law-making. as the shadow rapporteur of the epp, i would point out that there was no disagreement between the main political groups in the committee on legal affairs, and a compromise was reached which will help to clarify the reversal of the burden of proof for certain categories of undertakings, for which i thank the main report.
i would like to begin by stressing the need for european legislation to be clear, simple, easy to understand and accessible to all. i therefore welcome the stronger involvement of national parliaments in the european legislative process, in particular with regard to legislative proposals on control based on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality. however, i regret that only 16% of the opinions received from national parliaments in 2010 raised subsidiarity concerns. welcomes the first use of the 'yellow card' procedure in may 2012 by adopting reasoned opinions against the commission's proposal for a council regulation on the exercise of the right to engage in collective activities in the framework of the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services. i welcome the introduction of the ipex website, which can act as a catalyst for further improvements and greater involvement in the functioning of the subsidiarity control mechanism. i believe, however, that national parliaments should organise public debates on european legislative proposals. only in this way will member states, citizens, the administration and, above all, industry be able to prepare for the proper implementation of european legislation.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is very exhilarating to see the commitment being shown by this parliament to moving forward on smart regulation. this is indeed a very important objective to have in view. i must emphasise that the commission is already tackling the areas that have been mentioned in the report, especially in relation to subsidarity issues, where the commission has been very active in facilitating national parliament subsidarity checks. also the commission wants to focus on delivery of smart regulation by preparing high-quality impact assessments, systematically carrying out ex-post evaluations, progressing further on our innovative fitness checks, continuing to simplify and reduce the administrative burden, with a particular focus on the regulatory burden on micro- and small enterprises, and improving further our consultation process.
mr president, i would like to thank all those who signed written declaration 20. key demands in the written declaration include a call to the council and the commission to encourage scientific collaboration on multiple sclerosis and to promote equal access to treatment as well as flexible employment policies. adoption of the declaration will give important support to the implementation of specialised training for nurses. the written declaration is also a strong and intensive statement designed to encourage debate and action, within parliament and other institutions, on chronic diseases such as multiple sclerosis. once again, many thanks to everyone.
i voted in favour of this report, which i consider to be very important, especially in the present situation, because legislative techniques in the european union have been and will be of great importance. however, i cannot help but note a number of delays which the commission has had in applying articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on delegated acts and consultation of national parliaments. in the context of the desire for more europe, i believe that we need more legislative coherence and more active consultation of national parliaments, through mechanisms that make this consultation a real one, not a formal one, as it is now.
i voted in favour of this report, which i consider very important because it imposes a regulation on the european social entrepreneurship fund for the first time. following the commission's statement launching this fund in the innovation project, i believe that it is time, given the social vulnerabilities in the european union, for this fund to be addressed to practically everyone, not only to vulnerable, excluded, socially disadvantaged people, but also to other people. but i think that the regulation should have encouraged crossborder cooperation in the use of the fund and, as regards the rules on the use of profits, they should have been much clearer because, in the spirit of social investment of social enterprise, i think that profits should be reinvested for the same purpose as the initial capital.
i think i expected the council to have a different view and to try to block this dossier, but this dossier gives us the opportunity to have a discussion on venture capital funds and, in particular, on the offshore registration of european companies. i think it's time, in the context of the eu 2020 strategy, in terms of the sme chapter, to try to have a very clear, european-type framework and a method of supervision of venture funds, because they explain, if you will, the situation in terms of the financial market of the european union. i think it is unacceptable and we will have to look at the situation of offshore companies, their registration, because otherwise we live in a perfect pharisaism, a pharisaism which asks us to help our member states, while the big profits and the huge sums of money in europe are in these offshore funds.
mr president, i consider that a regulation on the european venture capital funds is of paramount importance in a union which has the ambition of becoming the most innovative economy in the world. this regulation contributes to that end. by laying down uniform rules, it is instrumental for the good functioning of the internal market. this regulation draws a proportional balance between the needs of our economies and macroeconomic prudence. more than ever, we need simpler rules in order to support innovative ideas and daring start-ups. by voting in favour, i express my support for everyone in the eu who has viable projects but who does not necessarily have the funds to finance them readily available in their member state. this is especially true in the case of the new member states, where there is no lack of bright ideas whilst the funds are not always within reach.
i welcomed and voted for this resolution of the european parliament, one of many resolutions adopted in this chamber, but i would like to stress that, unfortunately, both the international community and the european union are dancing, but they are not making any progress on the syrian issue. we all agree that this is a civil war, we all try to propose solutions, and the no-fly zone principle may be a solution, but nobody, in reality, is able to do anything because the division in the interests of the great powers over syria is one that is a certainty. i regret that this resolution does not take into account the fact that a number of groups associated with terrorist groups, namely hezbollah, which is present in syria and which supports the syrian troops of president assad, have not been taken into account as an amendment, because, due to games and partial support, some of us refuse to see the reality of a country that can no longer wait.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider it necessary to renew the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and brazil. it is in the interest of the european union that this agreement be renewed in order to further facilitate cooperation with brazil in areas of common interest to the benefit of both parties. the economic and technological development of brazil in recent years is another reason why the union should have extended this agreement. in view of the intention of both parties to renew this agreement, i consider that there are no other impediments which could delay this extension. the european union should continue to pursue the conclusion of such agreements with third countries. those key partners for the union that, depending on the field of interest, could bring added value should be identified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a council decision on the renewal of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the eu and the federative republic of brazil. the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation with brazil entered into force in 2007 for an initial period of five years and is now being renewed by mutual agreement between the parties for a further period of five years. the agreement shall be based on the principles of mutual benefit, common access to each other's programmes and activities in relation to the subject matter of the agreement, non-discrimination, effective protection of intellectual property and equitable distribution of intellectual property rights. the renewal of this agreement will allow for the accumulation of a greater volume of scientific knowledge, leading to market access opportunities. it is in the eu's interest that this agreement be renewed so as to further facilitate cooperation with brazil in priority scientific and technical areas of common interest that bring benefits to both parties. this decision will allow both brazil and the union to obtain mutual benefits as a result of scientific and technical progress achieved through research cooperation within their specific research programmes. the decision will allow for the exchange of specific knowledge and the transfer of know-how to the benefit of the scientific community, industry and citizens.
in writing. - i voted for this report because the european union's cooperation with its neighbouring countries is of particular importance. the conclusion of the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation would be in the mutual interests of the union and algeria, as it would allow the continuation and intensification of cooperation in this field with algeria. scientific research is a key element in building a knowledge-based society and reducing unemployment in a context of economic openness. algeria must remain an important partner of the union and cooperation with it could be extended to other areas. by concluding this agreement, the eu could open up the european research area to third countries. the union's objective must remain the promotion of technological progress within its borders, but also in the immediate vicinity of them.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european union and the people's democratic republic of algeria. the eu and algeria carry out joint research, technological development and demonstration activities in various areas of common interest and it is in the interest of both parties that each of them participate in the research and development activities of the other on a reciprocal basis. cooperation activities shall be conducted on the basis of the following principles: promotion of the knowledge-based society; reciprocal access to activities covered by each party's research programmes and projects; timely exchange of information that can facilitate cooperation activities; appropriate allocation and protection of intellectual property rights; participation and funding in accordance with the parties' applicable laws and administrative acts. this cooperation will contribute to both the development and competitiveness of algeria and to the establishment of closer links between the two parties in the interest of the eu. the agreement on scientific and technological cooperation is the most appropriate instrument for strengthening cooperation and algeria's participation in the framework programme and for intensifying dialogue in the field of science and technology.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that, for parliament to work as effectively as possible, it is essential that its members have access to relevant information. unrestricted access for members at eu confidential level is one of the main points of interest of this agreement. another important aspect is the granting of access to classified information to members and parliament staff, in accordance with the ep's security rules. i also welcome the fact that access to documents will be granted, depending on the case, to the rapporteurs, the alternate rapporteurs or all the committee members. this will ensure that decision-makers at the european parliament can make the best decisions with all the information they need. parliament will cope with these new procedural rigors by being administratively prepared to handle this type of information.
in writing. − i support the need for closer and fairer interinstitutional cooperation between the european parliament and the council. the lisbon treaty extended the powers of the parliament, making it a co-legislator with the council, and in particular increased its powers in the field of international agreements. despite the council's repeated attempts to disapply the treaty provisions in this respect, the council's obligation to inform parliament, which is explicitly mentioned in article 218 (10) of the treaty, must be respected, according to which parliament is immediately and fully informed at all stages of the procedure. we call on the council to be more open to ensure access to classified information on matters other than those in the field of the common foreign and security policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the conclusion of an interinstitutional agreement between the european parliament and the council on the transmission and processing by the european parliament of classified information held by the council on matters other than those covered by the common foreign and security policy. transparency and access to all relevant documents and information are the basis and mandatory precondition of democracy and in particular of the european parliament's ability to work in the service of the citizens, as provided for in the treaties. the treaty of lisbon reinforces the requirements of transparency and the rights of citizens to participate in the union's decision-making process, and limitations on the right of parliament and its members to share information relevant to public opinion must be made in clearly defined and justified exceptional cases. rules on the classification and declassification of union documents should be laid down by regulations adopted by the european parliament and the council. we consider the agreement on the transmission to the european parliament and the processing by the european parliament of classified information held by the council on matters other than those covered by the common foreign and security policy to be an indispensable instrument enabling the parliament to exercise its powers and functions to the full.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because european legislation must be an added value. we need to ensure that the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality are respected when the commission launches new proposals. these two principles should be given greater weight in the impact assessments carried out by the commission. on the other hand, there is a need for greater involvement of national parliaments in the verification of compliance with the two principles. although 211 opinions were received from national parliaments in 2010, only 34 of them raised subsidiarity concerns. the 'yellow card' procedure was used in 2012 for the first time since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is also important that the sme test analyses in as much detail as possible the impact of legislative proposals on this category of enterprises.
in writing. − most of the commission's proposals were adopted by national parliaments without any significant discussion on subsidiarity. the only real debates on how to interpret subsidiarity have been between the european parliament and the council, thus leading to a proper balance between the responsibilities of the eu and those of the member states. in practice, it can be seen that the implementation of community legislation remains a problem at national level and i believe that better communication between national parliaments and the european parliament could lead to improvements. the report is also important because it addresses a number of issues of particular interest to the european parliament, among which i would like to mention the need to revise the interinstitutional agreement on better law-making, the adoption of legislation for smes and, not least, further improvements for better law-making.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the 18th report on better lawmaking applying the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality (2010). smart regulation is an attempt to strengthen efforts to better legislate, simplify community law and reduce administrative and regulatory burdens, and to move towards good governance based on clear fact-based decision-making. we welcome the commission's communication on minimising the regulatory burden on smes and consider it essential that the commission follows the 'think small first' principle in preparing legislation and in seeking to introduce lighter regimes and exemptions for smaller companies. we also invite national parliaments, in accordance with the protocol on subsidiarity, to consult regional parliaments with legislative powers and we invite the commission to pay attention, in the monitoring of the principle of subsidiarity and in particular in its annual reports on the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality, to the role of regional parliaments with legislative powers. we underline the importance of these measures as key elements for economic growth in the eu and call on the commission to include in its 2013 work programme a programme addressing the need to reduce the overall regulatory burden.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the atlantic area is marked by several defining features which require political responses at european level. a macro-regional strategy is needed to boost the atlantic space through a common approach. the measures i am considering include the creation of a permanent structure for maritime spatial planning in the atlantic area. local, regional and cross-border partnerships to improve the prevention and risk management capabilities in the atlantic for maritime and land-based accidents would also be appropriate. last but not least, it is essential to improve connections between the atlantic regions and the rest of europe through investment in multimodal transport infrastructure. the commission should consider the possibility of developing similar macro-regional strategies in other regions where such a measure would lead to sustainable and sustainable economic growth.
in writing. − the atlantic strategy must take the form of a macro-regional strategy, in order to facilitate synergies between the different instruments and levels of action involved in spatial planning policies. the basis for this action plan will be the structural funds and the maritime policy. i believe that the strategy will have to work towards a better use of existing european funding without creating new budgetary instruments. i also believe that for the next programming period of the structural funds, measures should be introduced to ensure that operational programmes are more closely aligned with the relevant priorities of the macro-regional strategies.
in writing. − the european union's cohesion policy can and must make an important contribution to the atlantic area, to complement the maritime aspects of the strategy in this area. it is therefore important to ensure the protection of the ecological balance and biodiversity in the region, and to ensure close cooperation between the coastal states in the prevention and management of risks in the atlantic, in particular in the event of accidents, natural disasters and criminal activities, including in the area of security, maritime surveillance and civil protection.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the atlantic cohesion policy, as a future strategy for the atlantic is essential to improve access to the atlantic regions. it should focus on connecting the atlantic region to the european continent, interconnecting transport, energy and communications networks, and developing urban and rural areas. we believe that the atlantic highways improve trade relations, stimulate economic activity in ports, encourage tourism and contribute to reducing co2 emissions. marine renewable energy is also a future industrial supply chain, enabling the eu to combat climate change and energy dependence, increase energy sustainability in atlantic regions and achieve the europe 2020 goals. the strategy must include an ambitious social component to promote the training and access of young people to maritime-specific jobs, thus contributing to improving the quality of life in these areas. we stress the need to increase the volume, efficiency and competitiveness of short sea shipping in the atlantic ocean as an innovative and environmentally friendly way of improving and diversifying trans-european transport networks, encouraging the activity of small and peripheral ports and contributing to the reduction of road congestion and emissions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the amendment of the regulation will lead to an acceleration in the pace of negotiations. the commission proposal aims to eliminate incompatibilities between the special tariff concessions for african, caribbean and pacific countries which are not yet able to apply the economic partnership agreements. this will encourage the countries concerned to ratify their commitments as soon as possible. i submit that the proposal is to eliminate concessions to countries which no longer comply with the rules of this regulation. countries like botswana and namibia can no longer benefit from the same treatment as before. at the same time, i would point out that the conclusion of the negotiations must take account of the interests of both sides and that the different levels of development in each country must be taken into account in the process.
in writing. - i voted for amendments nos 2 and 3, which call for greater transparency in future energy agreements to be negotiated or being negotiated between member states and third countries. this could contribute to coherence between member states, compliance with union law and the security of energy supply of the union. to that end, the commission should be kept regularly informed of the negotiations in progress. i voted for amendments nos 4 and 5, which provide that a member state or the commission may request the commission to take part in the negotiations as an observer. where the commission participates in the negotiations as an observer, it may provide assistance to the negotiating member state on how to avoid an incompatibility between the negotiated intergovernmental agreement and union law.
in writing. − i support the adoption of the proposal for a regulation on quality schemes for agricultural products, as it aims to simplify and at the same time develop existing quality schemes. this regulation aims to improve the protection of designations of origin and geographical indications so that farmers and producers can obtain a fair return for the quality of the products, while providing clear information on products with specific characteristics linked to their geographical origin, which enables consumers to make more informed purchasing decisions. as a result, the diversity and quality of the european union's agricultural production will continue to be protected, preserving both important competitive advantages for farmers and specific elements of the union's cultural and gastronomic heritage.
in writing. − food quality and safety is based on the efforts of all those involved in the complex chain that includes agricultural production, processing, transport and consumption. various procedures and controls are required along the food chain to ensure that food reaching the consumer's table is edible and that the risk of contamination is minimised. this will make the population healthier, because of the benefits of safe and healthy food. yet, there is no such thing as zero risk in food, and we must be aware that the best laws and control systems cannot fully protect us from those who have bad intentions. the best way to practice food safety is to be well-informed about the basic principles of producing and handling food safely in our own homes.
in writing. − market requirements are diverse and increasingly numerous. in the european union, the most important issues are food hygiene and safety, health and nutritional value, and certain societal requirements. consumers are also increasingly aware of agriculture's contribution to sustainability, climate change, food security, biodiversity, animal welfare and water scarcity. in the face of these new commercial challenges, the european farmer's main asset is quality. the european union has the quality advantage, and this is due to a very high level of safety, ensured by legislation along the entire food chain, to which farmers and producers have contributed. there are, however, a few aspects that can enhance the quality. i believe that the european union has a duty to promote quality products, but also to act in favour of their protection at international level. in this context, i believe that stricter controls should be applied to organic products from third countries, so as to ensure fair competition between european and third country organic products.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, given its importance for european farmers and for member states' exports. i also voted in favour of amendments nos 73 and 75 concerning the introduction of new terms - mountain product and local product. i believe that the two new listings would bring important benefits to producers, who will find it easier to find their niche in the market, in the face of competition from large producers. they will also benefit consumers who want to buy food produced in the region where they live.
in writing. − i voted in favour of an agreement at first reading between the european parliament and the council on the regulation on the quality of agricultural products. i am glad that parliament has proposed support for local food processing, but also for the direct sale of agricultural products. i also welcome the efforts made by my colleagues in negotiations with the two institutions to include optional quality claims for products from mountain areas. i think that by using these quotes, many, many farmers in the mountainous areas could make better use of their products.
in writing. - i voted for the report on quality systems for agricultural products. the agricultural sector is an important part of the economy, where production costs are high. i believe that quality systems can complement and contribute to rural development policy, but also to market and income support policies applied under the common agricultural policy (cap), especially in regions where the agricultural sector has a larger economic weight and, above all, in disadvantaged regions. the use of quality schemes for producers, whereby they are rewarded for their efforts to produce a diversified range of quality products, can be beneficial for the rural economy, especially in less-favoured areas, in mountain areas and in the outermost regions. in order to avoid creating conditions of unfair competition, all producers, including those from a third country, should be able to use a registered name of a traditional speciality guaranteed, provided that the product in question complies with the requirements of the relevant specification and that the producer is supervised by means of a system of controls. i consider that, in order to facilitate the provision of information to the public, it is necessary to ensure access to the register of protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications.
in writing. − at eu level, social enterprises are driving change by providing innovative solutions to social problems. due to their contribution to addressing the social consequences of the financial crisis, they should be supported by adequate and properly regulated investment funds across the union. it is therefore necessary to establish an appropriate legal framework providing for uniform rules applicable to the different types of investment funds eligible for the status of 'european social entrepreneurship fund', thereby enhancing the confidence of investors wishing to operate across the union. in the absence of such a common framework, there is a risk that divergent measures would be adopted at national level by the member states, which would have a negative impact on the internal market and create obstacles to its proper functioning. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that social objectives are playing an increasingly important role for investors, alongside financial ones. in this context, the creation of a european social investment sector and the establishment of a legal framework are necessary steps. i believe that the adoption of the regulation will increase investor confidence in those funds. at the same time, it is welcome because it will reduce costs and simplify administrative formalities. confidence will also be enhanced by the existence of uniform criteria and rules applicable to european social entrepreneurship funds. i would point out that there is a need for effective enforcement. this will ensure that the regulation is coherent and can be applied properly. in this connection, i would stress the importance of cooperation between the competent authorities of the member states.
in writing. − social enterprises are companies that have a positive social impact and are more focused on social objectives than profit maximisation. the sector already represents 10% of all european companies and employs over 11 million people in europe. although these companies often receive public support, private investment through funds that invest in social entrepreneurship remains vital to their development. however, these specialised social investment funds are rare or not large enough. i would like to draw attention to the fact that the rules applicable to social investment funds differ from one member state to another and are often burdensome and complex. for this reason, i believe that the new proposals will simplify the rules.
in writing. − investments in the european social entrepreneurship fund will be beneficial for the european union in the current period, especially if the application of methods that are as transparent as possible regarding the policy and objectives of these investments is encouraged. it is essential that their primary objective is not profit but social outcomes, i.e. the provision of services to vulnerable or marginalised people. this will contribute to the fight against poverty in the member states, which is one of the union's objectives.
in writing. − i expressed my support for this initiative and for the text that was agreed between the european parliament and the council. my position is underlined by my belief that we in europe should foster the development of undertakings that are committed to tackling important issues such as, for instance, ensuring inclusion, fighting marginalisation and poverty. the regulation on the european social entrepreneurship funds would make an important contribution to promoting those undertakings that pursue a social impact in their activity rather than just monetary benefits. securing better funding opportunities for them is key to supporting the role they fulfil in our societies. the matter is even of a bigger importance, given the economic and societal problems we are facing nowadays in the eu. however, i give my full support to the rapporteur, ms sophie auconie, who called for the final vote on the legislative resolution to be postponed due to the council’s decision to renegotiate the previously agreed text. i consider that this regulation should not simply be a legislative exercise. the justification for it lies in its potential socio-economic impact, and the european parliament must stay committed to its position in the renegotiation process.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the amendments to the proposal for a regulation on european social entrepreneurship funds (esfs), which is part of the social entrepreneurship initiative presented by the commission in its communication of 25 october 2011. increasingly, investors are interested in pursuing social objectives and a social investment market has therefore emerged in the union, partly composed of investment funds targeting social enterprises. these funds finance social enterprises, which are drivers of social change, provide innovative solutions to social problems and make an important contribution to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. it is necessary to adopt a regulation laying down uniform rules applicable to the efsi seeking to raise capital in the union and imposing corresponding obligations on its managers in all member states. those requirements should ensure the confidence of investors wishing to invest in those funds. in order to provide capital to social enterprises, the efsi should invest at least 70% of the total capital injections and unpaid committed capital in such enterprises.
in writing. − i support the adoption of the regulation on european venture capital funds, because through them a european venture capital investment sector for small and medium-sized enterprises is being created. by providing financing and advice to smes in the early stages of their formation but with high growth and expansion potential, venture capital funds stimulate economic growth, contribute to job creation and capital mobilisation, while increasing their investment in research and supporting entrepreneurship, innovation and competitiveness. this regulatory framework is intended to encourage venture capital funds to carry out cross-border activities, which will contribute to the development of the internal market.
in writing. − access to finance is essential to increase the competitiveness and growth potential of smes. in the context of the current crisis, marked by a decline in lending to the real economy, it is increasingly difficult for such companies to access loans. risk capital provides early financing for start-ups and is an important source of long-term investment for new and innovative smes. however, the small size of the funds and the fact that they can only provide low levels of capital have prevented them from playing a more important role in financing new businesses. as a result, smes continue to rely on short-term bank loans. i think that an increase in venture capital funds means more capital for individual companies and will give the funds the ability to specialize in certain sectors, such as information technology, biotechnology or health.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises are the backbone of the economies of the eu member states, which is why i believe it is important to involve european venture capital funds in their financing. this will stimulate economic growth, help create new jobs and capital, and allow the emergence of new smes and the expansion of innovative enterprises.
in writing. − the role of the european venture capital sector is to support sme financing and to encourage innovation and technological progress, but in the european union this sector is fragmented and we need to address these shortcomings by harmonising legislation across all member states. i believe that greater attention should be paid to the regulation of venture capital investments in green technologies. they are an important factor in the recovery of the economy, also taking into account the european union's major objective of being the world leader in the efficient use of energy resources. the adoption of legislative rules that provide incentives for investors will therefore undoubtedly attract venture capital in the field of green technologies.
in writing. - i voted for the amendments proposed by the european parliament on the proposal for a regulation on european venture capital funds. i consider it important that the objective of this regulation is to support growth and innovation in small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the union. at present, venture capital plays a minor role in sme financing. smes rely mainly on bank loans, which account for over 80% of their financing, while only 2% of financing comes from venture capitalists. the corresponding figure in the united states is 14%. i voted to make it possible for managers of a qualifying venture capital fund to attract additional capital commitments over the life of the fund. additional capital commitments should be allowed on the basis of criteria and conditions set out in the fund rules or in its instruments of incorporation. they argue that the core business of venture capital funds is to provide finance to smes through primary investments. venture capital funds must not engage in systemically important banking activities outside the normal prudential regulatory framework (the so-called shadow banking system).
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that through the two agreements the union will be able to open up its market even more and at the same time increase its exports to the two countries. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of the safeguard clause in the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. it is a safety net in the event that markets are faced with certain disruptions as a result of the signing of bilateral agreements. i also draw attention to the monitoring and reporting arrangements. they are essential for the correct application of this regulation. moreover, they have an even greater impact on sensitive products, such as bananas. another important aspect concerns social and environmental standards, which must be fully respected in the implementation of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the draft legislative resolution because i believe that a safeguard clause should be introduced to protect the european banana sector, which is a source of employment, from imports from third countries. on the other hand, banana production imported into the union from colombia or peru must benefit from adequate and decent wage, social and environmental conditions in order to avoid dumping to the detriment of european producers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments to the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council implementing the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas in the trade agreement between the european union and the republic of colombia and the republic of peru. the introduction of appropriate safeguard instruments is necessary to avoid serious damage to european banana crops, a sector with a very important share in the final agricultural production of several outermost regions. the banana sector is a sensitive production sector, given the limited capacity of these regions to diversify their economies due to their natural characteristics. the creation of efficient mechanisms for the management of preferential imports from third countries is therefore essential to ensure that european banana production is maintained under optimal conditions, as this is a sector that is essential for employment, especially in the outermost regions. we voted to respect international labour standards, developed and monitored by the international labour organization. ensuring decent working conditions for all must be a top priority for this sector, bananas imported from colombia or peru must be produced under fair wage, social and environmental conditions so that union producers do not become victims of dumping.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the amendments tabled to the proposal for a regulation on the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas provided for in the eu-central america association agreement. the agreements contain a safeguard clause to avoid serious disruption of the parties' markets and the device needs to be transposed into european law. the agreements provide for further reductions in eu customs duties on banana imports, improving the conditions under which signatory latin american countries export to the community market. imports of bananas into the eu are subject to a 'single customs duty' system, which came into force in 2006, ending the quota system applied since the establishment of the common market organisation (cmo) for bananas in 1993. the commission should present an annual report on the implementation of the agreement, safeguard measures and stabilisation mechanism for bananas, including up-to-date and reliable statistics on imports from central america and an assessment of their impact on market prices, employment, working conditions in the union and the evolution of the union production sector, with particular attention to small producers and cooperatives.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the lack of a framework for online and cross-border access to orphan works in libraries and archives has not yet been remedied. the creation of a legal framework for the circulation of these works is one of the key points in the finalisation of the digital single market. we need to have clear indicators that define these works, taking into account the need to respect copyright. it is particularly important to prevent the emergence of new orphan works in the future. clear ways of identifying and locating copyright holders should therefore be established. i also consider situations where an opera has been wrongly classified as an orphan opera. respect for copyright is essential to stimulate innovation and creativity at eu level.
in writing. − i support the directive of the european parliament and of the council on the crossborder use of books, newspapers, publications, films, music, television productions, etc., whose copyright holder cannot be identified. a digital database accessible to all union citizens is created for the use of the vast cultural heritage in member states' archives and libraries, which is not yet used. by publishing them via the internet or other distribution channels, europe's cultural diversity will be strongly promoted and made available to all.
in writing. − in a fast-moving information society, the preservation and dissemination of europe's cultural heritage is essential. as such, the digitisation of collections and archives belonging to museums, libraries, various archiving systems in public institutions, education, cinemas and cinemas, and public broadcasting organisations in all member states will allow for the extension of access to works held by these structures to the general public. however, it should not be forgotten that respect for copyright is essential, as this will stimulate innovation, creativity, investment and production and thus ensure that creative activity is rewarded.
in writing. − the digital age has also considerably affected the sphere of copyrighted works, with a widespread trend towards the creation and public availability of digital libraries and archives. for works where the authors are known to each other, there is harmonised and comprehensive legislation governing copyright remuneration, which is a key factor in stimulating innovation and is the foundation of the creative industries. on the other hand, i consider that works by unknown or no longer identifiable authors, generically called orphan works, must be equally accessible to the public without prejudice to the institutions that hold them. i therefore support this measure as a positive one, as making works available online for cultural and educational purposes is a way of protecting europe's cultural heritage.
in writing. − the adoption of this directive creates the framework for research into and use of orphan works by public institutions, for example libraries or museums, and for accelerating the digitisation of europe's cultural heritage so that it is available to all citizens. the adoption of this directive will allow wider access to culture, in support of all those who wish to enrich their knowledge.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a directive on certain permitted uses of orphan works. the purpose of the directive is to address the specific problem of the legal determination of the status of orphan works and its consequences for the authorised users and uses of works or phonograms considered as orphan works. the directive also covers certain uses of orphan works by publicly accessible libraries, educational establishments and museums, as well as by archives, film or sound heritage institutions and public broadcasting organisations established in the member states, in order to achieve objectives related to their public interest missions. different approaches in the member states to the recognition of orphan works may constitute obstacles to the functioning of the internal market and to the use of and cross-border access to orphan works. these different approaches may also lead to restrictions on the free movement of cultural goods and services. it is therefore appropriate to ensure the mutual recognition of that status, as this will allow access to orphan works in all member states.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution to express my concern at the serious deterioration of the situation in syria. i support the european union's efforts to increase pressure on the syrian regime. the main objective must remain the cessation of repression against the civilian population. un sanctions are the best solution to support a peaceful resolution of this crisis. intensive political dialogue between the opposition forces and syrian society must be promoted. this dialogue will be able to respond to the expectations of the citizens regarding the achievement of a peaceful and democratic transition in syria. my concern about the violence in syria is all the greater, as romania has the second community of foreign nationals residing on syrian territory. i am also concerned about the possible spillover effect of the syrian crisis to the region.
in writing. - the banking union is the most ambitious response to date to the debt crisis and to risks in the banking system. there are, however, a number of risks to be aware of. there are serious warnings about the risk that the banking union will disadvantage locally-owned banks in eastern europe, in the face of unfair competition from the big banks in the euro area. it also appears that the decision-making forum will be composed of representatives of the euro area countries only. for example, in the event of major risk, a decision to withdraw capital from the subsidiaries in eastern europe to stabilise the euro area parent banks is being considered. i am in favour of the project, provided that the position of non-euro area countries is fairly regulated, provided that decisions at the level of the banking union will affect all 27 member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the creation of a banking union, convinced that a single regulatory mechanism is necessary to stabilise financial markets and to move towards a genuine economic and monetary union. i also believe that the decisions of the european union need more democratic legitimacy. the involvement of the european parliament, as the representative of european citizens, in the process of establishing the banking union is therefore a necessity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on proposals for a european banking union (ebu), having regard to the ep resolution of july 2010 on the management of cross-border crises in the banking sector and the ep report on the proposal for a regulation establishing the european banking authority. the parliament thus identified solutions to the problems of managing cross-border financial crises, an integrated supervisory mechanism, reform of the deposit guarantee mechanism and the creation of a european stability fund. parliament's full participation is essential for the democratic legitimacy of the process leading to the establishment of a banking union. i believe that any major change to the oversight system, including transfers to other institutions, must be accompanied by an equivalent increase in the transparency and accountability of these institutions to parliament, which must have full powers of inquiry and full powers of appointment and budgetary procedures. i support the need to pay due attention to the potential spillover effects of the euro area banking union on non-euro area member states.
like other colleagues, i am obviously concerned about the situation in south africa and condemn the violent repression by the police of the miners' protests. it goes without saying that we respect the trade union rights of south african miners. on the other hand, i cannot help but wonder if they are not in danger of falling into a trap set by an unscrupulous leader. julius malema has, i believe, outgrown his role as a negotiator and is now taking advantage of social discontent to test his political power. his call for an illegal general strike in all the mines of south africa is, in my opinion, an incitement to violence. malema's speech to former south african soldiers yesterday has led to a state of high alert in the military and these actions certainly concern us. but i hope that in the end, the common good will prevail and not partisan interest.
the marikana platinum mine massacre is the bloodiest incident of its kind since the end of apartheid in south africa. a critical analysis of the evolution of social relations in this country after liberation from the racist nightmare is required. first of all, i think that the investigation into the deaths of the 34 miners should be directed primarily at the police forces who opened fire with violence. it is outrageous that 270 workers are to be tried on murder charges for the deaths of their own colleagues. we demand an objective investigation, otherwise there is a risk that the anger will flare up again. it's time to remind the african national congress that it promised a better life for all its citizens in the post-apartheid era.
member of the commission. − mr president, high representative/vice- president ashton visited south africa only a few days after the tragedy at the marikana mine. the tragedy has not only touched south africa, but people across the world have followed the dramatic events. we express our condolences for the lives lost. ms ashton discussed the situation in depth with those south african officials that she met, including the foreign minister and dr nkosazana dlamini-zuma, south african minister of home affairs and newly-elected chair of the african union commission. we welcome the appointment by president zuma of a full judicial commission of inquiry into the incident and of an interministerial committee to deal with the aftermath of the marikana killings. ms ashton also told our south african partners that the eu would be following with keen interest and attention its proceedings and findings. the commission established by president zuma will be chaired by a retired judge of the supreme court of appeal, a positive sign of its independence. the ten-member inter-ministerial committee appointed by president zuma is providing assistance and support to the families of the deceased and is trying to find solutions to the instability of the mining industry. it would be wrong to speculate and to try to anticipate the findings of the judicial commission, but clearly it is important, in our view, to examine the root causes as well as the precise circumstances of these events.
in writing. – the clashes between the police and striking miners in south africa resulted in a toll of 34 people killed, plus 10 more killed in the days preceding the event. this massacre shows that south africa has many challenges ahead. as regards this situation, i support the initiative of establishment of a judicial commission of inquiry to investigate the facts leading to these extreme acts of violence and i express my confidence that all those responsible will be held accountable for their actions. lives that were lost represent an irreparable damage. there are important steps that can be made in order to avoid the recurrence of such a situation ever again. the south african authorities should make robust and consistent effort to strengthen the rule of law and human rights, to ensure equality and to eradicate corruption, which i believe can contribute in important ways to the socio-economic development of the country. the police regulations and country’s labour dispute mechanism also should be reviewed. hence i gave my support to this resolution.
on behalf of the ppe group. although the burmese government has taken a number of encouraging measures in recent times to promote the democratic settlement of the country, it is clear that discrimination against a single community can lead to bloodshed and call into question genuine commitment to reform. that is why i consider the resolution adopted by parliament today to be very important, because it sends a clear signal to the burmese government. we are closely monitoring the situation and consider the persecution of any minority unacceptable. respect for human and minority rights is part of democratic state structures. the european union wants burma to join the ranks of democratic countries. but that is unthinkable as long as members of a community are persecuted on ethnic grounds. this is the message of today's resolution: to draw a clear line and to stand up for the values that we expect all our partners to uphold, including our own member states, of course.
this week we witnessed a new incident, a new victim of inter-ethnic war in the world, the american ambassador killed in benghazi, a case that was evoked at the beginning of the session of our parliament, which has always supported the fight for fundamental freedoms. sadly, though, bloody anarchy tends to do as much harm as repressive dictatorship. that's why i want to draw attention to the cause of the inter-ethnic clashes and the excessive intervention of the burmese law enforcement. three men from the rohingya minority raped and killed a buddhist woman. then more than 80 people died in fighting in rakhine state between buddhists and muslims. we call on the burmese authorities to recognise the rohingya minority and to make efforts to integrate them and address the humanitarian crisis. the equation of democratization and reform in burma is closely tied to the cessation of inter-ethnic hostilities in that country.
the author. - recently, a french minister made defamatory statements about the romani community in romania. i am outraged, but my outrage cannot be the subject of an emergency resolution. because any parliament that respects itself, respects the rules laid down in the regulation. under rule 122 of the rules of procedure, this situation cannot be the subject of an emergency resolution. it's not a matter of rule of law, it's not a matter of democracy, it's not a matter of human rights. applying this issue to the relations between two countries while everyone recognizes that it was an agreement that worked perfectly legally and both sides, both hungary and azerbaijan respected their rights can be the subject of indignation but not of a political resolution, in a circumstance where the security situation in the area can be quite damaged by promoting such actions. and i would like to ask rhetorically, how do you explain that in the yerevan press it is already known that this resolution has been adopted. i would like to see us stop trying to play games in this matter in favour of one side or the other, and destabilise a situation in which the european union should play a decisive role. that's why the liberal group withdrew its signatures from this resolution, that's why the liberal group will not vote for it.
i would first like to congratulate my fellow rapporteurs on the realism with which they have dealt with this important subject. i also raise the question of the danger of the cessation of payments in the rural development sector and other sectors already mentioned by other colleagues. i would also like to stress one point in the opinion of the committee on agriculture concerning payments for rural development measures. in its opinion, the committee on agriculture asked the commission to give the member states the necessary flexibility to transfer unspent funds between the axes. this flexibility is necessary and can contribute to economic growth. i therefore reiterate this request and draw attention to the fact that the time left to make the necessary adjustments is very short.
the union's policies and budget should make a substantial contribution to revitalising sustainable growth in the union and addressing major societal challenges such as resource scarcity, climate change, the relocation of european industry, underinvestment in education, health, research and the lack of job opportunities. the financial year 2013 is very important as it is intended to prepare the launch of the connecting europe facility and i therefore support maintaining the level of commitment and payment appropriations proposed in the draft budget. i consider that the needs for the development of transport infrastructure in the new member states should be duly reflected both in the financial year 2013 and in the future multiannual financial framework. finally, the inability of romania's previous governments must not lead to the reduction of the structural funds that romania needs to use in the current financial period and which it very much needs.
the 2013 'european year of citizens' should aim to raise citizens' awareness of their rights as union citizens when exercising their right to move and reside freely within another member state, for example as students, workers, jobseekers, volunteers, consumers, young entrepreneurs or pensioners. i insist on the removal of the obstacles which continue to prevent the exercise of the rights deriving from european citizenship. in this context, i stress the importance of removing the barriers to the free movement of romanian and bulgarian workers. we cannot really talk about european citizenship as long as there are barriers and differences between citizens of the member states. i therefore call for the lifting by the first quarter of 2013 at the latest of all barriers imposed by some member states on romanian and bulgarian workers. facilitating the free movement of persons and increasing the mobility of workers are important means of addressing the consequences of demographic changes in the labour market.
in writing. european development policy is, alongside trade policy and political relations, one of the cornerstones of the european union's external action. its main objective is to reduce poverty. support to developing countries to improve access to education is key to achieving this goal, given that over 100 million children worldwide are not included in the education system. without education, these children have little chance of gaining a job that will later enable them to enter the labour market, and poverty reduction efforts in these countries are hampered. as such, i consider eu support essential for the participation of as many children as possible, especially those from rural areas, in quality educational programmes - primary education and vocational training. the eu should also support the development of sectoral plans that also take into account the cultural specificities of each region or country, with a focus on involving civil society in those countries as much as possible in their implementation.
recently, a group of six member states asked the european commission to reinstate visa requirements for balkan states, citing false asylum claims. i think it is an unfounded and wrong request in two ways: firstly, abuse of the european asylum system is only possible because of its internal weakness. instead of restricting freedom of movement, we should speed up the adoption and implementation of the new asylum package. secondly, this solution would be identical to the one canada took three years ago when it reimposed visas for czech citizens. at that time, all the eu countries criticized the canadian government, and now they are only following suit. this duplicitous behaviour by the eu is shameful and contrary to european values. citizens from the balkans must be able to move freely within the eu, just as citizens from the czech republic, romania and bulgaria must be able to travel freely to canada or the united states. the commission must not grant this request.
i would like to welcome the agreement on banking supervision reached at the recent european summit. stricter supervision of banking activities is indispensable to avoid a repetition of banking crises, but also to ensure an adequate level of protection for depositors. however, the way in which member states will be able to participate in the single supervisory mechanism needs to be clarified, in particular as regards the status of non-euro countries. we must not ignore the gap between the cross-border dimension of banks' activities and their supervision at national level. in romania, banking capital from the euro area accounts for about 80%. last but not least, we must ask how we can ensure the integrity of the single market if we divide the banking union between participating and non-participating countries. that is why i am advocating equal rights for all member states under the new supervisory structure, including voting rights.
the union and the member states must develop, finance and implement an industrialisation strategy. over the last 30 years, the union has suffered a process of dismantling european industry. in the pursuit of greater profits, large european companies shifted production to third countries, where labor and raw materials were cheaper. today, most of the consumer products used by european citizens are imported from developing third countries. the difference between the selling price on the internal market and the low cost of production in these countries ensures huge profits for a small number of entrepreneurs, at the expense of the loss of millions of jobs in the union. the industrialisation of the union ensures job creation in europe, a decent living for european citizens, investment in schools, hospitals and basic infrastructure, thanks to the revenue from the member states' budgets. investing in the industrialisation of the union, not in austerity, will help the union to overcome the current economic, financial and social crisis.
tuberculosis, especially chemoresistant tuberculosis, and the spread of hiv as a result of injecting drug use, continue to be serious health problems, accentuated by the financial crisis facing our society, among the countries with a significant number of tuberculosis cases being romania. financial assistance to romania from the global fund to fight hiv, tuberculosis and malaria ended in september this year, leaving behind a significant number of patients who will no longer be able to continue their treatment, access adequate medication or receive any support for these conditions in the future. in the context of the increasing number of cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis and hiv in the countries of eastern europe and central asia due to a lack of funding, i believe that at eu level we must support the revision of eligibility criteria for funding from the global fund, emphasise the importance of policies to reduce the harm caused by drug use in third countries, and improve social integration activities for vulnerable groups of affected populations.
mr president, i would also like to start by congratulating our colleague, mr paul rübig, for this report. as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade i worked on it myself, and i would like to thank him for his cooperation. it has already been stressed by mr rübig that this report also has within its scope the aim of enhancing trade and business conditions for smes which are already engaged internationally, and of tackling some of the barriers that are deterring many smes from actually getting involved in international trade. rationalising the support for smes supplied by public institutions and the business community is very important, as is giving individual support to those companies whose profile matches business opportunities in third markets. smes from the new member states are at a disadvantage and should benefit from specific information delivered to them in a more accessible way. in conclusion, the internationalisation of smes is also very important for european smes.
micro-enterprises and smes are suffering in this period of economic crisis because of the difficult access to finance necessary for their development. 85% of new jobs in the european union between 2002 and 2010 were created by smes. industry plays a key role in the european economy and generates 25% of direct private sector jobs in the european union and accounts for 80% of private research and development. we support the enhancement and efficiency of assistance to smes at union, national and regional level for their access to the single market and to third country markets, in particular on issues related to promotion and access to information, protection of intellectual property rights, participation in public tenders, information and communication technology, standardisation and regulation. i welcome the new cosme programme on the competitiveness of smes and call for the simplification and rationalisation of the various union instruments dedicated to access to credit.
in writing. in romania, between 2008 and 2010, the number of employees in the sme sector remained at the same level as before the crisis, while in large companies the number of employees decreased by 6%. the jobs generated by smes are therefore much more stable than those in large enterprises. support for smes is therefore part of the solution needed to achieve 'healthy growth'. the opening up of external markets to smes, and in particular the expansion of opportunities to participate in intra-community trade, would bring important benefits to all employees of these enterprises. a special case is small rural enterprises. in the context of the need to diversify rural economies, the new common agricultural policy must provide adequate funds for the establishment and development of these enterprises. rural smes can absorb a significant part of the surplus labour force in agriculture and at the same time provide rural people with the services they need. last but not least, hundreds of successful businesses have been born in rural areas, exploiting the opportunities offered by rural development programmes. this is another argument in favour of an appropriate budget for agriculture in the future multiannual financial framework.
in the transport trade and economic relations between the european union and the united states of america, there is a need to reform the restrictions on foreign participation in airlines in the united states of america. the lack of reciprocity between european and american maritime and air transport rules, and the current imbalance between the ability of european companies to cabotage in the united states market and the ability of american companies to cabotage in the european union, is an obstacle that needs to be overcome in order to unlock the full potential of the transatlantic economic relationship. i also consider the agreement on interoperability between egnos, galileo and gps to be particularly important, as it will allow the development of european and american industries and applications using satellite positioning systems. finally, in the context of trade and economic relations between the european union and the united states of america, cooperation in the field of standards and legislation relating to the protection of personal data is becoming increasingly important.
european airspace must be made as efficient as possible and its use must be made in conditions of maximum safety. this will bring important benefits both in terms of economic growth and job creation and for the environment. the completion of the single european sky will lead to a more sustainable aviation system; i therefore believe that the progress made so far must be sustained and continued as rapidly as possible. we need high-quality air services, especially in the current situation, when air traffic is in a continuous growth. furthermore, i believe that there should be a uniform approach and a homogeneous situation in all member states, and cooperation and coordination in this regard is extremely important.
the achievement of the single european sky requires measures to meet the european union's aviation safety objectives, with a view to strengthening the current rules and ensuring a uniform and high level of aviation safety. i would stress the importance of programmes such as galileo and gnss for the achievement of the single european sky, and the importance of a binding timetable for the implementation of the single european sky, while taking account of commercial considerations. according to the commission, the timely introduction of sesar will bring tangible benefits to passengers by reducing flight time by approximately 10%, a 50% reduction in cancelled flights and delays, and a possible reduction in ticket prices. i call for the development of the single european sky to take full account of all european union airports, including regional airports, given their contribution to reducing network congestion and increasing air traffic capacity.
i welcome the consolidation and improvement of passenger rights. i believe that their implementation is a priority and must be done in a complete and uniform manner to avoid any confusion. furthermore, travellers must be kept informed of their rights and the information provided to them must be clear, simple and accessible. transparency needs to be improved in all services offered to eliminate unfair trading practices. i would stress that all consumers are entitled to a high and equal level of protection and that the role of national supervisory authorities in this respect is particularly important. the implementation of passenger rights legislation in all modes of transport will strengthen free movement in the internal market.
i stress the importance of developing a set of rules on passenger rights for all modes of transport and welcome the commission's decision to continue the information campaign on passenger rights until 2014. we recommend that national authorities and national consumer centres participate in this campaign. in addition, in order to meet the needs of disabled persons or persons with reduced mobility and to provide more comprehensive assistance to passengers in the event of major disruptions to travel, we recommend that information points and assistance desks be available at departure and arrival points at airports, railway stations, bus stations and ports, accessible both physically and by electronic means. i think it is important to address the proliferation of abusive clauses in air carrier contracts, such as the abusive requirement for passengers to use a one-way ticket for a return ticket or for passengers to use all coupons on a successive flight ticket. we call on the commission to take the necessary measures to protect passengers.
the böge-kalfin report reflects and emphasises the priorities set by parliament in the sure report. the european union budget is an indispensable tool in addressing the effects of the financial crisis. we are talking about a budget that is 94% reinvested in the member states and that must be used to create economic prosperity through investment and job creation. austerity measures were necessary, but to be effective they must be complemented by measures to catalyse the economy. therefore, an increase in the budget is indispensable and a freezing of the ceilings at the level of 2013 is excluded. the perception of the union budget and the deadlock created in the negotiations on the new multiannual financial framework can only be changed by a thorough review of the own resources system. a new system of vat collection and a financial transaction tax are two innovative directions that should benefit from our unconditional support. as regards our work in the european parliament, i believe that the strategy authorised by the contact group leads us, in the case of a proposal below the ceiling proposed by parliament, to a negative vote. if this happens, because it is not certain that a sufficient number of members will vote against the council's decision, it will cause a delay to the detriment of the european union. the strength of the european parliament lies in the codecision procedure. we must trust all the members of this parliament and allow the normal negotiations on european policy files, the horizontal files, to proceed. this approach is likely to change the position of many member states.
i have asked to speak at the end of this debate in support of amendment 72, which was initiated and tabled by a number of colleagues. the amendment concerns direct payments in agriculture and aims to replace the idea of reducing the current gap with the idea of convergence of direct payments between member states. the difference between the two expressions is very clear and very significant. this parliament has, in many resolutions, expressed itself in favour of fair treatment of member states in respect of agricultural payments. we can't say at this point that the idea remains valid, but only for the future. by today's resolution, parliament gives the president of the council a genuine mandate in the consultations to come. this mandate is incomplete without the legitimate and well-founded aspirations of the citizens of eastern europe.
in writing. as rapporteur for the imco opinion, i welcome the proposed multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014-2020 and its alignment with the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in the current economic context, we need to focus on measures that can lead to economic growth and overcome the economic and financial crisis we are facing. part of the solution is the proper functioning of the internal market, which can only be achieved through adequate funding. we are in the process of implementing the single market act. i consider that the mff must contain the financial resources necessary to implement the commitments entered into. another important element for growth and job creation is smes, so the cfm must give strong support to an eu policy aimed at improving access to finance for smes. no less important is the policy of consumer protection, with the ultimate aim of increasing consumer power. the successful functioning of the internal market is also not possible without adequate infrastructure, the connecting europe facility being an important step towards the creation of the single energy and digital markets and towards enhancing the free movement of goods, services and people.
in writing . it is to be welcomed that the european council remains committed to boosting growth and jobs in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. the pact for growth and jobs, agreed in june, provides the overall framework for action at national and eu level, using all the necessary instruments and policies. all the commitments set out in the pact must therefore be implemented fully and as rapidly as possible. it is known that smes provide around 90 million jobs in the eu, of which 30% are micro-enterprises, and 85% of all new jobs were created between 2002 and 2012 by smes, especially by newly created enterprises. access to finance is essential to finance business investment, to ensure that businesses realise their growth potential and to facilitate the creation of new businesses, which allows for future growth and jobs. moreover, the commission must support member states in reprogramming the structural funds so that they are strongly focused on growth and job creation, especially for young people, women and vulnerable people.
in writing. the key to the success of the single banking supervisory mechanism will be to ensure equal participation of member states in the decision-making process. the dominant share of euro area capital in eu member states with national currencies requires a balanced configuration of the new regulatory framework. otherwise, the european union will not only become a structure of 17 decision-makers and 10 victims, but the conditions for major systemic risks are created. the agreement on the gradual introduction of banking supervision in the euro area marks the end of the counterproductive disputes over the place of the banking and budgetary union in the european order of priorities. the franco-german compromise, indispensable to community cohesion, may be the right answer to the imperative of reducing the dangerous dependence between banks and governments. but we need not only measures to stop the vicious cycle of rising interest rates, falling ratings and liquidity problems, but also a framework that forces the banking sector to be sustainable and accountable in the face of speculative temptations. the serious effects of the financial sector crisis require us to act in such a way that 'ethical banking' is no longer a contradiction in terms.
in writing. i welcome the conclusions of the european council of 18-19 october, in which it reiterated its commitment to take firm action to address financial market tensions, restore confidence and stimulate growth and job creation. however, we believe that there has not been sufficient progress on the implementation of the pact for growth and jobs adopted in june and therefore call for firm, rapid and results-oriented action. in this context, we ask the commission to support the member states in the process of reprogramming the structural funds so that they are more strongly focused on growth and jobs. the eu's competitiveness and its economic and social development depend on the provision of modern and efficient transport, energy and communications infrastructure and information technology. in this regard, the connecting europe facility will address bottlenecks and missing cross-border links in trans-european transport infrastructure, complete the internal energy market and achieve a fully functional digital single market by 2015, and promote research and innovation, as well as improve the competitiveness of eu industry, as these will help to boost economic growth and create and retain jobs across the union.
i voted in favour of this report because the financial crisis continues in europe and the member states are still resorting to austerity measures. now more than ever parliament must act responsibly. it should take account of the fiscal policies of the member states in approving the 2013 budget. moreover, public expenditure of the union must be treated in the same way and the european parliament must set its priorities and reduce its expenditure where appropriate. i argue that the budget is an important instrument for promoting growth and cohesion in europe. i also believe that we should put more emphasis on innovation and competitiveness and better promote positive developments in these areas. the priority for romania is to ensure adequate funding for the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy.
mr president, we all know that in recent years, national budgets have immensely outgrown the eu budget, which has put economic growth under stress. it is important for the growth of all the european economies and that of the member states, including the european union, to get their fiscal house in order. i rise in support of this bill, because it is of paramount importance in fixing the euro crisis. by providing the member states with a budgetary framework, national parliaments will structure their national budgets in a pro-economic growth manner. if we allow deficit spending to continue, it will further stall economic growth and restrict the growth of the eu economy.
i voted in favour of the interim report on the procedure for approving the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework because it promotes a stable, sound and sustainable budget, guaranteeing growth and jobs, but also a high standard of living and security for europe's citizens. the union budget, and in particular cohesion policy expenditure, is an important tool that must remain at the disposal of the member states in order to overcome the current economic crisis and to achieve the objectives of strategy 2020. if we want a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe, we must certainly allocate sufficient resources to cohesion policy, at least at the same level as that agreed for the current programming period. i support the idea of eliminating macroeconomic conditionalities because it would be unfair to penalize regions for not complying at national level with procedures related to economic governance.
i voted in favour of this report because the union budget is a key instrument for stabilising the economy. it can be used to promote investment in growth and job creation. the budget can also help member states to overcome difficulties they are facing. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of sound public finances. member states must continue to work to exploit the potential for sustainable growth. the multiannual financial framework should provide increased budgetary flexibility to ensure that resources are used to the full. romania is having difficulty absorbing european funds and targets for the end of this year have been revised downwards. however, adequate funding for the cohesion policy and the common agricultural policy needs to be ensured. this will help to reduce the development gap with the other countries of the union.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the reform of the european union's own resources system is a step forward. moreover, i believe that vat-based own resources have a significant potential to contribute positively to the union budget. the tax could help to reduce the level of contributions from member states. in addition, the new system would bring significant benefits such as greater transparency, flexibility, security and predictability. member states would be treated equally and the administrative burden would also be reduced. but there are also some disadvantages to be considered in this process. we have to keep in mind that the methodology is complex and the simplification process is still quite difficult. the own resources system is very important and its reform must be given all due attention.
in writing. − the european union must respect the commitments it has made so far, including the payments relating to those commitments, since any failure to do so could damage the credibility of all european institutions, not just the european commission. the union is looking for solutions, including financial support, to mitigate the effects of the crisis and to develop various projects - investments in strategic areas for growth and job creation, reducing greenhouse gas emissions, transport networks - to name just a few examples - and as such it is desirable that we do not reach a situation where the eu cannot meet its commitments and reimburse legitimate payment claims.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and ask the commission to take into account the request in the opinion of the committee on agriculture concerning payments for rural development measures and to give the member states the flexibility to transfer unspent funds between the axes. i also draw attention to the fact that the time left to make the necessary adjustments is very short.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the council position on the draft general budget of the european union for the financial year 2013 all sections. i voted against the reductions in eu resources for 2013 by a total of eur 1 155 million (-0.8%) for commitment appropriations (ca) and eur 5 228 million (-3.8%) for payment appropriations (pc), compared to the commission's draft budget. i consider the competitiveness and innovation framework programme to be one of the main contributions to the europe 2020 strategy and an essential tool for facilitating access to finance, especially for innovative smes. that is why i voted to increase the commitment and payment appropriations for the cip innovation and entrepreneurship programme and the cip intelligent energy - europe programme. i am against the council's reductions in payments (- eur 1.6 billion, i.e. -3.3% against gni), which affect the regional competitiveness and employment objective (- 12.9%), the european territorial cooperation objective (- 18.7%) and the cohesion fund (- 4.7%), because, if adopted, these reductions would prevent the correct implementation of projects in the last year of the financial programming, with dramatic consequences especially for member states already facing social, economic and financial difficulties.
in writing. − in the context of the current economic and social crisis, the multiannual financial framework must support and encourage investment that promotes the recovery of economic activity, but above all demonstrate its added value in tackling the structural challenges facing member states, in particular unemployment and poverty. the new framework and new financial instruments must restore citizens' confidence in the european project, integrating article 9 of the treaty on the 'horizontal social clause' to guarantee a high level of employment, adequate social protection, to combat social exclusion and to promote a high level of education, training and health protection. it is also important to strengthen the administrative capacity of the authorities responsible for the implementation of cohesion policy in order to improve the management of the structural funds and thus influence the governance capacity of public authorities. the commission is to allocate at least 20% of the esf to promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. i also call for the recognition of the dramatic situation of young people in the labour market in the multiannual financial programming and consider it necessary to create a 'youth initiative' section in the european programme for social change and social innovation with its own financial envelope of eur 150 million.
in writing. − the multiannual financial framework for the period 2014-2020 is the main instrument for achieving the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy and in particular for ensuring economic, social and territorial cohesion. given the particularly important role played by cohesion policy in the recovery of the european economy, i believe that cohesion policy funding should be maintained at least at the same level as in the previous programming period, 2007-13, namely eur 354 815 billion. we will thus have a cohesion policy that will ensure strategic investment within the union, substantial economic growth based on job creation, increased competitiveness and at the same time support the overcoming of the current economic and financial crisis.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amendment no 72 on direct payments in agriculture, whereby i proposed replacing the idea of 'reducing the current gap' with the idea of 'convergence of direct payments between member states'. if we want a european budget, we must take into account the interests of all the member states; that is why this distinction is important.
in writing. − today i voted in favour of a youth guarantee scheme to provide more opportunities for young people. today’s youth is being hit particularly hard by the economic crisis, as are the public services which people rely on for their education and training. the youth guarantee scheme will provide a safety net for those struggling to find employment. i also supported the guarantees to maintain cohesion policy expenditure at least at the current level, which is vital for many eu member states, including romania. cohesion policy provides a lifeline through which inequalities can be reduced and less wealthy regions helped to prosper. another lifeline, although of a different kind, is the food for the most deprived persons programme. it must be renewed, and a solution must be found to ensure that it receives adequate financial support after 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament's resolution supporting a positive outcome on the approval of the multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the pact for growth and jobs, adopted by the european council in june, underlines the leverage of the eu budget in boosting growth and jobs. any reduction in the eu budget would increase imbalances and affect the growth and competitiveness of the union's economy and its cohesion, and undermine the principle of solidarity as a fundamental value of the eu. promoting growth and quality jobs for all europeans will only be achieved if the necessary investments in education, in promoting a knowledge-based society, in research and innovation, in smes and in new and green technologies, while promoting social inclusion, are made immediately, without further delay. i welcome the future connecting europe facility (cef) and the financial allocation proposed by the commission to it to improve europe's transport, energy and digital networks. i call for the amount transferred from the cohesion fund to the cef to be spent in full accordance with the national allocations provided for under this fund. i voted against amendments nos 12 and 30, which reduced the amounts allocated to the cosme programme and the european globalisation adjustment fund respectively.
in writing. − the commission's proposals for a new multiannual financial framework 2014-2020 include a set of proposals on reforming the union's own resources system. these include a proposal for the seventh own resources decision on abolishing the current vat own resource and replacing it with a new eu vat resource. under the current mff, a uniform rate of 0,30% of the harmonised vat base is levied in each member state in respect of own resources based on value added tax. the taxable base of vat is capped at 50% of gross national income for each country, to allow less wealthy member states to avoid paying disproportionate amounts (in low-income countries, vat generally represents a higher percentage of national income). this proposal represents a major improvement on the current system and can become a stable and viable resource for the eu budget.
in writing. − the procedures for drawing own resources to the eu budget must be carefully regulated, taking account of all the technical details, but also ensuring simplified methods that can be implemented uniformly by all member states. this new proposal on the own resource of value added tax is more transparent and provides greater adaptability and flexibility for member states compared to the previous regulations. however, i regret that the procedure for calculating the monthly contribution required to be carried out by each eu country in four steps is still complex and needs to be further simplified in the future, while also taking into account the vat systems in force in each member state.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the methods and procedure for making available the own resources based on value added tax, as the objective of the proposal is to simplify the way in which national contributions are calculated, thus reducing administrative costs and ensuring greater transparency. the new proposed calculation method uses the figures for vat receipts as a starting point. in order to achieve the greatest possible degree of simplicity and transparency, the regulation proposes that the commission establish a single average eu-wide share of vat revenue from supplies of goods and services for final consumption subject to the standard rate in each member state. member states shall apply the single eu average weight to their adjusted revenue. the figure obtained representing 'taxable vat revenue' is converted into a basic value, excluding taxes, using the effective standard vat rate of each member state. after the taxable amount has been established, the rate laid down in the implementing regulation of the own resources decision shall be applied for the calculation of the actual contribution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the review of the financial system is taking place at a very opportune moment. the new regulation could help the union to implement a more effective neighbourhood policy. at the same time, the new rules in question would bring a number of advantages, including greater flexibility and speed in the disbursement of financial assistance to third countries. in addition, the regulation provides for some special measures for quick payment in times of crisis and a reduction in administrative burdens. they consider that the general objectives pursued by the new regulation correspond to the overall objectives of implementing the union's policies. i would like to stress that they also seek to respect the principle of sound financial management. simplifying procedures and rules is another positive thing that will ensure attractiveness and accessibility.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the financial rules applicable to the annual budget of the union. the regulation lays down the rules for the establishment and implementation of the general budget of the eu, the presentation and auditing of the accounts. the establishment and implementation of the budget shall respect the principles of unity, budgetary accuracy, annuality, balance, unit of account, universality, specificity, sound financial management and transparency. this regulation should promote the objective of e-government, in particular the use of electronic data in the exchange of information between institutions and third parties. pursuant to article 317 tfeu, the regulation consolidates the fundamental control and audit obligations of the member states in the implementation of the budget under shared management, to the extent that those obligations are currently provided for only by sectoral rules. the regulation creates a coherent legislative framework to enhance overall legal certainty, the effectiveness of controls and remedies and the protection of the financial interests of the union. it thus contains provisions on common management and control obligations for administrative structures, the annual declaration of assurance on management (by which administrators assume responsibility for the management of the union funds entrusted to them), the verification and acceptance of accounts, and suspension and financial correction mechanisms managed by the commission.
in writing. the credibility of the ec programme is linked to the credibility and morality of its way of operating. these are being questioned by the dalli case. fighting corruption is a priority. when corruption is punished outside the law, however, the fight against it becomes the act of corruption itself. olaf has found no direct evidence supporting the guilt of commissioner dalli. he also did not indicate any law text that he had violated. circumstantial evidence alone cannot defeat the presumption of innocence. the commission's procedure in mr dalli's case is a stain on his reputation in any case. if mr. dalli is innocent, the sacrifice of an innocent member is a disgrace. if mr. dalli is guilty, the commission's attempt to hide behind his so-called voluntary resignation, the guilt of not having prevented and punished the wrongdoing in time, is an act of cowardice and evasion of responsibility. asking an innocent man to resign is an aberration. what more can you ask of a guilty man? asking them to prove their innocence is against the principles of the law. it is true that by resigning, the adoption of the 'tobacco directive' is postponed, to the satisfaction of the complainant undertakings. slander is cheaper than bribery. that's why i was asking: who is the corrupt one? mr. dalli or what?
the agreement between the european union and israel on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products is beneficial for relations between the two parties, but raises two legal issues. the first concerns the territorial extent of the israeli authority to be established, and in order to comply with european and international law, we must allow israel to distinguish between its own territories and those occupied. the second issue concerns the types of products that can be added to this agreement, unfortunately without the consent of the european parliament. cosmetics will probably succeed pharmaceuticals, with parliament deprived of its right to co-legislate. the union's democratic forum has a duty to draw attention to these legal gaps and to vote responsibly, giving the european commission the chance to clarify these problematic aspects of its proposal. therefore, i consider it necessary both to request the referral of the case to the committee of the whole and to adopt the statement proposing the correct delimitation of the territorial extent of the future israeli authority. i hope that these elements will be fully taken into account by the council and the commission, whatever the outcome of the vote this evening.
mr president, besides technicalities and legalistic issues, this is a highly political topic. we have our values, but we also have our geopolitical interests, and our values will never prevail and will never flourish if we cannot win in our geostrategic endeavours. this is precisely why, to promote both the political interests of our citizens and their values, we have to stop the filibustering of the coming into force of this agreement. therefore, i hope that today our vote will bring this odyssey to an end.
european-level control of exports of dual-use items and technologies is necessary to avoid their proliferation and use for military purposes. at the same time, we must strike a balance between this imperative and the unfettered flow of commercial products and technologies that are used for civilian purposes. i support the commission's proposal to simplify and speed up existing procedures so that any delays in implementing decisions to tighten controls to the detriment of european security are avoided. however, i believe that we must remain vigilant about the use of products or technologies that could violate human rights, democratic principles or freedom of expression, in particular through the use of interception technologies and digital information transfer devices by tracking mobile phones. i therefore support the amendment tabled by my political group and my colleagues in the alde and gue groups.
the european commission has proposed that 2013 be the european year of citizens. i am convinced that, despite the current crisis, it will confirm the will of citizens to exercise their rights and to assert them. statistics show that one third of citizens intend to do so, but are still hampered by administrative difficulties and lack of language skills when moving to another member state to work abroad. the draft european year of citizens leaves the responsibility for providing adequate information to the member states, but the most effective way to exchange good practice is always at eu level. our amendments were designed to expand the scope of the program and to give citizens a greater role in learning about their rights. as shadow rapporteur, i would like to emphasise that the commission has successfully identified the needs behind the 'more europe' slogan. the year's expectations have been expressed at eu, national, regional and local level, but the budget for their implementation as well as for the operation of popular communication channels and portals would need to be increased. as the vote today has confirmed - and i welcome this - all the political groups have agreed.
in a europe, in a european union which is becoming more and more a union of governments rather than a union of citizens, this initiative is welcome, on one condition: that it is not a formal, festive one, but that it tries to bring together the energies of european citizens towards the acceptance of a much deeper community among them. of course, there are still issues concerning freedom of movement, the use of languages, the recognition of diplomas, and electoral issues. we must also recognize this, since we are organising this campaign a year before the elections, but we need an institutionalised framework in which the dialogue with the european institutions is less formal and more effective, so as to re-establish the confidence of european citizens in the union.
i voted in favour of the report because the designation of 2013 as the european year of citizens is a good opportunity to ensure that all europeans are properly informed. better information would help to strengthen the sense of belonging to the union. european citizenship offers a number of rights and benefits that we should all be aware of. these include freedom of movement and labour mobility. so far, romanian citizens have not fully enjoyed their rights. several member states maintain work restrictions for romanian workers. the restrictions are unjustified and the european commission has repeatedly recommended their removal. the impact of such a measure would be positive for both romanian workers and member states. i think the dynamism of the labour market in those countries would increase, boosting competitiveness and economic growth.
i voted for this recommendation because i believe that the european union should not tolerate the violation of fundamental human rights. therefore, we must take firm action against those responsible for the death of sergei magnitsky. his case is a signal that russia's criminal justice system is flawed. we must ensure that those responsible for magnitsky's death cannot travel freely within the european union. i also think that all their bank accounts in the states of the union should be frozen. one solution would be to generalize such practices to all human rights violators, regardless of their country of origin. i also think that an automatic sanctioning mechanism should be introduced for such cases. in the magnitsky case, the union could make the lifting of the restrictions conditional on the launch of an independent investigation leading to the conviction of those responsible.
madam president, we need to have an organised and unified european air traffic control system for commercial flights. the current high volume traffic and outdated technology has led to increasingly congested skies with more delays for passengers. with an ever-expanding demand for air travel, these problems can only get worse without proper infrastructure and a new approach. the nation-centric approach we see today is no longer fit to handle air traffic on its own. it is estimated that with a more coordinated approach presented by the single european sky, delays and cancellations may be reduced by as much as 50%. the coordination would foster growth and competition by allowing for more efficient use of air space. the single european sky would not impede national sovereignty and each nation would retain unilateral control over its air space for military purposes.
i voted in favour of this report because i consider the 'single european sky' project to be visionary and necessary for a very near future of europe. air traffic calls for a new approach. defragmentation must be avoided because it entails a number of major costs. enforcement and cooperation in this area is crucial. however, we must also emphasise the security impact of the project, because a number of issues relating to the security, including national security, of the member states will be addressed in a much more constructive manner. secondly, the economic component is also crucial. reports indicate several hundred thousand jobs created by this program, and beyond those jobs, the expected economic benefits are substantial. i believe that this project also has a political contribution to make to the future of european unification.
madam president, this report is the practical application of our wish to respect the rights of citizens, including disabled citizens, who choose to travel. the report recognises the need for a clearer definition of passenger rights and of key terms such as ‘extraordinary circumstances’. the publication of these rights would ensure that passengers are fully aware of what they are to expect from their carriers. defining these rights would make it easier for both passengers and carriers. passengers should know their rights and carriers must be more accountable to their passengers. this report calls for better infrastructure to make various modes of transport accessible for the disabled. transportation services must comply with the design-for-all principle. they must make transportation available physically, and provide facilities for booking and information for help on a variety of matters. all transport modes should be ict-accessible throughout all of the european union. introducing minimum accessibility standards would accomplish this goal.
madam president, regarding the discharge for the european environmental agency, i asked colleagues to refuse discharge. we even had more information than we had in may, when we decided to postpone discharge. we had information and written evidence of contracts of over one million euros, which probably breached the procedural rules for procurement, because they were designed specifically for certain companies. nevertheless, the discharge was granted following a close vote. i lost, but i think that, at the end of the day, after we voted three times in the cocobu and once in plenary against the discharge of this agency, the signal has been sent. finally i would like to say that it was bad management to let the executive director decide whether a discharge is given and not the agency on environmental issues, and i ask for the resignation of this executive director.
the whole alde group voted to discharge this agency. we had to weigh in our vote allegations of corruption - but we have not seen a report from olaf or any other relevant authority - against the report of the court of auditors, which is certainly critical but not accusatory, against the statements of the two commissioners who appreciate the management of this agency, and i am referring to commissioner potočnik and commissioner šemeta; against the statements of an entire scientific council made up largely of prestigious universities, in particular cambridge university. all this shows that those involved in the management of the agency appreciate the performance of the agency and its leadership. however, we do not believe that we should not grant discharge to a european agency on the basis of a number of assumptions. we think it's only natural that these assumptions should be supported by evidence. what if tomorrow we refuse to give the commission discharge because we assume that in the newspaper mr barroso has some important business in a member state otherwise, only statements that would harm?
i voted in favour of this report, which i consider to be very important from the point of view of the approach. i do not think that when it comes to the interests of european citizens, and this is an area where europe is not efficient, it is rather deficient, because it is not able to ensure the health standards of all its citizens, access to generic medicines at reasonable prices can give european citizens a chance. i think it is wrong to try to politicise this subject, because there is nothing political but the politics of those you represent, and that is why i welcome the adoption of this report by parliament, which, in my view, shows a high level of responsibility towards the health of the european citizen and towards his access to medicines that can support his benefits.
as the alternate rapporteur for the report on israel's participation in community programmes, i voted in favour of this protocol as it represents a further step towards strengthening economic cooperation between the union and israel. israel is one of the european union's most important partners. romania also has a very close political and economic relationship with israel in areas such as industrial, agricultural, health and tourism. the effects of the protocol will be felt by both european and israeli producers. producers will be facilitated to enter the market, while at the same time having lower costs with certifications. european and israeli consumers will benefit from more choice when buying a product. it is further proof that there is a high degree of harmonisation between the union and israel.
i voted in favour of mr goerens' report, which i consider realistic and at the same time problematic, because the commission is trying to reshape the volume of aid, and above all the quality of aid, through the agenda for change. certainly, in the future, a number of countries which are currently emerging will have to be removed from the aid agenda, because europe is currently in a situation, we might say, which is very delicate; there are many citizens, for example portuguese, who are looking for jobs in brazil, and brazil is still on the list of countries which are being supported. it is also important that this quality of change is better directed, certainly towards social protection systems, towards governance, but also towards sustainable economic growth, because recently, in an analysis of the situation of aid to africa, there has been increasing talk of a fatal aid that europe is giving to africa. that is why i believe that the quality and the scale and the criteria of this support must be reconsidered.
i voted in favour of the report because eradicating global poverty is a key objective for the union. the european union is the main donor of aid to poor countries, but other developed countries also need to focus more on poverty eradication. and emerging countries should allocate more money to this end. united action is needed to achieve the millennium development goals by 2015. i also believe that the union should take account of the categories most vulnerable to poverty, and i am referring to children, women, the elderly and the disabled. last but not least, development aid must be directed to those sectors with the greatest impact on poverty reduction. it's about education, health, agriculture and infrastructure. this can ensure the sustainable development of states in difficulty.
madam president, in order to dig our way out of the financial crisis, everyone must fully understand the context behind job creation. in fact between 2002 and 2010, 85% of all new jobs within the european union were created by small and medium-sized businesses. the commission must accomplish the aim to increase and help small and medium-sized businesses by ensuring that they have access to structural funds. these funds provide small and medium-sized enterprises with a source of money for the development and expansion of their businesses. the commission must also promote more harmonisation between the member states in order to enhance competition, which will further grow the economy. as part of this step towards more harmonisation, the commission must also conduct a fitness check to review any existing erroneous or overbearing regulations. we need simple, clear and transparent regulations that are also predictable. these steps entail a long, time-consuming process, which is what we have now. that is why i say we need clear and predictable rules to a short deadline. we must work together to improve the job outlook and the european economy.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the presence of european smes on the international market should be better supported and encouraged. they represent the vast majority of all companies and are also the main source of jobs and innovation in the union. i therefore believe that the potential of this sector must be better exploited. this will boost the economy back to growth. moreover, smes can make a major contribution to promoting and extending the vocational information system, and in this way youth unemployment could be substantially reduced. i would also like to stress that support for smes must take account of the specific needs of each enterprise. we do need a more coherent and coordinated european policy on smes and the implementation of the new strategies must be done as soon as possible.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that trade between the european union and the united states should be used to the benefit of both parties. the elimination of duties on bilateral trade could benefit those member states adopting policies to stimulate investment. romania is also a case in point, with its strategic partnership with the united states promoting cooperation in several areas. in addition to defense and cooperation within nato, the us and romania have committed to deepening ties in key areas such as energy security and the it sector. the romanian market has been successfully operated by renowned it and carbonated beverage companies for some time. the highly skilled workforce has led them to transfer some of their business to my country. other investors, like chevron, have also entered the energy sector. i want to continue to encourage the presence of american companies in romania.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i support the objectives of the draft amending budget. i think it is very important that a percentage of the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund for the next period is being re-allocated to risk-sharing instruments. however, this transfer must be carried out correctly and at the same time be subject to appropriate and effective control. moreover, the budgetisation of own resources forecasts will lead to a useful and welcome change in the way member states allocate their own resources contributions to the union budget among themselves. parliament's information in this procedure must be a priority.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 4/2012 (pbr 4/2012 ) of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iii commission. the draft amending budget (dar 4/2012) concerns: a revision of the forecasts for traditional own resources (tor, i.e. customs duties and sugar levies), the bases for calculating vat and gni, the budgeting of the corresponding corrections in favour of the united kingdom and their financing and the revision of the financing of the gni reductions in favour of the netherlands and sweden in 2012; the creation of four budget lines for the implementation of the risk-sharing instruments financed by the european regional development fund (erdf) and the cohesion, convergence, regional competitiveness and labour force fund; the amendment of budget line 16 the preparation of the budget line 05 03 to allow the final payment of the euro (gni) to be made in the form of a symbolic replacement. the use of updated own resources forecasts leads to a more accurate determination of the payments to be made by the member states during the budgetary year and reduces the inevitable errors in the forecasts of the previous year.
in writing. − the main objective of the authority is to provide independent and transparent scientific advice on matters that have a direct or indirect effect on food and feed safety. the authority should improve the openness and transparency of the risk assessment process to take due account of independent and peer-reviewed scientific literature and to provide detailed justifications when rejecting divergent views. the authority should be encouraged to intensify dialogue and cooperation with external experts and national agencies, in particular where there are divergent views on the risk assessment process. certain elements of importance for the discharge have been addressed and retained and the roadmap for further actions under the common approach is expected to take full account of these aspects. i voted in favour of granting discharge to the european food safety authority in respect of the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted for granting the discharge to the european food safety authority in order to acknowledge the measures implemented by the authority and the commitments it made since the postponement of the discharge last may. i acknowledge in particular the executive director’s commitment to foster the authority’s transparency towards european citizens by proposing that the management board elect its chairperson by open ballot and by working with the european commission in order to define the modalities of full public access to unpublished raw data. i also welcome the authority’s intention to consider the possibility of publishing the outcomes of the breach of trust procedures and to reinforce the mandate of its committee on conflict of interest. however, the authority should further strengthen its independence policy and consider adopting rules, including among others sanctions and publishing the curriculum vitae and declarations of interest of the in-house experts and scientists. it is crucial for the authority to keep the discharge authority regularly informed on the progress achieved, and in this respect i believe that its annual activity report should include a special section describing the actions taken to prevent and manage conflicts of interest from now on.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european food safety authority (efsa) for the financial year 2010. i would stress that the main objective of efsa is to provide independent and transparent scientific advice on matters that directly or indirectly affect food and feed safety. i welcome the fact that efsa has developed a tool for grants and procurement to improve the monitoring of tendering processes, contract management and payment forecasting capacity. i welcome the fact that a new database on subsidies and public procurement was launched on 28 june 2012. i welcome the significant reductions in the costs of meetings of the management board, which amounted to eur 6 175 per member in 2010, and in particular the reduction in expenditure of 66% compared to 2010, achieved through the switch to audio on demand, the use of english as the sole language for council meetings and the organisation of all meetings at the parma location.
in writing. − the work of the european medicines agency is important in providing the best possible scientific advice to eu member states and eu institutions on issues related to the evaluation of the quality, safety and efficacy of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. i have noted that the agency has improved the scope and methodology of systematic ex-ante and ex-post checks related to the verification of declarations of interests and i welcome the agency's decision to carry out an annual evaluation of its revised declaration of interest policy. the agency shall inform the discharge authority periodically, on a six-monthly basis, of the implementation of its revised policy and in particular of its systematic ex-ante and ex-post controls. the agency shall include in each of its annual activity reports a specific section describing the actions taken to prevent and manage conflicts of interest. i voted in favour of discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2010.
in writing. − i voted in favour of granting the discharge to the european medicines agency in order to acknowledge the measures implemented by the agency since the postponement of the discharge last may. the agency has shown a commitment to addressing the concerns raised by the european parliament. i commend in particular the efforts made by the executive director and his team to foster the agency’s transparency towards european citizens through, for example, its commitment to developing public access to clinical trial data. i also welcome the its commitment to improving the prevention and management of conflicts of interest with systematic ex-ante and ex-post controls related to the screening of declarations of interest as well as a yearly evaluation of its revised policy on declarations of interest. it is crucial for the agency to keep the discharge authority regularly informed on the progress achieved, and in this respect i believe that its annual activity report should include a special section describing the actions taken to prevent and manage conflicts of interest from now on.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2010. i would like to recall the importance of the work carried out by the agency in providing the best possible scientific advice to the member states and institutions on the evaluation of the quality, safety and efficacy of medicinal products for human and veterinary use. i welcome the efforts to reform the system of payments for services provided by member states' authorities, which should be clearly based on real costs. i believe that a high level of reliability in terms of declared interests can only be achieved if pharmaceutical companies also make public the list of experts and research centres with which they work and the amounts involved in their financial reports. the appropriateness of introducing a legislative initiative in this area should be examined. the agency should also include in each of its annual activity reports a specific section describing the actions taken to prevent and manage conflicts of interest.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe it is important to have control over the conditions under which forestry material is imported into the union. third countries exporting forest reproductive material to the european union must comply with the same conditions as union producers. for this reason, i believe that these materials must comply with european rules as regards both the system of authorization and registration of the source material and the rules concerning the subsequent production of reproduction material from that source material. only in this way can we ensure that imported forest reproductive material does not destabilise the ecosystems of the european union. the protection of the environment and forests must remain a constant concern for the union.
in writing. − the rules on the internal marketing of plant reproductive material are laid down in council directive 1999/105/ec. in order to facilitate and to respond promptly to market demand, the directive provides for the council to establish rules for authorising the import of reproductive material from third countries on the basis of a system of equivalence. this update was proposed by member states and parties in order to facilitate trade, in particular the import of forest reproductive material, and to respond promptly to market demand, in particular for fast growing energy/biomass tree plantations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of including forest reproductive material in the category 'qualified' in the scope of that decision and for updating the names of the authorities responsible for authorising and controlling production. national certification rules for forest reproductive material in canada, croatia, norway, serbia, switzerland, turkey and the united states of america provide for an official on-site inspection during the harvesting and processing of seeds and seed production. the systems for the authorisation and registration of basic material and the subsequent production of reproductive material from that basic material should comply with the oecd system for the certification of forest reproductive material for international trade. as regards 'qualified' material, those conditions should include the provision of information on whether the products are genetically modified or not. at the time of entry of the seed and planting stock into the territory of the union, the supplier importing such material shall inform the official body of that member state in advance of the import.
in writing. − the concept of european citizenship introduced by the maastricht treaty aims to strengthen and deepen european identity and at the same time to enable european citizens to participate actively in the process of european integration. a sense of belonging to the european union is a very important factor in shaping and defining civic participation, which only enhances the collective identity on which the future of the union depends. i welcome the commission's decision to make 2013 the european year of citizens and believe that this will give new impetus to the debate on citizenship of the union and put the effective and informed exercise of this right at the heart of the political agenda.
in writing. − the right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states is an essential individual right deriving from citizenship of the union, and citizens must be fully aware of and enjoy the full range of rights granted to them by union law. the european year of citizenship is an important impetus for a better awareness of union citizenship, as well as to stimulate citizens' participation in the democratic life of the union and to address democratic deficits and high absenteeism in european elections. concrete ways are needed to close the gap between the eu institutions and the citizens of the union, to address democratic deficits and the low turnout in european elections. citizens must have access to simple and transparent information on the european parliament elections, the programmes and objectives of political parties and candidates, and their electoral rights. at the same time, the voting procedures should be simplified. i call for the promotion of information, education and awareness campaigns that are easily and freely accessible to all eu citizens and especially to vulnerable groups. i also call on the commission to draw up a comparative handbook explaining the terminology, scope and content of citizenship of the union in order to promote a common understanding of the concept.
in writing. − i support the proposal to establish a european year of citizens in 2013 to give all european citizens the opportunity to become more aware of the association between union citizenship and the right to free movement, given that only 43% of europeans claim to be familiar with the term 'european union citizen', and around two thirds of respondents from the 27 eu member states (67%) are not well informed or not informed at all. as the representative of the citizens, parliament must make an important contribution to their understanding of european policies, with a focus on participatory democracy and the new rights created by the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, in particular the citizens' initiative.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the report on the european year of citizens because i believe that this is an opportunity to enhance awareness of the rights attached to union citizenship, in order to help citizens make full use of their right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. it is important to give concrete solutions to achieve better and equal opportunities for all. citizens must be fully aware and take full advantage of the broad array of rights granted to them under union law, both in their country as well as in cross-border situations. moreover, i am convinced that the european year of citizenship will increase citizens’ awareness on union citizenship and will stimulate citizens’ participation in the democratic life of the european union. any restrictions imposed on european citizenship, such as the ones in place for romanians and bulgarians, must be ended as soon as possible in order for the citizens of these countries to benefit fully from their rights.
in writing. − 2013 will mark the 20th anniversary of the introduction of the concept of 'citizenship of the european union' by the maastricht treaty. the institution of european citizenship has affected the lives of millions of people, creating a number of benefits such as cross-border access to healthcare. yet a recent eurobarometer survey shows that 48% of citizens say they are not sufficiently informed about their rights as european citizens and only 30% of citizens believe they can personally influence the european process. a 2011 eurobarometer survey shows that only one third of eu citizens are fully or partially satisfied with the eu's administration's efficiency, availability of services and transparency, with the rest expressing dissatisfaction, particularly with the latter. despite the modest budget allocated (€1 million compared to the 2011 european year, which had a budget of around €11 million), we must make the most of the 'european year of citizens' to remind our citizens of what the european union can do for each of us.
in writing. − the maastricht treaty gives all citizens of the union european citizenship, which is in addition to their national citizenship and gives them the right to travel, study and work in any of the member states, as well as a number of other related rights. unfortunately, almost half of the citizens do not know these rights and cannot exercise them. this is why the establishment of a european year of citizens in 2013 20 years after the introduction of european citizenship is welcome. the actions planned for 2013 can increase awareness of european rights, values and history among the population so that citizens can benefit from the opportunities of eu membership. any initiative that brings citizens closer to the european institutions is certainly useful. i personally believe that the actions of the european year of citizens must be coordinated at community level to ensure that information is transmitted uniformly to every corner of the union. unfortunately, the budget for this programme is insufficient, much less than the funds allocated to other european years. in addition, no co-financing is provided for projects by civil society organisations, so we can anticipate limited success of this initiative.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the draft decision on the european year of citizens because 2013 will mark the 20th anniversary of the establishment of citizenship of the union. the union is founded on the indivisible and universal values of human dignity, freedom, equality and solidarity and is based on the principles of democracy and the rule of law. every citizen of the union must enjoy the rights set out in the treaties and the eu charter of fundamental rights. in order to enable union citizens to make informed decisions on whether to exercise their right to free movement, it is essential that union citizens are also adequately informed of other rights they have under union law in cross-border situations. i also voted to make the multilingual 'europe to you' web portal, which is a 'one-stop shop' information system on the rights of citizens and businesses in the union, more popular with eu citizens. all initiatives launched for and in the context of the european year of citizens should raise awareness of citizens' rights among staff of public authorities, whether at union, national, regional or local level.
in writing. − the european air traffic management system remains fragmented in terms of airspace organisation, technological equipment and air traffic control procedures. this has led to inefficient flight operations and additional costs of eur 1 billion per year. at the same time, there has been a considerable increase in air traffic levels and the forecasts are that this trend will continue in the near future, especially in south-east europe. the increased level of air traffic can only be managed effectively and safely if neighbouring states and air navigation service providers cooperate more closely in the future. the creation of the single european sky is a key mechanism to overcome future challenges and should generate sufficient capacity to manage the increasing number of flights registered on the continent, in order to reduce delays, increase safety and cost efficiency, and to reduce the environmental impact.
in writing. − at a time when the european union is focusing on creating new jobs, we must also bear in mind that the implementation of the ses will lead to better organisation and management of air traffic in europe, which will result in a high demand for highly skilled jobs, i.e. with high-level skills and very well paid. a more efficient european airspace will, on the other hand, bring additional economic gains at european level, including benefits in terms of growth, job creation and the environment. europe cannot afford to lose 30% of eu gdp, 58% of the jobs that can be created or 110% of co2 savings if the deployment of sesar were delayed by 10 years.
in writing. − the report aims to address the implementation of air transport legislation, given that it plays a major role in the eu economy and society. in this context, air traffic management (atm) is essential for air transport operations, while addressing the challenges of competitiveness, safety and sustainability. it is important to take into account that air traffic is rapidly approaching its maximum capacity and, as time goes on, the problem continues to intensify and the implementation of single european sky (ses) legislation is urgently needed to avoid possible security or operational risks caused by unprecedented traffic flows and outdated technologies. the project is expected to have a cumulative impact on eu gdp of eur 419 billion, create 328 000 jobs and save 50 million tonnes of co2. the ses is also open to neighbouring countries, with the aim of enlargement, and benefits a geographical area larger than the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on the implementation of the single european sky legislation because it shows a lot of progress on the implementation of the single european sky and 2012 is a key year for the implementation of the single european sky (ses). european airspace is among the busiest in the world, with over 750 million passengers using eu airports. given that air traffic volume is continuously increasing, leading to insufficient capacity and increasing delays for passengers, we draw attention to the urgency of the successful implementation of the ses legislation, in order to avoid increased congestion and to ensure greater coherence of european aviation safety provisions. in this respect, we ask that regional airports be taken into account in the development of ses, given their contribution to decongestion of the network and to increasing air capacity. we ask the commission to report to the transport and tourism committee by march 2013 on the progress made in implementing the ses legislation, together with an assessment of the consequences of delays in implementing the functional airspace blocks.
in writing. − the mass transport of european citizens is no longer a simple aspect of our lives. with the increasing number of citizens of the member states travelling, the use of transport is an integral part of the european economy, society and culture. it is the duty of the european authorities to ensure that interactions between citizens and operators in this sector are transparent and fair. however, it must be remembered that the proper conduct of travel requires not only respect for the rights of travellers but also for their obligations. the commission's information campaign on the rights of travellers in the eu should be extended, and greater emphasis should be placed on informing people of their obligations. as an increasing number of european citizens use the internet to purchase or validate travel authorisations, this process should be encouraged, precisely because of its benefits in terms of increasing the speed of boarding procedures, as well as its tangible benefits in terms of environmental protection. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i welcome the commission's policy of guaranteeing common and comparable rights and conditions for all road, rail, air, sea and inland waterway passengers, and support all measures aimed at removing the obstacles that prevent european citizens from exercising their rights effectively, within the framework of an intermodal approach. i also believe that particular attention should be paid to improving information for passengers and their compensation in the event of disruption, cancellation of travel or loss of luggage, and to defining the rights of passenger organisations, which are best placed to inform and support citizens.
in writing. − in a europe where citizens have the right to move where and when they want, according to their needs and interests, better connectivity of all means of transport and, by implication, the application of a single regulation on passenger rights for all modes of transport is essential. on the other hand, i believe that member states should cooperate more closely in developing a european, multimodal travel planner that would allow travellers to plan their journey across europe, including the most diverse means of transport.
in writing. − in aligning the rights of all eu citizens to all types of transport, i believe that more attention needs to be paid to people with disabilities and reduced mobility and their travel needs. the report provides some measures to support these people, especially in terms of providing specialist assistance, which significantly improves the current situation. however, i believe that in the future we must concentrate our efforts on finding solutions at the level of each eu country in terms of accessibility of transport infrastructure, in order to harmonise and adapt the standards imposed at the unit level to the architectural specificities of the member states. this will remove architectural barriers to the safety and security of disabled people and persons with reduced mobility and enable them to fulfil their role as active members of society.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's own-initiative report on passenger rights for all modes of transport. i believe that future initiatives by the commission on passenger rights must address the missing elements of the existing regulations, namely a smooth journey for all passengers and all modes of transport. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to a minimum standard of quality of service offered by carriers, the right to compensation, reimbursement and information, in a common legislative framework that creates conditions for fair competition between the different modes of transport. it is important that passengers receive clear information on the liability of carriers in the event of damage to luggage during the journey, on differences in the baggage allowance and on compensation for delays. i also stress the importance of the following: in the case of online ticket purchases, no additional costs should be added before purchase; the need for quick complaint handling through simplified procedures; clarification of liability in the event of damage to mobility or assistance equipment, the replacement cost of which often exceeds the maximum reimbursement amount provided for by international law.
in writing. − i voted against the discharge for the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2010. i regret the difficulties encountered in the open dialogue between the council and the committee on budgetary control and, in particular, the council's refusal to answer parliament's supplementary questions, which is a legitimate part of the discharge procedure. an effective way of monitoring the budget implementation process depends unconditionally on proper interinstitutional cooperation between parliament and the council; i would therefore like to reiterate that this process requires the utmost responsibility on the part of all parties involved.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament decision on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2010, section ii council, refusing to grant the secretary-general of the council discharge in respect of the implementation of the council's budget for the financial year 2010. parliament's right to grant discharge is in accordance with articles 316, 317 and 319 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which must be interpreted in the light of their context and purpose, namely to subject to parliamentary control and oversight the implementation of the entire budget of the union without exception and to grant discharge separately not only for the section of the budget implemented by the commission but also for the sections of the budget implemented by the other institutions referred to in article 1 of the financial regulation.
in writing. − following the requests of the european parliament, the european environment agency (eea) became more involved in 2010 in actions to improve its communication with the public and the media, such as the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes), the international year of biodiversity through the green façade project, the eye on earth platform. the european environment agency has thus used the union funds in the thematic manner provided for by the european legislator and the european budgetary authority. the european court of auditors had no comment on the agency's accounts for 2010, which it considers to be reliable and in line with the laws and regulations in force. in addition, the eea has always provided timely, detailed and satisfactory answers to all the rapporteur's questions and the eea board has taken steps to prevent any uncertainties in the future. in view of the above, and the excellent work carried out by the agency, i considered it necessary to vote in favour of the discharge for the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010.
in writing. - the vote in favour of appointing leonard orban as a member of the court of auditors is based on his extensive professional experience in european and non-european affairs. this statement is supported by the positions held over the years by the minister of european affairs, a position also held during the previous government, former european commissioner, former presidential advisor, and chief negotiator of romania for eu accession. there is no doubt about his professional competence.
in writing. − mr. orban has a wide experience in european affairs; he is a former commissioner and minister of european affairs in the romanian government, having been appointed to these posts due to his expertise and not to political affiliation. he was also chief negotiator on behalf of romania for the country’s accession to the european union. in this position he supervised the establishment of the audit and control system in romania, acquiring a good knowledge of auditing. these are the reasons why i voted for his nomination.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the support provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund is welcome in the current situation. the global economic and financial crisis has hit ireland hard in recent years. that's why i think the loss of 592 jobs is very important for the irish economy. the loss of revenue due to redundancies at the irish company will generate significant indirect job losses through a decrease in workers' disposable income and a reduction in the purchase of irish goods and services at local and regional level. i therefore believe that the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund is very important in the current situation for the recovery of the local economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i think it is a good idea to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers who have suffered as a result of the economic and financial crisis. in the context of the crisis, several member states decided to strengthen their budgets. in many cases, this consolidation has come at the expense of research and development programmes and many companies in the sector have been forced to reduce their activities. through the funds made available, some 700 workers will be reintegrated into the labour market through various forms of assistance such as job search assistance, vocational training and retraining, self-employment assistance and measures to stimulate older workers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in relation to the application submitted by sweden in the case of the pharmaceutical company astrazeneca. the request refers to 543 redundancies in the astrazeneca company between june and october 2011. another 444 redundancies (987 in total) took place before and after the reference period and are linked to the same collective redundancy procedure. sweden has had a strong position in medical research and the mass layoffs at astrazeneca were unpredictable, although the situation in the pharmaceutical sector was expected to worsen as a result of the increasing dominance of generics and the outsourcing of r & d outside europe. i believe that egf support should be allocated primarily to training and job search activities. the coordinated package provides for a jobseeker's allowance of eur 7 170 (calculated for an average duration of participation of 6 months) and a mobility allowance of eur 500. i believe it is important to facilitate access to egf funds for the reintegration of redundant workers into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that workers affected by the economic and financial crisis should be supported in their attempts to reintegrate into the labour market. in the context of the crisis, the metal and construction industries were the main affected by the decline in global orders. many of these have been forced to limit their activity, and some have even had to stop. shipbuilding is no exception. as the outlook for the sector is not very optimistic for the future, it is expected that more and more workers in this sector will lose their jobs. the proposal for a decision should be supported to provide for measures for the reintegration of those made redundant.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the application submitted by spain concerning the company metal, in the region of galicia, spain. the application concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 4 325 854 from the egf for spain in respect of 878 redundancies in the period from march to december 2011 in 35 enterprises in the region of galicia active in the manufacture of metal products. the disposals in the shipbuilding industry are aggravating the difficult employment situation in galicia. the main economic sectors in galicia were fishing, along with the automotive industry, the textile industry, the natural stone industry and the shipbuilding industry. given the impact of the crisis, the prospects for future reintegration into the labour market of displaced workers in this area do not look very encouraging. i would stress that assistance from the egf should not replace actions which are the responsibility of undertakings under national law or collective agreements, nor measures to restructure undertakings or sectors of activity. we ask the spanish government to inform the european parliament and the commission annually about the employment rate of persons who have benefited from egf assistance.
in writing. − i voted for this report because i support the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of changes in the structure of world trade. the construction sector in the netherlands, as well as in the european union as a whole, has been severely affected by the crisis. the crisis also affected some of the investments in infrastructure and housing programs. this has led to a substantial increase in the unemployment rate in the gelderland region, with the construction sector being the most affected. in this context, the regional authorities are considering a series of measures to stimulate the integration of the 435 workers concerned into the labour market, such as assistance in finding a job, vocational training and retraining, assistance for the placement of dismissed persons and the promotion of entrepreneurship.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the netherlands request. this application relates to the mobilisation of eur 2 898 594 from the egf for the netherlands. the request concerns 516 redundancies in 54 construction companies in the region of gelderland, the netherlands, in the period from february to november 2011. the construction sector is a major employer in the gelderland region and redundancies have had a negative impact on local communities, with 4 100 jobs already lost in the sector in 2010 and youth unemployment rising by 10% in 2011. i recall the importance of improving the employability of workers, especially those in low-skilled occupations, through tailored training measures and by recognising the skills and competences acquired during their professional careers. i welcome the fact that the egf contribution is intended to be used exclusively for active measures in favour of the workforce, through training and counselling.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i support the mobilisation of part of the european globalisation adjustment fund to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of changes in the structure of world trade in the netherlands. in this country, the european aluminium sector has experienced a decrease in consumer demand. moreover, there was also a decrease in the average production of aluminium in the union, which created a negative impact on the dutch company concerned, which was heavily dependent on the construction and transport sectors. that is why i think the measures envisaged to reintegrate workers into the labour market are welcome. and the coordinated package of personalized services will help the laid-off workers in their drive to get back into the market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund on the request submitted by the netherlands in connection with redundancies in zalco. the application concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 494 008 from the egf for the netherlands to support the 616 redundancies caused by zalco aluminium zeeland company nv and its two suppliers (ecl services netherlands bv and start) in the netherlands during december 2011. the dutch authorities argue that these redundancies were the result of the global financial and economic crisis, which caused a sharp drop in consumer demand, illustrated by the 25,7% reduction in the average eu-wide use of aluminium between 2008 and 2009, especially in the automotive and construction sectors. i consider that the procedure for adopting decisions to mobilise the egf should be swift and smooth. it provides one-off, time-limited individual support aimed at supporting workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. we ask the dutch government to inform the ep and the commission annually about the employment rate of persons who have benefited from egf assistance.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that workers affected by the consequences of the economic and financial crisis must be supported in their attempts to reintegrate into the labour market. i think the decision to mobilise the fund in favour of france is welcome. the economic crisis has worsened the prospects for economic growth as well as credit conditions in this country. and because of this, the security of workers in terms of a stable job has been greatly diminished. the car market suffered in france, where car sales fell sharply. and this was despite the temporary measures taken by the authorities. therefore, i consider that the measures in question represent a good way to remedy the current situation. they are to provide individual support to workers in need.
in writing. - the financial and economic crisis had serious consequences for the european automotive industry, and by implication for the labour market, and these effects are still being felt. the european car market has experienced a major decline, leading to staff reductions and social tensions. concrete measures are needed to support the 2 089 workers made redundant by psa peugeot citroën. they should focus on providing assistance in job search, guidance, training and retraining. however, special attention should be paid to the retraining of vulnerable people affected by redundancies. in this respect, i support the development of the professional potential of vulnerable groups and the recognition of skills acquired during their professional careers. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund plays a crucial role in the economic recovery of regions following large-scale redundancies, including in the newly acceded states. i would like to welcome the european commission's proposal to allocate eur 2.9 million from the european globalisation adjustment fund to romania to provide assistance to workers made redundant by nokia.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of france in the case of peugeot. this application relates to the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 11 949 666 from the egf for france in respect of 2 089 redundancies which occurred within the undertaking psa peugeot citroen between november 2009 and february 2010. the worsening growth prospects and tightening credit conditions seen during this crisis have raised concerns among individuals about their job security and led them to delay the purchase of a vehicle. the companies have reduced their investments and, consequently, the renewal rate of their fleet. peugeot citroën automobiles is obliged by french law to participate in the revitalization of these regions, contributing to the creation of new activities and new jobs in order to mitigate the effects of redundancies. i regret that the evaluation took 27 months, i.e. from the submission of the application in may 2010 to the adoption of the budgetary authority's proposal for a decision in august 2012. we call for the mobilisation of egf funds to be facilitated so that redundant workers can be reintegrated into the labour market as quickly as possible.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i think it is a good idea to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund to help workers who have suffered as a result of the economic and financial crisis. the commission established the profitability of the sampled union producers by expressing the pre-tax net profit of the sales of the like product to unrelated customers in the union as a percentage of the turnover of those sales. as renewable energy production seems to be migrating from europe, i believe that urgent action is desirable. thus, it would be a good idea to reduce production and transport costs, while also reducing the distance between customers and markets. in addition, measures aimed at reintegrating redundant workers into the market are welcome in this context. they are very useful individual support that will benefit the people affected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the support provided by the european globalisation adjustment fund is welcome in the current situation. in germany, the market for printing equipment is already operating on a global scale. however, more and more important players in the market are creating fierce competition for german producers. although competing products are often low-priced, they are also of inferior quality. as a result, the german company's sales in this area decreased and its profits decreased considerably. i believe that the measures envisaged can contribute to a positive development of things. the package of services to be financed aims at reintegrating redundant workers into the labour market. i would like to stress their importance in this context.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the amendment to the regulation is welcome in the context of global technological progress. there is a need for close control of exports of products which could be used for purposes other than civilian purposes. however, the impact on the relevant industries must also be considered. in the current economic context, we must not jeopardise the global competitiveness of smes. romania is very interested in the consequences of the amendment. my country is the largest producer of heavy water in the world. heavy water is used to cool candu nuclear reactors. in this respect, i would not want any heavy water exports to be hampered in the future. the commission should adopt delegated acts in accordance with article 290 tfeu. cooperation with member states and other stakeholders will also be required.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the training of crews on board ships is of particular importance for maritime safety. navigators must always be able to operate in conditions of maximum safety. european legislation in this area must therefore be brought into line with international standards. i welcome the commission's proposal, which aims to achieve just that. we need a coherent and comprehensive european shipping policy. it must aim at improving working conditions and training crews. in this context, i would stress that the minimum rest period is essential and must be respected in all situations. thus, fatigue-related hazards and accidents can be avoided. i would point out that the global dimension of shipping requires the adaptation of european rules as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a directive on the minimum level of training of seafarers. the union maritime sector is characterised by a high level of maritime expertise, which underpins its competitiveness. the quality of training for seafarers is important for the competitiveness of the sector and for attracting union citizens, especially young people, to maritime professions. in order to maintain quality standards in the training of seafarers, measures to prevent fraudulent practices in certificates of competency and skills should be improved. to that end, member states shall adopt and implement appropriate measures to prevent fraud and other illegal practices in relation to certificates and attestations issued and shall provide for effective, proportionate and dissuasive penalties. better training of seafarers should include appropriate theoretical and practical training to ensure that seafarers are qualified to comply with safety and security standards and are able to manage risks and emergencies. quality standards and quality standard systems should also be developed and implemented on the establishment of a european reference framework for quality assurance in education and training in the field.
in writing. − the additional protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement between the eu and the state of israel on conformity assessment and acceptance of industrial products will allow eu exporters to test and certify, if they wish, their industrial products before export, once, according to the same aligned requirements and standards, and to access the israeli market without having to undergo any further conformity assessment-based certification procedures. it will also apply the reverse process, with the same aligned requirements and standards. i voted for this agreement which aims to improve trade between the eu and israel on a reciprocal basis. it is a beneficial agreement for both european citizens and those of the state of israel, who will be able to benefit from trade in goods, especially medicines, under favourable conditions: reduced costs for european patients, faster access to markets, diversification of pharmaceutical products, optimisation of control of pharmaceutical products produced outside the eu. the arguments against this agreement did not convince me because they do not prove consistency, being at the same time of an economic and political nature. moreover, the highly likely assumption in the event of rejection of the acaa, of losses that the eu market may suffer (reciprocity could also work towards sanctions from israel), was completely ignored.
in writing. − the eu's development policy has as its main objective to support developing countries' efforts to eradicate poverty, including the target of achieving the millennium development goals by 2015. the european union must choose the best combination of policies, tools and resources to be effective in fighting poverty, paying particular attention to the quality of the aid it provides by directing its support to the countries where the impact can be greatest. i believe that in the future, eu efforts should focus on supporting sustainable growth, which does not harm the environment, biodiversity and natural resources or increase vulnerability to natural disasters. eu development policy should therefore promote a 'green' economy that is able to create jobs without causing undesirable effects on the environment. they also believe that actions to improve the capacity of developing countries to cope with the consequences of climate change should be encouraged and supported. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european union and its member states are world leaders in innovative finance for the financial sector, in combating climate change or in development. the european commission regularly feeds into the debate at european level and carries out assessments of potential innovative sources of funding. although the eu is the world's largest donor of development aid, i believe that aid alone is not enough to reduce poverty sustainably. we need policies that overcome trade, geographical and governance barriers and help to make the most of the opportunities offered by globalisation.
in writing. − our efforts, as representatives of the citizens of the european union, are to guarantee their rights and freedoms at the level of the union, but also to offer them solutions for sustainable and equitable development, reducing the disparities between the social classes in each country and inequalities of all kinds. in the field of development in particular, the future of eu policies must be based on a sound, unified application of the principles of administrative and fiscal governance, with a view to eliminating extreme poverty and aid dependency among citizens in developing countries. but i think that in this proposal too little attention has been paid to the situation of people with disabilities in developing countries, who unfortunately live below the poverty line by 82%. in this regard, our efforts must be directed towards finding solutions and generating immediate benefits for these disadvantaged people, in close cooperation with the private sector.
in writing. − small and medium-sized enterprises are one of the most important sectors of the european economy because they provide jobs for a significant number of european citizens and because they make a decisive contribution to economic growth and development in the european union. small and medium-sized enterprises must receive appropriate support and attention because they are one of the main actors involved in the research and innovation process and because they remain a major contributor to the development of the competitiveness of european economies. as the effects of the economic and financial crisis are becoming more widespread, boosting the competitiveness of small and medium-sized enterprises is becoming essential. this cannot be achieved by returning to protectionist formulas, but by encouraging the presence of these economic actors more and more on international markets. the european union, together with the member states, needs to act more consistently to change complex customs rules, to eliminate unclear technical regulations or to encourage freer and less costly access to information that can encourage the international expansion of small and medium-sized enterprises. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the global economic crisis that started in 2008 has affected small and medium-sized enterprises in europe, which continue to struggle to recover. despite the difficult environment in which they operate, smes have retained their role as the backbone of the european economy. the 20.7 million smes represent over 98% of all european enterprises and employ over 87 million people. the majority of smes (92.2%) are microenterprises with fewer than 10 employees. current estimates show that smes account for 67% of total employment and 58% of gross value added. the trends in the various member states are increasingly divergent and i believe that a positive signal must be sent in terms of employment. in this delicate situation, decisive policy action to address the drivers of sme growth could tip the balance.
in writing. − there are some 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the eu, representing 99% of all companies. smes provide jobs for 75 million people (70% of total eu jobs). if the eu can improve the competitiveness of smes and adopt measures that can reduce the administrative burden faced by smes, then the potential of european entrepreneurs will be developed and the eu economy will be boosted back to growth. the eu should invest in programmes that aim to identify the entrepreneurial potential of european citizens as a viable alternative to employment, especially among young people, women and migrants. expanding the entrepreneurial culture in the eu and attracting more people to the world of entrepreneurship through ad-hoc programmes, incentives such as sme-friendly tax systems and tax benefits could help people overcome the fear of failure and give them the courage to start or expand their business. the natural consequences will be new jobs, more innovation and more economic growth for all businesses, whether they are industrial, service or social.
in writing. − the international presence of european smes needs to be improved, as only 25% of them are active in the single market area and only 13% were active outside the union. in a globalising world, european smes need to be encouraged to become more involved in activities in other non-eu countries and, in particular, in the new emerging countries, where there is insufficient potential.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on smes: competitiveness and business opportunities. i am convinced that smes play a central role in the eu’s economic development. the eu should invest in programmes whose direction addresses the entrepreneurial potential of european citizens as a real alternative to employment – particularly in the poorest and most vulnerable countries of europe. in order to encourage entrepreneurs to take the risk of starting their business, two key points should be implemented: the entrepreneurial culture should be made more attractive through ad-hoc programmes and the administrative and fiscal barriers that young entrepreneurs face should be reduced. finally, creating a business environment supportive of the sustainable development of smes is fundamental.
in writing. − smes are the backbone of the economy, considered a driving force for developing research and innovation, promoting employment and contributing to eu competitiveness. unfortunately, these firms are the ones most affected by the lack of competitiveness, due to their reduced adaptability to market needs, limited access to capital, technology and infrastructure. that is why i believe that we must give priority to smes and the main measure we must take is to facilitate their access to substantial funding. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the cohesion fund and its impact on the union's external financing and will continue to monitor the implementation of the cohesion fund.
in writing. − 'small and medium-sized enterprises are rather an expression of a specific mood and attitude', declared a former german minister of economy in charge of economic design for west germany in 1956. decentralisation at member state level has played a decisive role in the development of smes. it is proven that smes seek the support of regional administrations and regional financial institutions. studies carried out at local level show that small enterprises mainly develop long-term links with local actors. we need integrated european policies for smes that aim to increase access to finance and investment in research and innovation. facilitating their access to international markets can make a decisive contribution to the growth of exports. i am convinced that in the present period, when we are increasingly faced with outsourcing processes, smes can prevent these risks. their added value is their high adaptability at relatively low costs. the european standardised system should allow their participation in decision-making processes at all levels, including in public-private partnership contracts between member states and the commission. the standardisation of information technology and an integrated system of cooperation are priority measures to increase their competitiveness.
in writing. - i particularly welcome the rapporteur's initiative to call for the establishment of a 'one-stop shop' for vat; such a shop would greatly simplify the procedures for small businesses when doing business across borders. i regret that parliament has not given time for debate to this report, which is useful and relevant to the european economy.
in writing. − the european union and the us enjoy the best integrated economic relations, illustrated by an unrivalled level of mutual investment stocks, amounting to over €2.1 trillion. total us investment in the eu is three times that in asia and eu investment in the united states is about eight times the value of eu investment in india and china combined. investment is thus the real driver of the transatlantic relationship, contributing to economic growth and job creation on both sides of the atlantic. for these reasons, and in the current economic context, i believe that trade between the eu and the us must be better used to stimulate smart, strong and sustainable growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on trade relations between the european union and the united states of america, considering that closer trade links between the two partners and increased investment would boost job creation and economic growth. it is also important to underline that in certain areas the perspectives of the union and the us remain different, in particular as regards the use of genetically modified organisms or cloned animals.
in writing. − i support the proposal to institutionalize the interoperability of the regulatory regimes of the european union and the us, which would help facilitate and boost transatlantic trade. while not all existing regulatory problems can be solved, the implementation of a global standard will primarily help to improve product safety for consumers.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the report on trade and economic relations with the united states, as i welcome the ongoing discussion between the eu and the us on how to work collectively to increase growth potential and foster financial stability in order to create high quality jobs. furthermore, i am convinced that working closely with the council, the commission, the us congress, the us administration and the stakeholders will make it possible to achieve the full economic potential of the transatlantic economic relationship, in order to create new opportunities for businesses and workers on both sides of the atlantic and strengthen eu and us leadership in the global economy. nevertheless, there are still some problems that persist in the relations between the eu and us, and which also affect the economic climate, one of the most important being the visa-free restrictions for the citizens of four eu countries. visa-free travel should be granted equally to all eu citizens in order to increase mutual confidence and to boost economic and trade relations.
in writing. − the protection of geographical indications is indeed one of the important bilateral issues, but i am convinced that the current impasse can be overcome. we have the example of the recently concluded agreement, under which from 1 june organic products certified in the eu or the usa will be able to be marketed as organic in either region. this agreement will open up important trade opportunities for both partners. in agriculture as a whole, trade relations are mutually beneficial, with the us being the eu's second largest trading partner for agricultural products. but i have my doubts about the possible effects of a complete abolition of export refunds in eu-us agricultural trade. such a decision should be based on a thorough study.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution on trade and economic relations with the united states, as the eu and the us are each other's main trading partners, with the two economies together accounting for about half of global economic output and almost a third of world trade flows. trade and foreign investment between the eu and the us must be better used to drive smart, strong, sustainable, balanced, inclusive and resource-efficient growth, which eventually leads to job creation. we stress the importance of further strengthening transatlantic economic relations while upholding eu interests in areas such as environmental, animal health and welfare, food safety, cultural diversity, workers' rights, consumer rights, financial services, public services and geographical indications. we also welcome the initiatives taken to develop common standards in key areas of technological evolution such as nanotechnology, electric vehicles, smart grids and e-health. given the growing importance of electronic commerce, data protection standards play a key role in protecting consumers in both the eu and the us. we stress that the eu and the us need to address the growing cybersecurity threats in a concerted manner and in an international context.
transposing the directive has been a challenge for many member states, and even at this stage some have failed to transpose the legislation. the reasons are controversies over the violation of privacy. in romania, the situation was similar, and the bill was initially declared unconstitutional. it was only this year that the directive was successfully transposed. i therefore believe that a new framework should be drawn up, taking account of the controversial aspects. the commission must take account of the constitutions of the member states when drawing up these proposals. proposals will also have to respect the right to privacy and intimacy. although the commission announced its intention to amend the directive last year, it has not yet done so. in my view, the new proposal should be launched by the end of this year, to avoid other member states being brought before the court of justice.
in june 2011, i asked the commission, by a written question, whether it envisaged revising the 2006 data retention directive 24 so that uniform conditions for data retention apply at european level, which are in line with both the constitutional provisions of the member states and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and which do not prejudice the exercise of the right to free movement, the right to privacy. in your reply of 12 august 2011, you informed us of the consultations the commission has held with civil society, law enforcement, data protection authorities, member states, industry representatives and judicial authorities. you said that you had heard the different views on possible pathways and that you would consider these pathways in an impact assessment that would precede a proposal for revision. is that impact assessment ready? what is its content and when will it be made public?
i would like to support the commission's proposal to open negotiations on a free trade agreement with japan as soon as possible. this country is an important trade and political partner of the union and one of the world's leading economies, as is well known. moreover, as studies by the european commission have shown, the conclusion of such an agreement could increase bilateral trade between the union and japan by 43 billion for the union and 53 billion for japan. of course, i agree that we must be very careful to include non-tariff barriers in the agreement and i appreciate the commitment of our japanese partners to address these concerns through domestic measures and reforms. as i pointed out a few days ago in an article in the wall street journal, former prime minister hatoyama, who is now head of the japanese delegation for relations with the european parliament, the european union and japan can form a de facto single market. we share a set of values with japan and we also advocate a common vision of the world order. the free trade agreement would strengthen our close cooperation. in concrete terms, the benefits we would derive from this agreement cover exports, jobs, growth and the union's competitiveness. there are challenges, but i'm confident we can overcome them, which is why we need to start talking as soon as possible.
trade between the european union and japan has great potential. unfortunately, this potential is not yet being exploited. one solution could be to negotiate a free trade agreement between the union and japan. however, some form of protection will be needed for those vital industries of the union and its members. an example is the production of automobiles. the automotive sector is also very important for romania. romanian car manufacturers, such as dacia, are increasingly important in the european premium market. in other areas, however, the benefits of a free trade agreement would be very significant. this would open up new outlets for european producers. and european consumers would greatly benefit from such an agreement. they will have more options when they decide to buy goods.
madam president, i would like to thank commissioner barnier for his strong commitment to deepening the single market, which is evident in the single market act. despite the benefits the single market has brought to citizens and businesses, and to our economy overall, i think we should be critical in identifying the areas where we can do better, and take the necessary measures. this process was started with the first single market act, which is under implementation, and it is now being completed with the single market act ii. i believe the approach taken by the commission and the priorities identified are correct. nevertheless i would like to stress that these measures must be accompanied by better governance of the single market and a strong commitment from member states to transpose the legislation correctly and in a timely and more transparent way, making maximum use of correlation tables. enforcement is a key priority if we want the single market to deliver. last but not least, it is essential to communicate more with businesses and citizens and to associate them as closely as we can with the deepening of the single market.
in writing. the 20th anniversary of the launch of the single market is an opportunity to reflect on the obstacles that prevent european citizens from fully enjoying their fundamental rights. the right to free movement, which is still restricted by protectionist measures, is a good example. if european citizens and consumers are at the heart of the european project, then measures taken at european level must facilitate their access to the labour market while ensuring their fundamental freedom to move freely within the eu. that is why i believe that the time has come to talk about relaunching the single market, leading to real inclusion and restoring the confidence of european citizens in this market. i welcome the measures taken so far by the european commission in this direction, but i would urge more firmness on the part of the european executive to punish protectionist tendencies in certain member states.
in writing. 500 million consumers, 21 million businesses, €2.8 trillion of intra-eu trade and €1.5 trillion of world trade is a nice balance sheet for the european single market. it has transformed the way we live, shop, work, study, and travel. in addition, the rights of millions of european citizens, who can do these things in the country they want, are protected by european law in all member states. the implementation of the single market has enabled and continues to enable the process to be steadily improved. that is why i believe that european citizens should be increasingly involved in decision-making, and the european year of citizens in 2013 will be a good opportunity for them to have their say on their wishes and dreams.
in writing. in october, 20 years after the single market was established, the commission adopted the single market act ii - 'together for new growth'. the document focuses on developing fully integrated networks within the single market, promoting the cross-border mobility of citizens and businesses, supporting the digital economy across europe and strengthening social entrepreneurship, cohesion and consumer confidence. the single market in transport, energy and communications requires the elimination of disparities between the transport, energy and communications infrastructures of the states that joined the eu on 1 may 2004 and those of the other member states. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the right to vote and stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament. finally, one of the medium-term objectives of the european union and the member states should be to shift towards a computerised public administration, particularly in terms of its cross-border dimension. the implementation of e-procurement across the eu could generate savings of at least €100 billion per year for public finances. support the completion of the framework for the modernisation of eu public procurement rules by imposing electronic invoicing as the standard invoicing method in public procurement.
erasmus is a flagship programme of the european union. after the free movement of people and goods, erasmus is considered one of the european union's great achievements. parliament therefore supports increasing union support for education and training in the period 2014-2020 in order to raise the level of skills of citizens and to help tackle high levels of youth unemployment in several member states. given the importance of education for the future of the union, we are not only calling for an increase in the budget of the erasmus programme in the next financial period, but also for the following: the inclusion of the increase in the number of people over 35 years of age benefiting from lifelong learning among the general objectives of the programme, the inclusion also of the mobility of people for educational purposes in the field of entrepreneurship, therefore that erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs, and the inclusion among the european union policies relevant to the erasmus for all programme, of the european union industrial policy.
in writing. erasmus is one of the most successful programmes of the european union. it offers significant educational benefits to students, giving them the chance to travel and to come into contact with other cultures. unfortunately, the lack of funding from the union budget risks affecting the programme. more than 1 500 foreign students arrive in romania each year, and another 4 500 young romanians study in eu countries with the help of erasmus grants. the large number of students confirms the success of the programme, further proof that we need sufficient funds for vital union policies. we cannot sacrifice education policies when one of the union's main problems is high youth unemployment. we need to encourage education and vocational training programmes to prepare young people for the labour market. the european people's youth therefore sent a letter to the heads of state and government attending the epp congress in bucharest, asking for their support for the amended budget proposal that the commission will present. the letter calls for the release of funds necessary to enable the beneficiaries to continue projects in various fields. the letter demonstrates the epp's commitment to the proper funding of the most important european policies.
in writing. erasmus is part of the community lifelong learning programme and comprises actions for european cooperation in higher education. erasmus currently provides mobility grants for thousands of students, with a focus on ensuring academic recognition of the studies undertaken. in this context, it is worth noting that in october 2009 the european commission celebrated the reaching of 2 000 000 erasmus students at european level. the erasmus experience remains a unique intercultural, academic and personal experience, not only for those who have participated in the programme, but also for those who are motivated to join. the issue of financing remains a key one, especially in times of economic crisis. the european union should make efforts to secure the necessary funds for the erasmus programme to continue in the period 2014-2020. there is a need to introduce 'social criteria' in the award of erasmus grants, allowing students with low incomes to benefit from mobility periods without fear of lack of sufficient financial resources. europe is young and needs young people with skills. to do this, we need to invest in education so that young people can benefit from jobs that match their skills.
the erasmus programme helps to improve the skills of young people and makes it easier for them to find a job. we must not risk this investment in future generations! i urgently appeal to the commission and the member states who have asked for 5 million euros less and who should be covering these gaps with funds that have not been accessed! this budget cut will only increase inequalities between young people and the erasmus programme will become a privilege for students with better financial situation, instead of a right for everyone! i would also like to propose an extension of this program. an initiative that could function as a mechanism to promote the erasmus brand outside europe. such a move would not only improve cooperation with countries such as the us, japan, australia and new zealand, but funds would no longer be limited to the european area. the erasmus programme is in danger and we should not play with the future of young people!
in writing. i welcome the firm position taken by the european parliament (tuesday) and the european commission (wednesday) in favour of the continuation of the erasmus programme, while also standing up for the values which underpin it. erasmus has enabled 2.5 million european students to travel, study in another country, and experience another european culture in the 25 years since it was launched. these included 35,000 romanian students since 2000. i will allow a comparison with another european programme, which is of the same age and has had a similar evolution: the european food aid programme, also established in 1987. this programme, which currently benefits 18 million citizens, or more than one in thirty europeans, has been in jeopardy for the past few years. i congratulate the european commission on its recent initiative to create a fund for the assistance of disadvantaged people in the european union for the period 2014-2020, which will replace the food aid programme. the two programmes, erasmus and food aid, now a quarter of a century old, are two european programmes par excellence which must continue and develop.
in writing. other we are aware of the current difficult economic situation in the member states of the european union (eu), but i feel it is unworthy that the erasmus programme or cohesion fund support for poorer regions is jeopardised by funding problems. one of the milestones in the eu's success story is the erasmus programme, which requires some €90 million to continue its tradition. it is a great opportunity for the beneficiaries to gain a unique experience. in the community budget, the use of this amount is also justified because it is one of the community projects that makes the benefits of the union tangible and makes the citizens feel the concrete benefits of the eu. erasmus is essentially the implementation of european values, like the euro or the schengen area, the free movement of people across borders. it is interesting that, in addition to the euro-related concerns, some member states are also pushing for reform of the schengen area, i.e. tightening the conditions for free movement of persons, just when erasmus funding is in danger. let's face it, it's a small sum compared to the common budget or the european debt crisis. it is unacceptable to jeopardise the most popular eu-related initiatives by restricting them, thus undermining the professional prospects of the next generation and fuelling euroscepticism among young people.
mr president, i support the agreement between parliament and the commission. the single market was formed to increase the flow of commerce between member states, without barriers. today, unfortunately, that is not the reality. we need to assure our citizens that they benefit from eu membership and that they all belong to the same community. to make that a reality, we must further deepen the single market, thus increasing competition, economic growth and job creation, and making available more money to increase social benefits. we must accomplish this, but how do we do it? we must promote harmonisation; we must create a single rail system, for example; we must introduce standardised rules for small and medium businesses. we need less regulation and clearer regulation. harmonisation is vital for the single market and for our citizens.
i voted in favour of this report because strengthening the single market is a key element in the recovery of growth and employment. to this end, i believe that existing obstacles, such as free movement in the single market, must be removed as soon as possible. this will enable citizens to enjoy all their rights to the full. romanian citizens still face restrictions, but they are not justified and should be removed. in the context of the economic crisis, it is all the more important to address the identified gaps and barriers. this will help us to innovate, grow, be competitive and build confidence in the single market. i would like to stress the importance of better governance, with improved cooperation as the main objective. moreover, i believe that the economic and social well-being of the citizens of the union must be at the heart of the approach.
in the context of the current global financial crisis, it is important to remember that the european union must also play its part in the changing global economic competition. some say the 21st century will be the century of asia, let alone china. among the emerging countries, the asean member states - singapore, malaysia, vietnam, indonesia - will have the capacity to achieve amazing economic performance. in this context, we must do everything we can to ensure that the eu develops its trade relations with the region, especially with those states that are already well-functioning market economies. one of these steps is the proposed free trade agreement with japan, which, based on the experience of a similar agreement with south korea, could have a significant trade-enhancing effect and thus bring benefits to both parties. we know that the elimination of customs duties and charges which stand in the way of free trade is not the most difficult task, nor is the removal of non-tariff barriers the key to achieving genuine free trade. europe needs to pay more attention to east asia, as there is still a lot of potential in trade with the region.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the conclusion of the stabilisation and association agreement between the european union and serbia marked a historic moment in the relationship between the two parties. the granting of candidate status to serbia this year was also another step forward in its approach to the union. i believe that by adopting these additional procedures for the application of the stabilisation and association agreement and the interim agreement, we will be able to stimulate trade with serbia in the agricultural and fisheries sectors. the union will also be able to ensure that serbia respects the conditions of competition when it introduces products to the european market. last but not least, these procedures will stimulate serbia to advance reforms in other key areas with a view to deepening cooperation with the european union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this regulation which will enable the european commission to ensure the correct application of the interim agreement between serbia and the european union and thus the functioning of the trade provisions, which are so important for consolidating a stable and prosperous society in serbia and for leading this country on the road to accession to the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation on certain procedures for implementing the stabilisation and association agreement (saa) between the eu and the republic of serbia and for implementing the interim agreement between the ec and the republic of serbia. the saa and the interim agreement provide that certain agricultural and fishery products originating in serbia may be imported into the union at reduced customs duties within the limits of tariff quotas. it is therefore necessary to lay down rules governing the management and review of these tariff quotas in order to allow for their detailed assessment. it is appropriate to use the consultation procedure for the adoption of measures immediately applicable in exceptional and serious circumstances, given the effects of such measures and their sequential logic in relation to the adoption of definitive measures. where a delay in the imposition of measures would cause damage which would be difficult to remedy, the commission services should be empowered to adopt provisional measures with immediate effect. in order to ensure the correct and harmonious application of the interim agreement, the commission proposes an implementing regulation laying down the rules and procedures for the adoption of detailed rules for the implementation of certain provisions of these agreements.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the standards applied by the european union when it comes to seed control must also be respected by third countries exporting these products to the union. the production of these seeds should also be carried out in compliance with all the safety standards imposed by the union. only in this way can we ensure that there will be no risk to human or animal health. it is important to know whether the seed marketed in the union, including seed which is not definitively certified, has been chemically treated or the variety has been genetically modified. last but not least, detailed rules on the exact particulars to be mentioned on the label of certified seeds imported into the european union will have to be maintained.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur that parliament should accept the commission proposal in its current form, given the importance of continuing the seed import regime.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the amendment of council decision 2003/17/ec extending its period of application and updating the names of third countries and authorities responsible for authorising and controlling production. council decision 2003/17/ec lays down the list of countries recognised for the purpose of applying the principle of equivalence for the import of seeds, fodder plants, cereal seed, beet seed and seed of oil and fibre plants from third countries. the decision lays down the detailed requirements to be met, in particular for limiting the period of recognition of equivalence to five years, which may be extended if all relevant requirements are met. i consider that in order to ensure the supply of the eu market with the required seed, these rules should be extended by extending the deadline until 31 december 2022, even if the temporary extension currently provided for is only for five years. annex i to decision 2003/17/ec lists the countries to which the equivalence system applies. croatia already benefits from the equivalence regime and serbia should be mentioned as a participating member of the oecd seed certification system for varieties for international trade and as a member of the international seed testing association (ista) for sampling and seed testing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that more attention should be paid to good management of fisheries areas and resources. i also support the rapporteur's position on the extension of coastal zones. i think it is extremely important that the reform allows member states to take more management decisions. they could thus cooperate on a regional basis. at the same time, i think the reform that's being proposed should be towards a decentralized regime that focuses on doing these things. with the 12 miles of coastline having worked well so far, the expansion is welcome. we need a reform of the common fisheries policy to make it work to its full potential.
in writing. − fishing continues to be essential for many local economies in the european union. despite the modest overall contribution of fisheries to the economies of the member states (less than 1% in most cases), many local communities depend on the income of more than 300 000 full-time or part-time fishermen working in the union. in addition, we must take into account the related industries of the fisheries sector, which employ several hundred thousand people. yet, it must be remembered that this activity can continue only if there are enough fish. for these reasons, i believe that a policy on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources is necessary.
in writing. − i agree with the rapporteur's position to accept the current proposal to extend the regime for two years, while also continuing the proposal to extend national control over coastal fishing areas as part of the wider cfp reform package.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report and support those scientifically based measures which are genuinely necessary for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources. such measures are needed in the black sea, which has been exposed to continuous deterioration in the quality of coastal waters and exploitation pressure for the past 30 years. as a result, marine living resources have declined dramatically, leading in some cases to depletion of stocks of exploitable organisms. the annual catch was over 15 000 tonnes in the mid-1980s, but in 2008 it was barely 500 tonnes. today, only 5 of the 26 commercial fish species are exploited in the black sea. several species of sturgeon are threatened with extinction, as are dolphins, sharks, and seahorses. the seal, several species of shrimp and clams, dozens of plant and animal species have already disappeared from the black sea. i therefore support the conservation of fisheries resources, such as those included in this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy (cfp). within the framework of existing cfp legislation, article 17 (2) of council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 provides for a derogation from the principle of equal access for the area less than 12 nautical miles from the coast of each member state. the derogation shall apply from 1 january 2003 until 31 december 2012. the current proposal aims to extend this period until 31 december 2014. the management of the fishing grounds 12 miles offshore has been a success. this demonstrates that member states can manage the fishing areas. the effective and stable management by each member state within the limits of coastal zones is welcomed. in general, the effectiveness of member states' control in areas up to 12 miles from the coast demonstrates that management according to the local situation works best. we welcome the current proposal to extend the regime for two years, while continuing to campaign for the extension of national control over coastal fishing areas as part of the wider cfp reform package.
in writing. − the european union has developed precisely because of the widespread acceptance and adoption of the principles of free trade. at the same time, consumer protection is equally important by maintaining a high level of transparency as to the origin of agricultural and food products. the analysis of this agreement must start from the need to reconcile these two imperatives. i support the approval of the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs, not only because it complies with the formalities required by community law, but also because it represents a major opportunity for the republic of moldova to move closer to the european union by intensifying economic exchanges. i also believe that the conclusion of this agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova will make a decisive contribution both to the successful development of the union's initiatives in this part of europe, such as the eastern partnership, and to the establishment of the necessary climate of cooperation and mutual trust.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that there is a need for improvement in the conditions under which bilateral trade between the european union and the republic of moldova takes place. they should promote the quality of food products and, at the same time, stimulate the value of sustainable rural development. i would like to stress that the interests of the union are well protected under this agreement. at the same time, given that the republic of moldova is one of the most important eastern partners of the union, which is to conclude a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement in the framework of the association agreement with the european union, i believe that this agreement should be supported in order to improve and strengthen trade relations between the two parties.
in writing. − the european union is an important economic partner of the republic of moldova. this refers to various aspects of economic activity: foreign trade, foreign investment and remittances. the share of agri-food products in exports to the eu is much lower than in the total exports of the republic of moldova. this is due to the non-compliance of the product category with the existing technical standards in the eu. in order to address this, the republic of moldova has started the process of aligning with eu regulatory technical standards. i welcome the existence of the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs, as it will contribute to improving the conditions of bilateral trade, promoting quality along the food chain and stimulating sustainable rural development.
in writing. − this agreement is the result of bilateral negotiations concluded on 18 april 2011 aimed at addressing the potential misuse of eu geographical indications at source and at protecting geographical indications of the republic of moldova. i voted in favour of the eu-moldova agreement on the protection of geographical indications as it will benefit producers and traders in the republic of moldova and the eu and improve the conditions of bilateral trade by ensuring quality along the food chain, thus stimulating sustainable rural development.
in writing. − i consider that this report is of the opinion that the eu's interests are well protected under the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova, which aims at the mutual protection of geographical indications, with the aim of improving the conditions of bilateral trade and promoting quality along the food chain.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs. this agreement was signed to provide a suitable framework for the political dialogue between the eu and the republic of moldova. the main goal of the agreement is to promote trade, investment and harmonious economic relations between the parties and also to encourage their sustainable economic development. moreover, it is very important to underline that this agreement will provide a basis for legislative, economic, social, financial and cultural cooperation, and it will support the efforts that the republic of moldova is making to consolidate its democracy.
in writing. − geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs have started to be protected in the european union to prevent misuse, imitation of the products concerned or false indications of origin, thus ensuring a higher quality of products offered to consumers. the purpose of registering names is also to help producers to obtain higher revenues through the added value that this identification brings. since 1992, a system of registration of these intellectual property rights has been established at european level, and protection of these rights is also provided at international level, albeit less effectively. in its relations with third countries, the union shall apply the same standards for the mutual protection of geographical indications. this is also the case with the agreement with moldova, which will improve the conditions for bilateral trade. it should be noted that for products from third countries there is an additional condition to community products, namely that the names must be protected in the state of origin at the time of application for community protection. this agreement with the eu gives the republic of moldova the possibility to extend and protect its current geographical indications throughout the union, with a view to the deep and comprehensive free trade agreement within the association agreement.
in writing. − i welcome the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs, for which i was rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on agriculture and rural development. the mutual protection of geographical indications is essential to improve the conditions of bilateral trade and will bring significant benefits to eu and moldovan producers and traders. the romanian producers have welcomed the conclusion of similar agreements with other countries and are also looking forward to the conclusion of an agreement with the united states of america, the union's most important trading partner.
in writing. − i supported this agreement to increase the protection of geographical indications of foodstuffs. more and more products are having their geographical indication recognised, and this protects the unique characteristics of local, traditional food produce, brings income to traditional food-producing regions and helps to preserve our rich culinary diversity.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of the agreement between the european union and the republic of moldova on the protection of geographical indications of agricultural products and foodstuffs. the european union and the republic of moldova shall pursue the mutual protection of geographical indications with a view to improving the conditions of bilateral trade, promoting quality along the food chain and stimulating sustainable rural development. the agreement gives the european union the possibility to intervene at the source of potential misuses of eu geographical indications. moldova is the next eu eastern partner to conclude a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement under the association agreement with the european union. i believe that this agreement opens the way to closer trade relations between the eu and moldova. the proposed agreement has no implications for the eu budget.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because hunger and food insecurity are still major international problems. although we are in the year 2012, more than 13 percent of the world's population does not have sufficient access to safe food. despite technological advances and economic growth in many countries, this problem has not been eradicated. moreover, over 60% of those affected by hunger are women, confirming the vulnerability of certain groups to this phenomenon. the conclusion by the european union of the food assistance convention will enable it to continue promoting its humanitarian aid policies internationally. i believe that the eu's efforts will be better targeted and integrated into a global strategy to eradicate hunger.
in writing. − hunger and food insecurity remain major global problems, despite efforts and progress on some fronts. in 2010, about 925 million people, or 13.6% of the world's population, did not have enough to eat, 98% of the undernourished live in developing countries, and 60% of them are women. the food assistance convention 2012 aims at improving food assistance policy, requiring: a shift from a product-based approach to a more diverse, needs-based and locally adapted mix of instruments; long-term solutions through activities facilitating the transition from aid to rehabilitation or recovery programmes; donor coordination and mutual training around food assistance policy and practice. the european union will thus have to ensure that a food aid policy is established that is as effective as possible and that meets the food and nutrition needs of the most vulnerable populations on the basis of objectively identified needs. a mechanism should also be developed at european level to enable the active involvement of representatives of countries affected by emergencies as a means of increasing the legitimacy of the food assistance convention.
in writing. − today, hunger and food insecurity remain global challenges. while there has been considerable progress on some fronts over the past decade, progress on hunger and malnutrition has remained consistently low. i therefore believe that there is still a clear need for a legally binding international framework defining and providing for commitments and instruments for the provision of food assistance to developing countries.
in writing. the rapporteur stated before the vote that 15 000 people worldwide would die of starvation today alone. the eu has a duty to take the world's poor into account in the policies it implements. the eu must also think of its own poor, which is why i welcome the commission's initiative to create a fund to help the most deprived people in the european union for the period 2014-2020. let us never forget that almost 9% of europeans cannot afford a meal containing meat or fish every other day - a basic need according to the world health organisation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion on behalf of the eu of the food assistance convention (fac 2012). according to recent statistics, in 2010, some 925 million people, or 13.6 percent of the world's population, did not have enough to eat. 89 percent of the undernourished live in developing countries, and 60 percent of these are women. malnutrition is the root cause of more than a third of all child deaths, with an estimated 2.6 million deaths per year. i believe that fac 2012 will enable the eu to ensure the establishment of a food assistance policy of maximum efficiency, which will respond to the food and nutrition needs of the most vulnerable populations, based on objectively identified needs. however, it is important to prepare the ground in advance for long-term solutions through activities that facilitate the transition from aid to rehabilitation or recovery programmes, inter alia, by strengthening local production and livelihoods, thus avoiding long-term aid dependency. the 2012 fac is fully in line with the eu's ongoing efforts to contribute to poverty reduction and the eradication of hunger worldwide, under the millennium development goals.
in writing. − citizenship of the european union confers on citizens whose member state is not represented by an embassy or consulate in a third country the right to obtain protection from the diplomatic or consular authorities of any member state of the union, under the same conditions as nationals of that state, which is undoubtedly one of the clearest expressions of the union's solidarity and identity. in order to ensure that this right is not illusory and that citizens can enjoy the practical benefits of union citizenship, it has been necessary at european union level to clarify the content and manner of the effective exercise of this right and to simplify cooperation and coordination between consular and diplomatic authorities. i therefore welcome the commission's proposal and mrs bauer's report, which remove the existing obstacles when it comes to the diplomatic or consular assistance that citizens are entitled to receive when they need protection, in cases where they are outside their country of origin. i consider that the way in which the accessibility of the embassy or consulate has been defined is appropriate for assessing whether a citizen is represented or not in a third country, as it facilitates the resolution of emergency situations without delay.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that solidarity between member states must be supported. the treaty of lisbon has made it possible for any citizen of the union to enjoy, in the territory of a third country in which his member state is not represented, the protection of the diplomatic or consular authorities of any member state. this is all the more important as there are many member states that do not have a very well developed network of embassies and consulates, which may expose citizens to certain risks. the directive creates a framework for every european citizen to enjoy the fullest possible diplomatic and consular protection in any country. i think that's another reason to strengthen our sense of belonging to the union.
in writing. − the right of a national of an unrepresented member state to request assistance from the consular authorities of other represented member states is one of the rights conferred by citizenship of the union. in order to facilitate access to consular protection for eu citizens in third countries, it is necessary to strengthen the existing legal framework. in this regard, the council directive on the consular protection of union citizens abroad should extend the role of eu delegations in the exercise of consular protection and clarify the coordination and cooperation measures necessary for the day-to-day consular protection of unrepresented eu citizens. in addition, the commission should ensure that information on consular protection is made available to the widest possible public, in order to clarify that citizens should continue to benefit from the full range of consular assistance provided by member states' representations. member states should consider establishing a 'consular protection trust fund' from which the embassy or consulate of the assisting member state can advance the costs of assistance to an unrepresented national and the member state of the unrepresented national who has received assistance is to reimburse the financial advance.
in writing. - we all know that the right of a citizen of an unrepresented member state to request assistance from the consular authorities of other represented member states is one of the rights conferred by citizenship of the union. i therefore consider that one of the major problems is that citizens are not informed that they have the right to obtain assistance from the consulate of another member state if they are in a third country where their state is not represented. this new directive must also address this issue.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on consular protection for citizens of the union abroad because according to the lisbon treaty the solidarity among member states shall be sustained, therefore in everyday cases of consular protection, such as loss of identity documents, arrest, detention or death, an unrepresented citizen has the right to request the help of any diplomatic or consular authority of any member state. it has been noticed that one of the major problems for european citizens is that they have not been aware of their right to obtain help from the consulates of another member state when they are in a third country in which their own member state is not represented. for this reason i believe that we should raise awareness, to reduce citizens’ lack of knowledge of their rights, but we should also clarify that they should continue to benefit from the full range of consular assistance customarily provided by member states’ representations, and make clear that the role played by the authorities of represented member states does not mean that unrepresented member states are excluded from providing assistance.
in writing. − our first priority as representatives of the citizens of the european union is to protect them both within the eu's borders and outside the member states; this is why this measure is more than salutary. critical situations faced by citizens who are not represented by embassies or consulates in third countries can now be solved much more easily through consular cooperation at local level, which increases trust in community policies and, above all, citizens' sense of belonging to the european union project. i believe, however, that in future we must pay special attention to people with disabilities and to the treatment of critical situations in which they may be, through special consular assistance and protection adapted to their specific needs, in accordance with eu policies applicable within the member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report and stress the importance of enhanced consular protection for union citizens abroad, especially in view of a recent event in indonesia. in this country, four european citizens from my constituency were arrested for christian religious propaganda and their rights were not protected, which caused their families great concern.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a directive on consular protection of union citizens abroad. eu citizens travelling to or residing in a third country where the member state of which they are nationals is not represented at consular or embassy level are entitled to consular protection by the consular authorities of any other member state. the proposal for a directive lays down the cooperation and coordination measures necessary to facilitate the protection of union citizens in the territory of a third country where the member state whose nationals they are is not represented by the diplomatic or consular authorities of another member state under the same conditions as those enjoyed by nationals of that member state. the member state concerned is obliged to provide assistance to unrepresented eu citizens under the same conditions as its own nationals. recent crises have affected many eu citizens, for example in libya, egypt and bahrain after the democratic uprisings in spring 2011 or in japan after the earthquake in march 2011. and in everyday situations, such as serious illness or when a citizen is the victim of a crime, consular protection is often indispensable.
in writing. − in the current economic context, the ini report on 20 main concerns of european citizens and businesses with the functioning of the single market supports the process of relaunching the single market and of consolidating and making it work. the internal market is a real solution to overcome the current financial crisis and to economic development. the engine of the internal market is smes, whether we are talking about job creation or economic growth, and this report pays particular attention to them. among the problems highlighted in this report are the recognition of professional qualifications, social security, tax obstacles, access to finance, online shopping, transferability of pension rights, etc. solving these problems is essential to enable europeans to fully enjoy their right to free movement and the benefits of eu membership, and to increase their confidence in the single market.
in writing. - i voted for this report because i believe that we need a relaunch of the single market, through which we can restore the confidence of european citizens and consumers in the european project. we must therefore avoid the fragmentation caused by the protectionist tendencies of certain member states. the right to free movement, one of the fundamental freedoms of the single market, must be guaranteed within the european union. the lifting of restrictions on employment for romanian and bulgarian nationals would only bring benefits in the current context of economic crisis, where the mobility of workers should be encouraged, not inhibited.
in writing. − i believe that citizens' awareness of taxation in the european union urgently needs to be improved and the tax barriers faced by crossborder workers and employers must be reduced, in order to facilitate their mobility and to promote crossborder economic initiatives, while countering any possibility of tax evasion or fraud.
in writing. − in achieving the europe 2020 goals of sustainable and inclusive growth, we must focus all our efforts on ensuring the functioning of the single market as a key element in winning the full trust of citizens and their sense of belonging to the european union project. in the context of current technological developments, however, i believe that the consolidation of the european digital single market, in which the internet plays a key role, is an extremely important aspect. however, the present proposal makes very little mention of the european digital single market, which is why i believe that in the future we must urgently regulate it in a uniform way, which will bring significant benefits to both citizens and businesses, facilitating access to new markets and opportunities for economic growth.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the main concerns of european citizens and businesses with the functioning of the single market as it is a key element for achieving the objectives of sustainable growth, job creation and social inclusion. freedom of movement is a fundamental right which workers must be able to exercise without discrimination on grounds of nationality between workers in the member states as regards employment, remuneration and other conditions of work and employment. i support supporting the eures system and its effective interconnection with national traineeship systems as one of the ways to combat unemployment in the eu. it is also important to strengthen consumer confidence and security by ensuring the protection of consumers' personal data, the security of digital signatures, improving dispute resolution mechanisms and increasing trust in the security of the means of payment used, in order to create a genuine european digital single market. the commission, together with the member states, regional and local authorities and civil society representatives, should launch regular european information campaigns, strengthening the dialogue with citizens on the benefits of the single market, and on citizens' rights and responsibilities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of appointing mr yves mersch to the executive board of the european central bank. although i understand the arguments on gender equality presented both in my political group and in the econ committee to justify a rejection of his candidacy, i have decided to vote against this line. mr. mersch's professional experience recommends him for this position. i agree that we need to ensure gender balance in all institutional leadership structures, but these decisions are made at another level. the penalisation of mr yves mersch on the basis of gender may in turn lead to discrimination.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the anti-dumping duty is a particularly important one. i consider that it is necessary to clarify the decision to limit the investigation to a reasonable number of producers using samples. in addition, there is a need for clarification as regards the anti-dumping duty applied to imports from producers not included in the investigation. i would point out that the amendments sought must be implemented as soon as possible and must cover all categories of investigations, both new and ongoing. furthermore, i believe that the three-month time limit for determination cannot be used in many of the anti-dumping proceedings. that's why i'm advocating for his removal. the amendment of the regulation plays an important role in ensuring legal certainty.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the proposal to amend regulation no 1225/2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community. amendment of regulation no 1225/2009 is necessary in the interests of legal certainty and the principle of sound administration in the light of the judgment of the european court of justice of 2 february 2012 in case c-249/101 p brosmann and others v council. the court of justice has ruled that the sampling technique set out in article 17 of regulation no 1225/2009 cannot be applied for the purpose of establishing met claims made in accordance with article 2 (7) (c). the court found that the cooperating non-sampled producers are entitled to their claim for met, regardless of whether an individual dumping margin was to be calculated for the non-sampled companies. the court also emphasised that the determination referred to in article 2 (7) (c) must be made within three months of the initiation of the investigation.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on eu trade negotiations with japan as the eu and japan together account for over a third of world gdp and over 20% of world trade. japan's ability to remove non-tariff barriers and market access obstacles in public procurement is a precondition for the opening of negotiations on the eu-japan free trade agreement (fta). we stress that the free trade agreement must be comprehensive, ambitious and fully binding in all its trade provisions, as it must lead to a real opening up of the market. for an fta to be truly beneficial for the eu economy, the council should set a clear timetable and include the following in the negotiating directives drawn up by the commission: significant concessions on public procurement, guaranteeing market access for european companies in strategic japanese sectors, including railways and urban transport, as well as the same degree of openness as eu public procurement markets, removing barriers to market access for european smes. in addition, in the context of the march 2011 disaster, attention should be paid to energy cooperation and increased access to markets for environmental goods and services.
in writing. − the european union's development policy and the way the union delivers humanitarian or political aid are essential not only for overcoming many of the global or regional problems we face, but also as a tool for reorganising international society. at the same time, the european union must offer countries facing economic problems the prospect of their own growth and development. an institutionally important item on the european union's agenda is to increase the effectiveness of these instruments and mechanisms of foreign policy. without closer and more coherent coordination between the various sectoral policies, we risk losing resources and missing out on the main objectives. the increase in institutional cooperation within the european union is also important. i support the idea of organising regular meetings in a clearly structured way, bringing together representatives of the eu member states and those of the european parliament, to ensure consistency in the funding of these initiatives. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that one of the main objectives of the european union in terms of development assistance is the eradication of poverty and hunger in the world. but achieving these goals requires better coordination between eu policies in this area. the synergy between trade, agriculture, migration and security policies must be maximised for development policies to deliver optimum returns. as the world's leading donor of assistance, the european union must ensure that this assistance is directed and used in the most effective way. i believe that this is why we must also create stronger mechanisms to monitor the way in which the aid that the european union is distributing is used.
in writing. − i fully support the proposal to create transnational twinning partnerships between natura 2000 areas and other similar agricultural ecological management areas in developing countries, with the aim of exchanging know-how on the management of these areas by local authorities, local leaders and local farming communities; i also support the establishment of a transnational twinning centre for learning and developing know-how between natura 2000 areas and similar areas in third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as it presents a comprehensive approach to european development. the report provides the framework for positive, sustainable growth through cooperation and transparency in a variety of fields. the united nations has presented the goal of 0.7% of gni going toward development assistance. this report urges accountability within all structures. development projects and goals must be shared between member countries. eu nations must support each other as we move forward toward better infrastructure and sustainability. fishing and farming must be ecologically sustainable in order to ensure future growth. nations must also observe basic human rights by providing core labour standards and protection for migrants. within the eu, we must strive to meet this goal. by creating accountable and sustainable policies we will be able both to increase funding and to ensure that eu funds are used efficiently in development projects. democratic assessment and oversight are crucial to the success of future development.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu's 2011 report on policy coherence for development. the resolution calls for development policies to be based on: recognition of the right of a country or region to define democratically its own policies, priorities and strategies to protect the livelihoods of its people, in accordance with the un international covenant on economic, social and cultural rights. i support the commission's commitment to support small producers and promote fair, green and ethical trade initiatives. i believe that small farms are particularly important in fighting hunger and that adaptation measures are high on the food security agenda. support for women smallholders is also particularly important and should be increased. i voted to develop an integrated approach to food and to establish a dedicated trust fund to address malnutrition in developing countries and to mobilize the resources needed to carry out the basic interventions that could prevent the vast majority of malnutrition. in this respect, it is essential to intervene in particular during the critical period of 1 000 days from conception to the age of 2 years.
member of the commission. - mr president, i would like to greet each and every one of you, and thank you for your kind words about the success and importance of this week's internal market in bucharest, as in the other capitals where we have been conducting this debate throughout the past week. we are talking about a major subject which, as you know, is a central part of our regulatory agenda and markus ferber has just mentioned it. i often show this table of 29 texts to ministers and heads of state, which involve the econ committee, chaired by sharon bowles, all the parliamentarians, the coordinators and the fictitious rapporteurs, whom i thank. this central piece is somewhat parallel to what we are doing with othmar karas on capitalisation and prudential measures for the banking sector, so that we have transparency, accountability and security for investors and savers throughout the financial markets, leaving no room for regulatory arbitrage, within the single market or vis-à-vis the other g20 partners. i therefore sincerely thank mr markus ferber for his commitment and for sharing with him the objective - which he mentioned - of being able to start the trilogue discussions very soon. we share the same objectives on the mifid directive on a number of issues, and the report you have prepared, mr markus ferber, reinforces and consolidates our own proposals. firstly, as regards the structure of the market, commission and parliament, we want all forms of negotiation, whether multilateral or bilateral, to take place in a transparent environment. parliament has opted to introduce a definition of the over-the-counter market, coupled with an obligation to trade on transparent execution platforms for small-scale transactions. i'm willing to investigate this lead; however, the possible removal of the otf (organised trading facility) category for the equity market must be analysed very carefully. we must also weigh the consequences of such amendments against our own proposal. if we limit multilateral trading to the regulated markets and the so-called mtfs, we will be abandoning the current situation, which allows high-frequency traders to cross-order with investors on certain platforms, without the latter having a say. we must therefore think carefully before limiting the scope of the tfo in this way. secondly, high-frequency trading. if we want to encourage the migration of transactions to multilateral and transparent trading platforms, then, yes, we need to better regulate high-frequency trading, which is precisely on its preferred terrain when it comes to these platforms. again, i think i can say that we share the same goals. in general, this text is an opportunity to set the rules on high frequency trading straight. i am prepared to acknowledge - i have said this before - that there is some use for high frequency trading to provide liquidity but it is undeniably, at the same time, a source of systematic risk to the markets. in the banking sector, we have made a vigorous effort to monitor and reduce this type of risk. we cannot and must not be less ambitious in the field of markets. that is why the commission has proposed a set of specific rules to guide and hold these actors to account. they will now have to be licensed and supervised by the competent authorities. they will also have to commit to providing liquidity to the markets. i sincerely thank your rapporteur, markus ferber, for proposing to maintain these points and i would also like to remind you that the commission is continuing to vigorously take this debate beyond the european union, in international fora, so that we can achieve a level playing field in regulation, achieve high common standards. thirdly, the commodity derivatives markets. these markets are not financial markets like any other, since their proper functioning involves the daily lives of all consumers and, as we know, in some developing countries, involves the food security of a large part of the population. i think that speculation on raw materials and the consequences that this speculation may have on the food security of a number of countries is absolutely unacceptable. i would like to make it very clear that i support your proposals which are both to strengthen your position limits regime while preserving the possibility for commercial firms to use these markets when it really comes to hedging. fourthly, the introduction of a european system for the provision of services by firms from third countries. i am glad that our proposal has been supported by parliament. i believe that this system is the best way to ensure effective regulation of international markets and to avoid any risk of regulatory arbitrage, as i said at the beginning of my speech. this is very important in the context of regulatory convergence both at the g20 level and also at the financial stability board. ladies and gentlemen, this important debate gives me the opportunity to raise two or three other subjects by telegraph on which we should also maintain our high level of regulatory requirements. firstly, the transparency of the negotiations. we must be firm and not take the risk of giving certain actors the opportunity to continue negotiating in complete opacity by means of specific provisions. the level of transparency should be the same regardless of the technology used, regardless of the type of investor, whether retail or professional. the second area of vigilance is the protection of investors. we want, we must move towards legislation that improves investment conditions by clarifying the role and financial interests of each party. for this reason, i do not think that simply disclosing the fees of intermediaries would ensure an adequate level of investor protection or an adequate level of independence. the proposal we made to prohibit the charging of fees for independent advice and portfolio management seems to me to guarantee greater security and independence. these are the only ways to attract sound investors and sound investment. we must also maintain our demands as regards the range of instruments which can be considered as not being complex. too much of it would increase the risk that inappropriate products would then be sold to investors. the last point is non-discriminatory access. i am convinced that creating the conditions for healthy competition in the postmarket is necessary to create a genuine single market in financial markets and to prevent excessive concentration of risk in monopolistic market infrastructures. that is what i wanted to say very frankly, ladies and gentlemen, in the dialogue that is going on between us. i was moved by what markus ferber said. i confirm to him my own and my teams' readiness to continue working and to succeed as quickly as possible in concluding, on an ambitious, rigorous and demanding basis, this major piece of legislation, the mifid directive. we must find the right balance together to win the confidence of investors and i believe we can work together to achieve this.
on behalf of the epp group. first of all, i would like to congratulate mr markus ferber on the two reports which have been debated today. through the excellent work of the rapporteur, these two reports have been supported by all the members of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. i hope that the european parliament's plenary will also vote on these two reports by a large majority. i express this hope because the two european regulations are coming to fill the regulatory gaps in the markets where complex financial instruments are traded, such as derivatives. i would like to point out that in my country, romania, a major scandal has recently erupted, caused precisely by transactions in financial instruments and markets lacking in transparency and not subject to the supervision of the authorities. these transactions caused losses to investors and seriously damaged the credibility of the romanian stock exchange and the supervisory authority, even though the transactions in question were not subject to supervision and had no connection with the stock exchange in romania. moreover, investors have extremely limited possibilities to bring legal action against the persons who executed these transactions in cases where they breached the mandate entrusted to them by the investors. that is why i will vote for both reports, so that otc markets and other trading platforms for financial instruments, which are not subject to regulation and supervision, become transparent, protect investors' interests and come under the supervision of the relevant authorities. (the speaker agreed to answer a question after the blue card had been raised, in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – i am not quite sure whether i understood the question correctly. i think the proposal for a regulation made by the commission is good. i am very happy to support that proposal in parliament.
as early as 2009, the high level group on financial supervision, chaired by jacques de larosière, stressed the importance of stronger regulation of the financial system. today's compromise text on financial instruments is an important step both towards increasing the transparency of high-frequency trading and towards eliminating speculation on agricultural products. in july of this year we saw a 10% increase in food prices, largely caused by speculative activities. the un food and agriculture organization has called for global coordination in the fight against commodity speculation, highlighting the harmful effects of this type of behaviour on price volatility and showing that the latter has registered an alarming speed since 2007. at the same time, high-frequency trading, an unfortunately significant component of financial markets, has caused instability and serious damage to the european economy. in this context, i would like to express my support for a report that will make financial markets more transparent and efficient.
the economic and financial crisis has accentuated the deficiencies in the functioning of financial markets and their evolution has highlighted the need to strengthen the regulatory framework for markets in financial instruments. i would stress the need for a global regulatory framework to guarantee a higher quality of operations. its expansion is justified by the increasing complexity of the range of services and instruments that has led investors to increasingly turn to this type of market. i believe that this will help to preserve the integrity and efficiency of the financial system. i would point out that trading activities must take place on regulated venues and must be defined in full transparency and that these criteria should apply to all types of trading venues.
i would like to thank mr gauzès for a very good report on the european semester. i have attended several meetings with representatives of national parliaments on this issue and i would like to present to you two conclusions from these meetings. first conclusion: the european semester is essentially a political process defining important choices for citizens' lives, and the report responds to these requirements with regard to the role of the european parliament and the role of national parliaments. the second conclusion is that in many member states national parliaments are not consulted precisely at the stage when governments are drawing up draft stability or convergence programmes, draft national reform programmes, draft programmes for job creation. i think that we, the european parliament and the european commission, have a duty to emphasize this point because, as a rule, national parliaments are involved in this process when they are presented with the draft budgets for next year.
structural reforms and fiscal consolidation must continue to overcome the current sovereign debt crisis. but they can only work in the medium to long term. to achieve a more integrated economic union, better coordination between member states' macroeconomic and budgetary policies is needed. the european semester is the appropriate framework for ensuring effective economic governance. it was originally designed to help identify cases where member states' budgets are not sustainable and the possible negative side effects. but since then it has developed into a powerful system of economic and fiscal coordination. they believe that the proposed measures should be improved to increase competitiveness and minimise imbalances. moreover, we should have a consistent and sustainable approach if we are to make progress.
i too welcome the commission's proposal to increase the use of innovative financial instruments. their introduction has been beneficial and has enabled the union to stimulate investment in the real economy. their visibility needs to be improved in order to achieve the union's strategic objectives. i stress that the continued development of innovative financial instruments will help to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. but the increase in the number of instruments requires overcoming more regulatory and governance challenges. in this context, the legal framework plays a particularly important role, and it must be as simple and transparent as possible. i also draw attention to the need to ensure that innovative financial instruments are attractive to public and private investors.
innovative financial instruments are particularly important in the current period for economic recovery and the achievement of the strategic objectives of the european union. i regret, however, that they have a field of application that is still largely undefined and subject to rapid change, and that in practice they are limited to projects with short- and medium-term profitability. that is why i advocate that innovative financial instruments be used to generate smart and sustainable economic growth. public-private partnerships should be encouraged, particularly through smes, which should be continuously supported in research and innovation through various financial participation instruments. in addition, in order to facilitate access to these new instruments for as many investors as possible and to encourage their involvement, extensive information campaigns should be organised throughout the european union.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will start with the statement that the danube strategy is very important for the european union, because the danube region covers 14 countries – eight member states and six non-member states – which are home to more than 100 million citizens. since the introduction of the strategy i think we have been even more convinced about the interdependence of these states and about how much they can benefit from the improved cooperation and coordination of their actions. we have witnessed how their competitiveness could be improved if joint action is taken together, especially in the fields of sme support, labour market policies, education and security. finally, we know very well that the danube region has been the hot spot of the two last rounds of enlargement, and we are now using the danube strategy to reach out to our potential new candidates in the western balkans. as you know, the communication on the eu danube strategy was presented by the commission in april 2011. we based it on four pillars: connecting the danube region, protecting the environment, building prosperity and strengthening the danube region. how far have we come after one year of implementation? the commission is currently drafting its first report, which will be adopted early in 2013, but i would like to share with you a short preview of our current assessment. as you know, my colleague, commissioner hahn, travelled in the region and visited several initiatives which have been started thanks to the danube strategy. it was quite clear that with the strategy we have produced a new dynamic: new cooperation at various levels – those of political actors, the business-to-business relationship and research communities. for the first time we have seen how countries are looking for joint solutions to the common challenges and how the strategy is very quickly becoming a long-term cooperation platform. what is very important for the future is how we can coordinate national and eu policies together. a clear example of how this could be done was the joint work of the ministers of transport, who adopted a declaration on the maintenance of the danube waterway, which is a commitment to very concrete actions to improve the situation on the danube. the eu is helping with providing new possibilities for renewing the danube fleet, how to make it more modern and greener. we are helping to set up a danube research and innovation fund to help researchers. the joint research centre is currently setting up a danube-wide set of data to improve decision-making for these actions and the gathering of environmental data. we are very pleased that police cooperation is also becoming a key priority for the member states in the danube region. and what must not be overlooked is how we can jointly promote a danube tourism brand for the european union. these are only some examples. yesterday commissioner hahn opened a new bridge between romania and bulgaria, the calafat-vidin bridge. i think it is very important to say that this is only the second crossing point at the border, which is longer than 600 kilometres. i believe that in the future we will see far more concrete transnational projects, because there are already more than 50 projects which have been studied and labelled as the danube regional projects and now they are waiting for the decision on how they will be financed and implemented in the future. the issue of financing is of course crucial to further success. the strategy cuts across different commission policies, and therefore we are trying to introduce the element of the macro-region into our future common strategic frameworks, partnership contracts and operational programmes, where we would need to see how financing could also be targeted at these very important danube projects. i would like to recall that there was a clear request from the council and the european parliament to evaluate the concept of the macro-regional strategies by mid-2013. this will be a very important moment in terms of assessing how successful this concept is. to conclude, i would like to thank the european parliament for very instrumental work and support, and for its technical assistance to the danube strategy, which is very much appreciated by the recipients and by the commission.
on behalf of the epp group. the evolution of the crisis has confirmed that interconnected markets are much more resilient, stronger and more willing to adapt quickly than isolated or fragmented ones. a stronger europe therefore means a more integrated and united europe. the answer is clear: more europe. president barroso mentioned last week in bucharest that progress had been made in this regard, but not enough. friends of cohesion and supporters of better spending must come together for growth. the danube strategy offers a unique opportunity for actors from the competitiveness and convergence regions to come together around this common objective. the challenges of the danube macro-regional strategy are unprecedented measures to test the performance of the eu's integrated policies by involving actors from the riverine regions in governance at several levels. the reinvigoration of the danube-rhine corridor facilitates the transport of goods within the eu and creates an opening to the east and to third countries. the resulting benefits contribute to the competitiveness of the danube regions, support sustainability objectives by reducing road transport and create employment opportunities. of course, the benefits of the strategy are also found in the socio-cultural sphere. the promotion of the heritage of the danubian cultural heritage may have as its aim the creation of a danubian brand. unfortunately, we are currently facing some obstacles to the implementation of this strategy. yesterday, commissioner hahn, on the site of the calafat-vidin bridge under construction across the danube, said that more connections are needed on a 650-kilometre section where there is currently only one bridge. in order to be successful, the strategy must give priority to removing the obstacles to cross-border connectivity. finally, i would like to ask you a question. the commission's position on the danube strategy is clear: no additional funds, no new laws enacted and no other administrative structures. but do you think that certain points in the commission's position deserve to be revised if the actual results of the evaluations are to be positive? and in the same vein, for the new dynamic you have mentioned, is the commission considering direct intervention measures where there are blockages at interregional level or, in particular, crossborder?
cooperation in the danube basin has been strengthened over the last few years, and the fact that a significant part of the countries through which the river flows are members of the european union has been and is the main link in this cooperation. the european union is developing new cooperation instruments in this area, such as the danube strategy, and i hope that this will provide the appropriate framework for as much exchange of experience and good practice as possible between local and regional authorities in the danube basin, in order to implement the objectives proposed by this strategy. only through constant exchange of experience, scientific assessments of pollution situations and strong political will will it be possible to implement a correct management of possible cases of accidental pollution or large-scale disasters across borders. only together can the riparian countries work towards common goals, but also through adequate funding for this important project.
the danube, east of the black forest, links countries that were or are waiting to join the eu to catch up economically and socially. the danube strategy is therefore very important, as it symbolises the unity and solidarity that exists between the western and eastern halves of the continent. the danube region strategy should be seen as a plan for the implementation of the union's cohesion policy for a group of countries. the only thing left to do is to give substance to the strategy, with concrete projects that can lead to the common, coordinated development of the states of the region and the rebirth of central europe. this is also a good opportunity to rethink cohesion priorities in order to ensure that investments are actually carried out that bear fruit in the long term and have a positive impact on the quality of life of citizens. i wish the member states involved much success in finding, and we will find, the most effective forms of cooperation.
by its resolution of 15 february 2011, parliament requested the commission to inform and regularly consult parliament on the progress made in implementing and updating the eu strategy for the danube region, as well as on union-funded projects related to the danube region. the commission has informed us that it will publish the first report on the implementation of this strategy early next year, and we hope that it will be updated at the latest every two years. the danube forum of the european parliament organises regular meetings on the priority areas of the eu strategy for the danube region, to which the coordinators of the priority actions have also been invited. according to the information provided by them, not all member states have submitted projects for the respective priority actions, and the projects submitted are at different stages of development or implementation, some of which have not secured funding. the regulations on the structural funds for the next financial period and the connecting europe facility are being discussed during this period. we call on the member states to include already now in the sectoral operational programmes for the period 2014-2020 the strategic projects related to the european union strategy for the danube region and for the future period we call for a budget line dedicated to the danube strategy.
the strategy for the danube region, initiated by romania and austria, can bring a number of particularly important benefits to this region, but at the moment, unfortunately, i see a number of rather wide-ranging problems. in order to fully exploit the opportunities offered by the danube and to ensure economic, social and territorial cohesion in this area, we must first secure substantial funding. given the limited resources of the community and the fact that the absorption of european funds is currently very low, i believe that the member states, together with the european commission, must make further efforts to improve the absorption of european funding and to attract private capital. only then will this vital area for europe become an important engine of our economy and make a substantial contribution to the increase of european welfare, being a factor of stability, development and prosperity in the european union.
the danube strategy has been an important topic for me since i applied for the current mandate of the european parliament. it contributes to identifying coordinated solutions to environmental, transport and economic development problems in the region. the strategy has enabled the development of infrastructure projects of particular importance for the whole region. one of them is the calafat-vidin bridge, co-financed by european funds, which is due to be completed in 2013. another important project is the tourist mini-port of st. george, inaugurated in 2011, which will lead to a substantial increase in tourism in the danube delta. there is clear evidence of how the danube strategy is boosting cooperation in the region. however, there are also a number of shortcomings, particularly when it comes to the funds available. the future union budget should provide separate funding for the strategy and the projects developed under it.
in writing. the european union has always taken on the regional dimension of its initiatives. the whole process of european integration can be seen to some extent as an expression of regional awareness problems and benefits which, because of their geographical proximity, cannot be the subject of action by states alone. it is all the more important that the danube region, one of the historical points of development of european civilization and economy, develop its potential and become a main axis of the european union once again. the development by the european union of a multi-field strategy for this region is important not only from the perspective of the complex areas addressed environment, transport, economy or governance. the european strategy for the danube region has a major role to play, because it is a true test of the institutional capacity and direct benefits of the integration project. what most countries in the region want is not necessarily the contribution of material, human or financial resources, but a real transfer of expertise and experience. protecting the environment, developing a more interconnected public transport system or building an integrated and efficient system of environmental protection requires, first of all, institutional strengthening of the cooperation process, together with the extension of good practices in the areas concerned.
the danube and its tributaries form one of the most important water systems in europe. the danube river has played a crucial role in the political, socioeconomic and cultural development of central and south-eastern europe. it is the world's most international watershed, covering 817,000 km2, one third of europe and crossing 18 countries. the danube is of paramount importance for europe's biodiversity. more than 5,200 species of flora and fauna are found in the danube delta. however, the river and its life have suffered considerable losses, especially in the last century. today, the danube basin covers only 20% of the original water surface, of which only half is still naturally occurring. many areas are polluted, and faulty sewage systems and construction have increased the risk of flooding and compounded the problems caused by pollution. in view of the above, i believe that a european union strategy for the danube region is necessary.
i would like to congratulate mr nikiforos diamandouros, the european ombudsman, on a report which, once again, enjoys such substantial political support and recognition of the contribution of the european ombudsman. it is rare to have such support and recognition from the commission, one of the favourite targets of your investigations. i would also like to highlight the contribution that the european ombudsman has made to improving the culture of good administration, both at european and national level, as well as the excellent cooperation that the committee on petitions has had with you not only in 2011 but systematically over the years. finally, our report says something that should worry us, vice-president šefčovič: 58% of the investigations are directed at the european commission. moreover, in 2012 there continue to be cases, including at the committee on petitions, accusing the european commission of a lack of transparency and a lack of cooperation in its relations with european citizens. finally, i wish you success, mr european ombudsman, and i hope you will have the same success in your efforts to convince national ombudsmen that they too have a fundamental duty to serve their own citizens.
the european ombudsman's 2011 report focuses on supporting people directly, informing citizens and other stakeholders, cooperating with national ombudsmen, implementing simplified procedures that are more accessible to citizens, and delivering results for the benefit of complainants. in 2011, the ombudsman helped more than 22 000 citizens, of whom 2 510 lodged complaints, 1 284 requested information and over 18 000 obtained advice through the interactive guide on the ombudsman's website. in over 65% of complaints handled in 2011, citizens' rights were put into practice by opening an investigation into the case, transferring the case to a competent body or directing people to the institution they should have addressed. i welcome the fact that around 61% of complaints received in 2011 were lodged via the internet and that more than half of the complaints thus submitted were received via the electronic complaint form on the ombudsman's website.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mrs mazzoni, on her work on this very detailed report, and mr diamandouros on his work in 2011. i also welcome the fact that the total number of complaints lodged has gradually decreased. moreover, the ombudsman was able to deal with the vast majority of cases concerning maladministration in the activities of the union institutions. i also think it is commendable that the ombudsman is striving to further reduce the number of complaints that fall outside his remit. the information provided for this purpose is clear and precise and aims to steer complainants in the right direction. the new approach also aimed at changing the procedures to make them more accessible to citizens. at the same time, i would like to welcome the fact that there is close cooperation between the ombudsman and similar bodies in the member states.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, firstly i would like to say that the european commission agrees with many points of the present european parliament’s draft resolution on russia’s accession to the wto. although the wto accession process of russia was long, the results are impressive. our exporters will now find it easier to access russian markets. reductions in customs duties will mean savings of eur 2.5 billion a year. our services industries will also have easier access – particularly in finance, telecommunications and retail. moving goods across the border will be eased with the new rules on customs valuation, fees and transit procedures. russian export duties on many raw materials have been capped and will be reduced for key inputs like wood, and we will have a more predictable regulatory environment for our investment in russia. however, russia has taken a number of protectionist measures that cause great concern – both in terms of russia’s willingness to play by the rules of the wto and of their significant negative impact on the eu economy. for example, russia’s decision on levying so-called ‘recycling fees’ on imported vehicles is problematic, because it discriminates against european producers and infringes the most basic wto rules, and duties on cars are now higher than before russia’s wto accession. russia’s ban on live pig imports is a clear case of a regulatory measure acting as a tool of trade protection, lacking any valid scientific basis, and is disproportionate to the issues it seeks to address. we have identified a list of more than 300 products with discrepancies between the applied import duties and the agreed tariffs in the wto, and in most cases giving least-favourable treatment to eu exporters in sectors like paper, agriculture, automotive products and textiles. lastly, the preferential export duties for our wood imports from russia agreed upon prior to wto accession are still not in place. we will start by trying to find agreed solutions, failing which we will not hesitate to enforce our wto rights if they are violated. the commission takes note of the european parliament’s policy study on russia’s wto accession, which correctly concludes that membership of the wto is only a starting point for the sustained and diversified growth of the russian economy. what is needed is a thorough reform of the domestic economy and business environment. only russia can choose to pursue such a reform, but the eu is willing to help through a new framework agreement. in this context, the european commission is not asking for new market access commitments. however, there is scope to break new ground on a range of regulatory issues, and europe has one of the world’s most advanced regulatory regimes and useful experience to share. this agenda is complicated by the creation of a customs union between russia, belarus and kazakhstan. the european commission’s priority remains to develop our bilateral trade relations with russia first, as it is the only wto member among these three countries, and the political situation in belarus remains a serious matter of concern.
russia's accession to the wto at the end of eleven years of negotiations offers a new perspective on relations with the european union, which have been characterised by an asymmetry in trade. russia has thus committed itself to aligning its trade rules and practices with wto standards, in particular with regard to non-discriminatory treatment for imports of goods and services, ensuring transparency in the implementation of trade measures, reducing agricultural subsidies and improving intellectual property rights. i believe that russia's efforts in this direction are substantial and that the swift implementation of these commitments will facilitate trade with wto member states, encourage new job creation and contribute to the growth of russia's gdp. at the same time, the decision to join an international trade organization involves not only advantages but also compliance with rules agreed upon. arbitrary measures such as the ban on imports of animals from the european union should therefore be avoided in the future. it should also be borne in mind that the negotiations for a new eu-russia agreement will be centred on the wto obligations of both parties, which is a good opportunity to establish common principles and objectives in the field of trade. i support the idea of including in the new agreement a substantial and legally binding chapter on energy, with a view to ensuring a transparent and non-discriminatory energy market, and a chapter on sustainable development, through which we encourage russia to respect both human and workers' rights and international environmental standards. last but not least, member states should establish a list of common interests so that their approach in future negotiations with the russian federation is a concerted one.
i welcome russia's accession to the wto on august 22. it will facilitate investment and trade and accelerate the modernisation of russia's economy, providing business opportunities for both russian and eu companies. i consider the long-term strategic partnership between the european union and russia to be important and stress the importance of strengthening the energy partnership. the intensification of energy cooperation represents an opportunity for both sides to deepen economic and trade cooperation in an open and transparent market, taking full account of the union's need to diversify transport routes and energy suppliers. this cooperation must be based on transparency, equal access to markets, infrastructure and investment, and a legally binding framework guaranteeing the reliable and regular supply of energy to all eu member states, based on equal standards. i believe that the main objective should be an open and transparent energy market between the european union and russia. finally, russia's accession to the world trade organisation will facilitate the development of trade in the black sea region as well.
russia's accession to the world trade organisation is a good opportunity to boost relations with the european union. the wto provides the best framework for the development of trade between both parties. on the other hand, russia must work towards full wto integration and better compliance with wto rules. i am particularly concerned about russia's decision to ban imports of live animals from the european union. the measure was not taken on the basis of a detailed analysis and is in breach of wto rules. i also note that there are still barriers for european companies when it comes to awarding public procurement contracts. russia needs to show greater openness in its trade relations with the union, as strengthening trade within the wto is in the interest of both parties.
russia's accession to the wto is in its own interests, but also in the interests of the european and global economy as a whole. the world bank estimates that productivity will increase, with positive effects on gross domestic product, as russia will be able to attract new foreign investors and acquire quality technological products. the european union is russia's main economic partner, with over eur 138 billion worth of products exported to the eu, and russia's integration into the multilateral trading system and, by implication, its adherence to the rules established by it, is a step towards improving the eu-russia bilateral relationship.
i, for one, welcome russia's accession to the world trade organization after 18 years of negotiations. romanian producers, especially those of animal products, are eager to enter a market with huge consumption potential where, unfortunately, they have so far faced arbitrary and sometimes hostile measures. but there are still problems, some of which have already been raised in the debate. russia must eliminate protectionist measures, such as the ban on pig imports. last but not least, he must stop abusing his health. i would like to remind you of the attitude of russia in march when it banned imports of live animals from the european union in the wake of the schmallenberg virus crisis, even though the restriction was not in line with the standards of the international organisation for animal health. the examples could go on and on. last but not least, i would like to recall the position of this parliament, which has made it clear that we must expect our agricultural trading partners to meet exactly the same standards of quality and food safety as we expect from european farmers. i ask the commission to consider all means of action to ensure that russia's accession to the wto will bring commercial benefits to both russian and european farmers and that the relationship will not be an unbalanced one, as it has been in many other situations.
i would like to draw the attention of my colleagues, and in particular the commission, to a very serious problem which has made it impossible for a number of romanian ngos and foundations to operate in recent months. the operational programme in the human resources development sector in romania has suffered setbacks, which have led the commission to freeze the funding of the projects it has won for the duration of the investigations. of course, i am not disputing the legality of the investigations and the need to expose abuses, but i would simply like to draw attention to the unfair situation that thousands of ngos' operations have been put at risk by the romanian authorities' delay in transferring the aid awarded for months. some organisations are trying to bridge the uncertain period with bank loans, but the implementation of many socially extremely useful projects has now been called into question. we cannot allow the entire human resources development programme to fail in romania because of the bad faith of a few beneficiaries or the incompetence of some public authorities.
we are all aware of the financial difficulties - and not only - faced by european farmers as a result of adverse climatic conditions, such as extreme drought in certain regions of the union. for example, in romania, drought has destroyed almost half of the crops of cereals and technical plants this year, and this situation is seriously damaging the agricultural sector. to help alleviate these difficulties, i believe that a number of measures at european union level are urgently needed. the european union must stand in solidarity with farmers whose work has been wasted by this year's drought. national and local administrations have done all they can in this situation, but the support of the european union is essential. the european union has set up the eu solidarity fund to help people in regions affected by natural disasters such as floods. solutions must also be found for drought, given that this phenomenon has major implications for farmers and food security.
last week, in conjunction with the alde group's visit to bucharest, a debate on sme financing was organised by the alde group, which was attended by more than 100 representatives of small and mediumsized enterprises and the banking sector, together with representatives of the european institutions, including commissioner tajani, and the romanian government. it was a very important opportunity to see what the real concerns of smes are, which is very important. we have often heard that parliament and the european institutions in general are very far removed from the real concerns of small and mediumsized enterprises. i believe that both we, the members of parliament, and the commission need to have as much dialogue as possible with smes so that, at european level, we can develop policies that take their needs into account as much as possible. many smes complain about the unfavourable conditions for participation in european programmes. the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european network of national experts in the field of smes, and the creation of a european network of experts in the field of smes.
i call on the european commission to urgently propose a strategy to counter the disastrous effects that the increase in cereals prices will have on the european market. the drought-induced under-harvest has led to alarming shortages of wheat and corn, which has been reflected in soaring food prices. the situation is affecting consumers severely. also, throughout the european union, farmers are concerned that they will not have enough to feed their animals, which will be reflected in new prices. recently, ukraine expressed its intention to suspend its wheat exports from november 15, which caused the immediate increase in the price of wheat on the chicago stock exchange. the european commission is now talking about unnecessary tensions in international agricultural markets. these tensions are not unnecessary, they reflect a state of affairs, a bad harvest, doubled by the increase in oil prices. let's not forget that prices will remain high. food prices will hit their highest level in history in the first quarter of next year and continue to rise, fueling agribusiness inflation. the european union needs a quick strategy to overcome this situation. the commission is always asked about such a strategy and it replies that we need structural measures. of course, but we also need to find solutions in time for crises like the one we are facing.
the incompetence of romania's right-wing governments over the past two years has led to financial corrections and the recent suspension of most of three programmes co-financed by the european union's structural funds. for the period 2010-2011, the commission identified serious weaknesses in the management and control system of the operational programmes 'transport', 'regional' and 'increasing economic competitiveness'. in order to ensure that this suspension does not lead to a reduction in the amounts that romania can absorb in this financial period, the romanian government has two months to remedy the deficiencies reported. i ask the european commission to be fully available and to cooperate with the romanian government in order to remedy the shortcomings and to be able to resume the co-financing from european funds of projects that can contribute to the economic and social development of romania and that romanians so greatly need.
mr president, the european union is today at a turning point. the european project is endangered by the pressure of the crisis and outbreaks of populism, extremism and xenophobia. i welcome the outcome of the recent european council and the efforts to safeguard european economies and the euro zone. what we have to focus on now is the support of our citizens. blaming the eu for the degradation of living standards, they are turning to their governments as the last resort. the european union has a huge legitimacy problem. the construction of a european identity and strengthening the sense of belonging to the european union has to be carried out by the european institutions, together with member states and the regions of europe. my strong belief is that we, the european parliament, have to play the central role in this process.
member of the commission. − madam president, i am very glad to have the chance to address honourable members today on the situation in georgia and on the recent elections. parliament contributed to the observation mission conducted in georgia by osce-odihr, and to the balanced and highly pertinent statement of preliminary findings which was released on 2 october. i want to signal my appreciation for that work, and for the ongoing commitment of all members to georgia’s long-term democratic development. i can only support the assessment made by president schulz: these elections were, in the main, competitive, free and peaceful. they indicate growing democratic maturity and underscore georgia’s commitment to its democratic path. of course, there will be important lessons to learn from these elections, and we will await the final report of osce-odihr with great interest. we should not forget the key issues that preoccupied us in the run-up to the polls – freedom of assembly, access to the media, campaign financing, and the use of administrative resources. it is important to remain vigilant on all these issues. i am glad that the european union was able to contribute to the quality of these elections through media monitoring, parallel voter tabulation, and other forms of assistance. there has been a change of government, but it is important to stress continuity in some critical areas. georgia’s foreign policy continues to be oriented towards european and euro-atlantic integration. it is important to underline that clearly, and from the start. the new government has also already very clearly expressed its ambition to move forward at speed with critical processes such as the association agreement, the deep and comprehensive free trade area negotiations, and the visa liberalisation process. in return, we have assured it of the european union’s ongoing commitment to support those ambitions, in terms of technical support, policy dialogue, and the effective targeting of financial assistance. last week, i had the opportunity to visit tbilisi with the deputy secretary general of the european external action service, both of us representing high representative and vice-president ashton. we met with prime minister ivanishvili, the new minister of defence, irakli alasania, the new foreign minister, maia panjikidze, and the new minister for european and euro-atlantic integration, aleksi petriashvili. obviously, these will be key relationships for the european union in the coming months and years. we also met president saakashvili; we underlined our appreciation of his statesmanlike conduct, emphasised our full support for the constitutional rights of the presidency, and recalled the need for effective political opposition in any democracy. we also met representatives of civil society to listen to their impressions of the election and its aftermath. this visit was an opportunity to get to know our new interlocutors, and to stress three main points. firstly, that all european union ‘offers’ are still on the table, and we are ready to work with the new administration as quickly and as energetically as they wish. secondly, that we expect both the cohabiting partners – presidency and government – to build on the commitments they have made to a smooth and professional handover, and to support the long-term interests of georgia and its people. finally, we have of course reminded our hosts that the european union is committed to georgia’s territorial integrity. through the geneva international discussions and the european union monitoring mission, we are the guarantors of georgia’s security. we will not step away from these responsibilities, but at the same time we expect georgia to shoulder its responsibilities too. i came away reassured that georgia’s democracy is in good health, and that both prime minister ivanishvili and president saakashvili are committed to working together and to the continuation of a smooth transfer of power in their country’s best interest. they will face significant challenges during their cohabitation, and we should not be complacent, but i believe we should lend both sides our impartial support and focus on values rather than personalities. madam president, honourable members, i very much look forward to hearing your views.
on behalf of the alde group. these elections in georgia have once again demonstrated the democratic vocation of the peoples of the caucasus, and in particular of the georgian people, because they can be considered a model for the conduct of elections in a country that has faced many democratic lapses in its history. georgia has proved through these free, fair, competitive elections that it can stabilise a democracy in relation to european values, and that it is attached to these values. there is certainly a lot more to be done in georgia to ensure that this democratic process is not relative and that it is not fluidized, especially in the external context and in the conflicts that georgia has had for a very long time with its great neighbour, as a colleague said. but i think georgia should be supported, first of all in its visa liberalisation project, because this will allow georgian citizens to be closer to european values, and in the conclusion of the two agreements. the current government, dominated by the liberals, will continue its policy of european integration and georgia's euro-atlantic path. it's a government that will try to stabilize the institutions, modernize them, and it certainly won't have any kind of totalitarian temptation, which unfortunately happened before in the course of georgia. but i think georgia is a lesson to the other states in the caucasus, and i think georgia still needs our support. i think, commissioner, that what you are doing for this area must continue, because it is a successful approach of our commission, and we too must be proud of the way we have supported this country in its evolution and in its approach to the european union.
i was part of the observation mission; technically speaking, the elections were fair, which is in itself a remarkable achievement and for which i would like to congratulate the former government which organised the elections. but i believe that the "georgian dream" has used huge media and financial instruments, the latter of dubious provenance, in order to buy favors and voters, a trend already visible, i believe, throughout the region. this kind of politics creates major distortions in young democracies, because models become overnight riches, discourage work and fairness. the electoral exercise and the transfer of power were a step in the right direction, but they must be accompanied by effective and institutionalised cohabitation. unfortunately, perhaps in the heat of victory, the winners sent the wrong message by demanding the resignation of the popularly elected president. for a government that hypothetically wants to continue the association agreement and move closer to the eu, pressures and threats against political opponents are unacceptable.
i would first like to welcome the wise attitude of president saakashvili, who did not hesitate to recognise the victory of the 'georgian dream'. now, of course, everyone hopes that the dream doesn't turn into a nightmare. there are concerns, although they haven't been very clearly expressed here, because it's not easy to think that a country that has been so threatened by russia now has a wealthy man as its prime minister, a billionaire who has made his fortune in russia. let's not be naive, as someone once said. that is why i believe, as my colleagues, mrs lunacek and mr tarand have pointed out, that the problem of political corruption, and especially the status of political parties, the question of their funding, is an important item on the political agenda in georgia. finally, i would welcome the fact that the prime minister is planning to come to brussels; it is a sign that there may be a chance of further cooperation with the union.
on behalf of the epp group. respect for fundamental human rights should be a universal principle, regardless of nationality or religion. although the uae still has some shortcomings in this area, there has also been progress in recent times. the accession in 2012 to the un convention against torture and the convention on decent conditions for domestic workers demonstrates their will to continue reforms. the candidacy for the un human rights council for 2013-2015 also shows a growing openness. there is clear evidence of the uae's commitment to democratic values and its willingness to align itself with international standards. of course we cannot ignore the abuses that have taken place, but in my opinion they are isolated cases, which will become more isolated as the authorities continue with reforms.
mr president, the uae authorities have suppressed some democratic reforms. for instance, the government is detaining human rights defenders, activists and journalists. these individuals face the possible denial of their emirate identity. in addition, their lawyers are dealing with harassment and the constant threat of deportation. according to the authorities, they were apprehended in an attempt to overthrow the government. however, this accusation seems to be a cover-up to hide the fact that the government is denying its own people this fundamental right. in our negotiations with the uae government, the european parliament must be concerned with the civil rights of the emirati people. we must encourage the faciliation of the right to free expression, along with the right to a fair trial and access to unbiased legal aid. i encourage all of my colleagues to support this resolution.
i join those who have here strongly condemned the extremist attack on this 14-year-old girl, malala yousafzai, who has become a symbol of the movement for the affirmation of the rights of girls and women in pakistan. we call on the pakistani government to take urgent action to ensure the safety of her and all human rights activists. unfortunately, this barbaric attack demonstrates that extremists are determined to use any means, including shooting children, to impose their radical vision. malala was punished for daring to publicize through her blog the traumatic experiences of the taliban occupation of her region, which destroyed hundreds of schools, especially girls' schools. our resolution includes a strong call on the pakistani authorities to combat discrimination against girls and women, to respect the constitutional provisions that provide for equal rights to education for girls and boys, and to ensure the safety of students in schools. in turn, i believe that the european union has a duty to be more actively involved in combating the taliban threat.
mr president, we, as the european union, have an obligation to protect the fundamental rights of all citizens. it goes without saying that we must do so within each of our 27 member states, but we must also do our best to protect those citizens residing in non-eu states. it is our duty to call for the basic rights of pakistani women and children to be protected. malala yousafzai, a 14-year-old girl who was attacked because of her outspoken call for women’s education, is just the latest victim of violence and oppression against women in pakistan. pakistan has made efforts to curb violence, passing laws in the fight against discrimination and violence against women. we must do our part to show pakistan that this is not enough. the global gender gap index still rates pakistan as the third most dangerous place in the world for women. the union must show its strength and ensure that eu-provided assistance, trade and development aid is conditional upon pakistan’s ability to ensure basic protection and rights for its citizens. pakistan must continue to make strides by providing proper education and safety for women.
the right to education must be guaranteed to all children, regardless of nationality or religion, and discrimination on grounds of sex must be condemned. the actions of the pakistani taliban threaten both the country's internal security and its future development. in 2012 alone, as a result of the conflict with the taliban, 250 schools were destroyed and 750 more damaged. this is a matter of concern and the authorities must ensure better protection of educational institutions. but i am particularly concerned about the repeated attacks on young girls who just want to go to school. the attackers are citing religious reasons, but i don't think there's any religion that would deny women the right to education. the pakistani authorities must take all measures to prevent such attacks in the future and to guarantee equal access to education for women and men.
the author. - i regret the situation in cambodia. as you know, four human rights activists have been charged with crimes against the state. on 1 october 2012, they were convicted by the phnom penh municipal court. it's a radio station that's accused of working against the state, even though it does nothing but broadcast opinions critical of the government. only, again, as you probably know, in cambodia, the waves are either controlled by the government or they're controlled by the government. this is an alarming situation, especially in the run-up to the parliamentary elections next year, 2013. i also ask the commission to take the necessary steps to send an election observation mission. in fact, the previous one made numerous observations of improvements to the system. i think it's good to take a look at how these observations have been put into practice.
i believe that the european union, as cambodia's main donor, should be more persistent in its efforts to persuade the cambodian authorities to adopt the electoral reforms demanded by international forums over the past four years. the risks of eroding cambodia's fragile democracy are amplified as next year's elections approach. i believe that pressure is needed from the european commission to ensure fair and democratic elections, which respect the un recommendations. first of all, the excessive use of force against protesters and the forced mass evacuations must stop. we also demand the immediate and unconditional release of all critics of the regime and the acceptance of the democratic role of the opposition so that the electoral process is credible and legitimate.
although cambodia has made progress in the last 20 years towards the rule of law, the protection of human rights and the establishment of a democratic system, it must be said that the measures taken by the cambodian authorities in recent years are clearly a step backwards. the imprisonment of human rights activists, the silencing of perhaps the only free media, the illegal land grabs and evictions clearly indicate that democratic values mean nothing to the cambodian leadership. as the eu's biggest supporter of cambodia, it cannot stand by and watch the country suffer the worst human rights violations. the international community must take strict account of ensuring the democratic character of the elections to be held in july 2013, otherwise we will have to review the eu-cambodia cooperation agreement and the provision of trade preferences contained therein.
mr president, since the paris peace agreements in 1991, cambodia has made progress in improving its democracy and human rights. in recent years, however, cambodia has taken a step backwards, away from open democracy and towards a corrupt system fuelled by intimidation and violence. as the single largest donor to cambodia, the eu’s influence should weigh heavily upon cambodia’s government. we must use this influence and urge cambodia to change its election process and create an environment suitable for a free and fair election. a government that results from fraud and terror will always rule in terror and lies. cambodia must end its practice of arbitrary arrest, detention and violence against peaceful protestors. we as a union must ensure that cambodia does not diverge from its path of progress.
mr president, in recent years, various european institutions have used innovative financial instruments to manage their budgets in these times of fiscal discipline. using innovative financial instruments includes combining grants by using public and/or private funds to maximise the potential for achieving objectives. while they remain an innovative tool for agency budgets, they pose a challenge in regulating and monitoring the use of these funds. we have to ask ourselves who these individuals are and why are they donating their money in the first place. the commission must take certain preventive measures to prevent corruption and all other backdoor deals. one such measure entails the commission installing management and control systems. preventing corruption and other market abuses is vital to the economy, especially in these hard times. this is extremely important, because a single distortion of the market will ruin the whole economy for everyone. innovative financial instruments are still a crucial tool for growth and investment in the economy.
mr president, i support this piece of legislation. the recent financial crisis has exposed several weaknesses within the multinational economic framework. in order to correct these, the present sustainable development and cooperation strategy should include the proposals outlined in the amendments to the commission’s draft. for example, one proposal involves greater transparency and more oversight of less-regulated markets. the intention of this proposal is to develop effective competition between the trading of financial instruments. we also need to eliminate trade barriers and discriminatory trade practices. by abolishing these obstacles, the market system will decrease risk, better protect investors and increase the efficiency of the financial markets. it will also reduce unnecessary costs for investors and participants. therefore, the passage of this legislation will not only lead to economic growth but will also ensure that all europeans are united under one social and economic framework.
mr president, the recession is far from over in europe. since 2008, the european union has lost more than 25 million jobs. increasing disparity in wages has slowed growth and the lack of integration has hurt competitiveness. i am voting for this report in an attempt to bring about the end of the current debt crisis and lay a foundation that will prevent another crisis from happening in the future. we must continue forward and ensure that member states comply with the european strategy for growth and jobs laid out in the europe 2020 strategy. the european union must have stronger coordination between its member states for the purposes of budgetary and economic policy and certainly, in my view, we need a single budgetary and economic and fiscal policy. a more integrated and balanced union with multilateral oversight will ensure that jobs are created and reckless decisions are avoided. this will pave the way to a more successful and prosperous europe.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i consider that the commission's proposal is welcome. it is good that the negotiations on the extension of the energy star programme have been successfully concluded. the program established by the united states environmental protection agency is designed to improve the energy efficiency of office equipment. so far, it has proved effective in its objectives and targets, and has succeeded in steering the office equipment market towards greater energy efficiency. i believe that the self-certification procedure should continue in europe. this will avoid additional costs for producers and the biggest beneficiaries will be small and medium-sized enterprises.
in writing. − the conclusion of a new five-year agreement between the european union and the united states on the energy star programme, which provides for the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment, bodes well for both parties. the new regulation, which provides eu manufacturers with a simplified self-certification procedure, is particularly beneficial for smes, as they reduce the costs of third-party certification, as in the us, significantly. however, there is a risk that simplifying this procedure and automatically facilitating access for as many european producers as possible who now want to enter the us market will lead to preference being given to larger and older producers who have already consolidated their position and gained confidence in the us market.
in writing. − i voted for the legislative resolution on the draft council decision on the signing and conclusion of the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european union on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment, as new applications and functions emerge. office equipment will be responsible for an increasing share of energy consumption in the future. the us-eu agreement aims to maximise energy savings and environmental benefits by stimulating the supply and demand of energy-efficient products. to this end, a common set of energy efficiency specifications and a common logo will be used to define coherent targets for manufacturers and thus optimise the impact of their individual efforts on the supply and demand of these products. according to the agreement, the common specifications should be formulated so as to cover no more than 25% of the most energy-efficient models for which data are available at the time of specification. efforts will also be made to ensure that energy-efficient products can be identified by consumers by the presence of the label on the market.
in writing. − as european citizens and policy-makers in the member states discuss the continuation of the integration process, it is important to maintain a high degree of transparency in the decision-making and institutional structures of the european union. the european ombudsman is a key player in ensuring that the european union is open to citizens and that there is prompt communication between them and the european institutions. i support the approval of the 2011 report of the european ombudsman. given that the vast majority of complaints submitted to the european ombudsman - 61% - have been dealt with institutionally through the use of virtual means of communication, it is important that the european union in general, and the ombudsman in particular, give an increasingly important role to the internet as a tool for direct and transparent communication with european citizens. it is also important that the european ombudsman continue to work in close cooperation with both the european parliament and similar institutions in the member states, as well as with the european commission.
in writing. − i agree with the ombudsman that a simple and concise statement of the fundamental values which the behaviour of european union civil servants should reflect can effectively promote citizens' trust in the european public service and the eu institutions it serves.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the annual report on the activities of the european ombudsman in 2011. the 2011 eurobarometer on citizens' rights and the performance of the eu administration showed that citizens place a high value on their right to complain to the european ombudsman. the right to free movement and residence within the union, as well as the right to good administration, are very important to them. the main types of alleged maladministration investigated by the ombudsman in 2011 related to issues of legality (28% of inquiries), requests for information (16,2%), fairness (13,6%), reasons for decisions and possibilities of appeal (8,1%), reasonable time limits for decisions (7,3%), requests for public access to documents (7,1%), lack of discrimination (6,8%) and the obligation to reply to letters in the language of the citizens and to indicate the competent official (5,8%). the most inquiries opened by the ombudsman in 2011 concerned the commission (231), with epso in second place (42). the ombudsman publishes a brochure entitled problems with the eu? who can help you? which contains comprehensive information on the mechanisms for citizens to solve eu-related problems is an important support for european citizens.
in writing. − in a context where irresponsible behaviour such as food speculation and high frequency trading is causing poverty and increased instability in the financial system, i voted in favour of the report on financial regulation, wanting to see these types of activities eliminated.
in writing. − i voted for the amendments relating to the proposal for a directive on markets in financial instruments and repealing directive 2004/39/ec. the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid), which has been in force since november 2007, is a key pillar of the integration of financial markets in the eu. mifid establishes a regulatory framework for the provision of investment services in financial instruments by banks and investment firms and for the operation of regulated markets by operators. the document also sets out the roles and responsibilities of the national competent authorities in relation to these activities. three and a half years after entry into force, there is more intense competition between trading venues for financial instruments and a wider range of options for investors in terms of service providers and available financial instruments. these advances have been amplified by technological developments in recent years. the proposed directive amends the specific requirements for the provision of investment services, the scope of the exemptions provided for in the current directive, the organisational and professional conduct requirements for investment firms, the organisational requirements for trading venues, the current and authorisation obligations applicable to data service providers, the powers of competent authorities, the sanctions and rules applicable to third country companies operating through branches.
in writing. − i voted for the amendments relating to the proposal for a regulation on markets in financial instruments and amending the [emir] regulation on otc derivatives, central counterparties and trade repositories. the recent financial crisis has brought to the fore a number of deficiencies in the transparency of financial markets, which can cause negative socio-economic effects. i support increased transparency to strengthen the financial system. in order to increase transparency and improve the functioning of the internal market in financial instruments, it is necessary to lay down uniform requirements as regards the transparency of transactions in markets for financial instruments. in order to increase the transparency and efficiency of european markets and to ensure a level playing field for the different venues offering multilateral trading services, it is necessary to introduce a new class of organised trading facility (otf) for bonds, structured finance products, emission allowances and derivatives and to ensure that it is properly regulated and that it applies non-discriminatory rules on access to the facility. the new category includes cross-order systems as well as systems that should be eligible for trading of derivatives that are eligible for clearing and sufficiently liquid but do not have the characteristics of existing trading venues.
in writing. − regrets that no recommendation has been made on the europe 2020 objectives for member states benefiting from a financial assistance programme; i therefore consider that the commission should assess the impact of the economic adjustment programme on progress towards the main objectives of europe 2020 and propose amendments to align the adjustment programme with the objectives of europe 2020.
in writing. − europe is going through difficult times. we have to insist on the importance of quality job creation, in particular for young people, and greater focus on other eu2020 objectives, especially social inclusion. the report calls for a greater legitimacy in the whole process by better involving the ep. this is a measure that should have been taken a long time ago. in the field of employment, the report specifies that member states should combat the existence and proliferation of non-decent labour contracts and false self-employment and ensure that people with temporary or part-time contracts or who are self-employed have adequate social protection and access to training and, when feasible, advanced training, and implement related framework agreements. in the field of the budget, the report urges the council, during negotiations on the 2013 eu budget, to accept a political and public debate on the level of appropriations needed to implement the ‘compact for growth and jobs’ adopted at the june 2012 european council. these are two strong arguments why i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − the european semester is a good opportunity to improve the management of economic governance by all member states sharing a common responsibility, namely the implementation of the european strategy for growth and jobs, as set out in the europe 2020 strategy. i believe that both in 2012 and in the years to come, regional policy will continue to play a particularly important role in the development of national programmes in the european semester and, at the same time, will be a key instrument for achieving the medium and long-term objectives set. a strong and well-funded cohesion policy can prevent future economic and financial crises in europe and protect the less developed regions in particular. it is also very important to involve local and regional partners in achieving the objectives of the european union, taking into account the characteristics and different levels of development of the 271 european regions. this will lead to a greater ownership of the strategy objectives at all levels and ensure a better awareness of the objectives and results on the ground.
in writing. − i voted in favour of parliament's resolution on the european semester for the coordination of economic policies and the implementation of priorities for 2012 as the current economic situation has demonstrated that closer coordination of member states' macroeconomic and budgetary policies is needed to achieve a more integrated and balanced economic union. parliament noted that the commission's country-specific recommendations this year are encouraging a number of member states to restructure their national wage-setting systems and/or to reduce national wage levels. we stress that the commission's practice of determining wage formation and wage levels may increase the risk of workers' poverty or wage inequalities that harm low-income groups. i would stress that the autonomy of the social partners is an essential element of any functioning labour market and that it should be taken into account. i call on the commission and the member states to make the exploitation of the job-creating potential of the green economy, the health, education and social care sector and the ict sector key priorities of the 2013 annual growth survey. i also call on member states to make access to finance for smes a top priority in their national growth plans.
in writing. - i voted for this resolution because i believe that russia's accession to the wto opens up new perspectives for its relationship with the european union. adherence to common rules will give greater predictability to trade relations between the two partners. on the other hand, energy is one of the most delicate subjects when it comes to negotiations with russia. however, it is also one of the most important for the european union, due to its dependence on gas imports from russia. we remember the gas crisis in 2006, when supplies to europe were cut off. to avoid a repeat of such episodes, russia must demonstrate that it is a reliable partner. i therefore consider it necessary to include a legally binding chapter on energy in the new eu-russia agreement.
in writing. − in a globalised world, especially economically, russia's accession to the world trade organisation is an advantage because it will enable russia to benefit from a number of international trade instruments developed by the organisation. i believe that russia's accession to the world trade organisation is in its own interests, but also in the interests of the european and global economy as a whole. the world bank estimates that productivity will increase, with positive effects on gross domestic product, as russia will be able to attract new foreign investors and acquire quality technological products. the european union is russia's main economic partner, with over eur 138 billion worth of products exported to the eu, and russia's anchoring in the multilateral trading system and, by implication, adherence to the rules established by it is another step towards improving the eu-russia bilateral relationship.
in writing. − the european union is a strategic trading partner for russia, being its first source of imports, still growing, its main export destination and a key investment partner (foreign direct investment received), accounting for 47.1% of russia's overall trade; as this relationship expands, russia has become the second source of imports (eur 158.6 billion) and the fourth destination for eu exports (eur 86.1 billion) (2010 figures). russia's accession to the wto can facilitate trade flows between the eu and russia, while boosting economic growth and job creation on both sides, and the conclusion of a new agreement is seen as an additional opportunity to contribute to a strengthened partnership between both sides, while promoting sustainable development in their common neighbourhood. i welcome russia's accession to the wto, ratified by the russian state duma on 10 july 2012, and consider russia's anchoring in the multilateral trading system and the rules governing it as another step towards improving the eu-russia bilateral relationship.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution and particularly welcome the references to the well-founded concerns about russia's failure to fulfil its obligations, namely to lift the ban on imports of live animals from the eu or to return to establishing seasonal import rules for sugar. the commission must ensure that the interests of european agricultural producers are protected in the negotiations with the russian federation, in particular as regards the application of sanitary and phytosanitary measures, where only justified temporary prohibitions can intervene, and the protection of geographical indications. last but not least, the commission must ensure that the future agreement requires our agricultural trading partners to meet the same standards of quality and food safety as we require from european farmers.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on eu-russia trade relations after russia's accession to the wto because i believe that russia's accession to the wto will improve the eu-russia bilateral relationship. russia is the eu's third largest trading partner and the eu is russia's largest trading partner. in 2011, eu exports to russia were eur 108,4 billion, eu imports from russia were eur 199,5 billion and total trade in goods was eur 308 billion. i support the further development of the european union's relations with russia, in line with the principles enshrined in the partnership for modernisation, based on common interests and a deep commitment to universal values and democratic principles, respect for fundamental and human rights and the rule of law. i believe that the eu-russia partnership for modernization (pom) is a useful initiative to strengthen the new economic and trade relations between the two sides in the wto and bilaterally. i also believe that by promoting synergies between the trade and investment strategies of the two sides, the full potential of russia's economic modernisation and diversification can be realised more effectively.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because the union has repeatedly tried to establish a constructive dialogue with the belarusian authorities. the main objective was to initiate democratic reforms to ensure respect for human rights. but the authorities in minsk did not respond positively, and the september elections confirmed this. i think the irregularities reported by international observers raise serious questions about the fairness of the elections. belarus could follow georgia's example in the field of election organisation. but first, the democratic deficit should be remedied by ensuring freedom of the media and pluralism of opinion. the union should continue to use the means at its disposal to put pressure on the leadership in minsk. the belarusian authorities must engage in deep democratic reforms to regain their credibility at the european level.
in writing. − the parliamentary elections in georgia on 1 october represent an important step in strengthening the democratic process in that country. we therefore hope that the new government will cooperate with the political forces represented in parliament in order to ensure continuity in terms of achieving the objectives georgia has undertaken in the process of consolidating democracy, but also in maintaining georgia's european and euro-atlantic commitments. the european union has chosen a number of instruments such as the eu-georgia association agreement, the deep and comprehensive free trade area (dcfta) agreement and the eu-georgia mobility partnership (visa regime) to support the efforts of the georgian authorities to strengthen democracy and the rule of law, and they must be implemented through close cooperation to meet the commitments made in both the political association and economic integration plan.
in writing. − the alternation of power and its acceptance by both sides demonstrates the democratic maturity georgia has achieved. it is important that the new government maintain and strengthen georgia's european and euro-atlantic commitments. the continuity of dialogue within european instruments such as: 1. the eu-georgia association agreement; 2. the deep and comprehensive free trade area agreement; 3. the eu-georgia mobility partnership, which are intended to support georgia's european path.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the elections in georgia because i believe that the georgian people have taken an important step towards strengthening democracy in their country through the democratic parliamentary elections on 1 october, which were held in accordance with osce and council of europe standards. i consider it important that the new georgian government has expressed its commitment to further euro-atlantic integration and is determined to build on the positive results of the previous authorities. i call on the council and the commission to provide the necessary support to the new administration and to continue the ongoing dialogue to ensure continuity and maintain the pace of the negotiations for an association agreement, and to consider, in accordance with the 'more for more' principle, the possibility of stepping up their efforts to conclude the negotiations on visa liberalisation between georgia and the eu in the context of a deep and comprehensive free trade agreement. the importance of good relations between georgia and the eu will contribute to economic and social development in the black sea region.
the european area of freedom, security and justice facilitates access to justice, in particular through the principle of mutual recognition of judicial and extrajudicial decisions in civil matters. in order to progressively establish this area, the union should adopt measures in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters with cross-border implications in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market. mutual trust in the administration of justice in the union justifies the principle that judgments given in a member state should be recognised without the need for special procedures and that the duration and costs of cross-border litigation should be reduced. in order to ensure the protection of consumers and employees, to protect the jurisdiction of the courts of the member states in situations where they have exclusive jurisdiction and to respect the autonomy of the parties, certain rules of jurisdiction in this regulation should apply irrespective of the domicile of the defendant. in order to protect the rights of employees, we stress the importance of the provisions of articles 19 and 20, in particular the provision that an employer who is not domiciled in a member state may be sued before a court of a member state. in the case of contracts of employment, consumer contracts and employment contracts, the disadvantaged party should be protected by rules of jurisdiction more favourable to his interests than the general rules applicable. i would like to conclude, mr president, by welcoming the express reference to respect for the charter of fundamental rights of the union.
unfortunately, the wrongful removal or retention of a child is not an isolated or rare event. when parents divorce, differences often arise over custody of the children, and in some cases one parent may prefer to leave the country with the child without the other's consent. such situations exist in many countries of the world. before the convention was adopted, there were problems when it came to securing the return of the child, because of the difference between the judicial systems of each state. forced to live in a foreign environment, children can develop social and linguistic disorders that manifest themselves over the medium to long term. i think the accession of the eight states to the convention must be achieved as soon as possible. i would also like to ask commissioner reding whether there is an estimate of the number of cases affected by the delay and what measures the commission is considering to unlock this situation.
for the security of the union and its citizens, it is very important that we maintain strict control over substances that can be used as cluster bombs. as you know, improvised explosive devices are the terrorists' favorite tool. last year, in the oslo bombing, substances such as ammonium nitrate were used, which is included in the annex to the proposed regulation. to avoid such tragedies in the union, we must be careful. the marketing of dangerous substances to unauthorised firms or persons must be punished much more severely by the member states to discourage such practices, and national authorities are obliged to constantly check the authorisations issued. voluntary reporting of suspicious transactions in such materials will also play a very important role in avoiding dangerous situations.
mr president, colorectal cancer is the most common cancer in europe. bearing in mind the guidelines for colorectal cancer screening from 2010, last week i hosted the conference which launched a white paper setting the standards for the prevention, diagnosis, treatment and care of colorectal cancer across europe. with 450 000 new cases of this cancer being diagnosed every year in the eu, what struck me was the opportunity to reduce the number of new cases. speakers confirmed the possibility of reducing new cases by 30 % by embracing a lifestyle of healthy food, exercise and not smoking. screening can identify a further 30%. such initiatives could prevent about 270 000 new cases per year. i therefore ask the commission to urge the implementation of a local primary health strategy, to embrace a healthy lifestyle, awareness campaigns and the early introduction of screening programmes across europe so that we can meet our goals of healthy ageing by 2020.
i want to congratulate lithuania first of all on passing the test of democracy and having a social-democratic prime minister appointed by the president from a popular family. we have elections in romania on december 9th, and the incumbent president, traian basescu, who belongs to the family of the popular, just like in lithuania, has just announced that he will not take into account the election results, he will not appoint a prime minister that the majority of the parliament will give. in other words, he will appoint a prime minister of his own choosing, a prime minister who respects the national interest, as traian basescu defined it. i expect both the european parliament and the european commission to defend democracy in the european union, in each of the 27 member states. i expect a very firm and vehement attitude from the commission and parliament if traian basescu ignores the will of the majority in parliament. i also draw attention to the risk of a disinformation campaign, like the one we had this summer.
this is the man who won the romanian presidential election in late 2000. on television in vienna, that december sunday, at 6 p.m., it was announced: the new president of romania is the young writer vadim tudor. but you don't know the mafia in the balkans! he's way cooler than all the thieves in john ford, alfred hitchcock and emir kusturica's movies put together. the end result would be shamelessly overturned. since then, for 12 years, all elections in romania have been rigged. on december 9, 2012, new parliamentary elections will be held. a new and scandalous election fraud is in the works. i am sounding the alarm for the civilized world: help the romanian people not to be robbed of their will! send in the incorruptible international observers! otherwise, romania will leave europe and, like a new philadelphia experiment, will be transported to the bottom of africa.
in february 2010, i was reporting on the difficulties facing the national research and development institute for microbiology and immunology cantacuzino in my country. at the time, the institute had its license to manufacture and market injectable products, including many serums and vaccines of great public health importance, revoked. after difficult negotiations with the government of the day and the establishment of a plan of action, the cantacuzino institute regained its right to function normally. unfortunately, my repeated appeals and assistance fell on deaf ears of the pdl governments, and the situation of this institute of strategic importance, not only national but also european, continued to deteriorate gradually, reaching the verge of bankruptcy. this is the stage where it was taken over by the usl government, led by victor ponta, who, despite all the adversity, managed to put together, in record time, a strategy to save the cantacuzino institute. of course, this is only the beginning, which is why i stand before you today, reiterating my call for a more active involvement of the european institutions in monitoring and supporting the work of these institutions of strategic european importance, for the benefit of all the citizens of europe.
the european payments market must function as efficiently and accurately as possible. its full potential is still far from being reached and there are still obstacles to be overcome. paying with a card on the internet or on a mobile phone can offer many advantages to consumers. they thus benefit from more flexible, convenient and fast payment systems. there are still large differences in card payments between member states and markets remain fragmented. the single euro payments area aims to close the existing gaps. it contributes to the transformation of the market into a more innovative and competitive one. but the question is, how secure are these systems in countries where there is not yet a tradition of this, and the risk of fraud persists? i think a high level of security should be ensured, as a guarantee against the risk of fraud.
the development and widespread use of card payments on the internet and mobile phones will allow the development of european e-commerce. in order to facilitate cross-border electronic commerce and to ensure a genuine digital economy, it is essential to develop transparent, secure and efficient payment systems in the european digital market. standardisation and interoperability requirements should aim to improve the competitiveness, transparency, innovation, security of payments and efficiency of the european payments market. i consider that there is a need for greater transparency and better consumer information on surcharges and additional charges for various payment methods, given that traders often include transaction costs in the prices of their products and services and therefore consumers are not properly informed in advance of the total cost. according to the judgment of the court of justice of the european union of 24 may 2012, the mif can be considered anti-competitive. how does the commission intend to implement this decision?
mr president, virtual transaction systems are constantly being improved in order to save time and effort for users, but their security is in my opinion a reason to remain vigilant. the vulnerability of virtual transaction systems consists of two main factors: firstly, technical vulnerabilities due to the fact that virtual transactions still represent a new online practice and, secondly, the human ignorance factor. many people are easily tricked into revealing personal information online and into making unsecure transactions with third-party entities. that is why i think the most important measures which should be taken are: raising user awareness regarding internet transaction security; respecting the recommendations of secure pay; and last but not least, achieving total transparency of costs for users and the freedom to choose preferred payment methods.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i absolutely agree with the discussion and with the speeches by members saying that payments are one of the most common expressions of the single market for its 500 million citizens. it is a very rapidly evolving field and it is important that europe supports the developments providing for simplicity and safety and guaranteeing the best value for payment services used by the citizens. now, a lot has been done but we need to go forward, as underlined in the report by mr terho, who supports the objectives of the green paper and who also argues for a more integrated payment market. this integration was taken forward by the regulations establishing a deadline for the migration to a single europe payment area for credit transfers and direct debits. thanks to that, from 2014 on there will be no difference between national and cross-border payments any more. but a true and integrated internal market in payments must also involve payments by credit card, internet and mobile phone, as underlined by the speakers: we need choice for consumers; we need innovation safety to free up the potential of e-commerce. you know that we do have problems with e-commerce at this moment, because only 35% of internet users shop online because of problems related to payments. therefore there are clearly specific problems to be solved. first of all, we must defragment the payment services markets, which are far too often national. we must facilitate the access of new entrants and significantly increase the transparency of the cost of the different payment methods. we need to address issues of standardisation, interoperability, security of payments, data protection and the good governance of the system. we are currently working on all these issues, such as the multilateral interchange fees, surcharges, governance and standardisation, as well as account access and security, and we will need to find the right balance. it will doubtless involve changing the regulatory framework of the directive on payment services. the rapporteur’s report is a milestone in this debate. it constitutes a good basis for the work that we will carry out together to achieve a well-functioning digital single market beneficial to consumers. i thank parliament for its support and i have noted your call to legislate in this field. i can tell you today that your view is fully shared by the commission and will be realised in the coming months.
i welcome this initiative to improve the monitoring and regulation of the shadow banking system. prudential and market conduct aspects can be addressed appropriately through enhanced supervision. we need a global picture to identify developments in this sector, and this requires close international cooperation. we have to consider both the positives and the risks and the things that need to be fixed. in this context, i stress the importance of eliminating misconduct and reducing systemic risk. only in this way will we be able to achieve a high level of transparency and increase the safety and stability of the financial system, and only in this way will the positive effects of the parallel banking system on the real economy and the stimulation of economic growth be felt.
38% of european young people aged 9-12 and 77% of those aged 15-16 are on sites such as facebook. measures to protect children in the digital world address illegal and inappropriate content, harassment, discrimination and limitation of access to services, online surveillance, attacks on privacy and freedom of expression. the fact that personal information and data are often provided by minors and remain online may lead to their unlawful processing and to the exploitation of minors, thus potentially seriously harming their dignity, identity, personality and social inclusion. minors need to understand the potential dangers they face online, and competent authorities, families, schools and civil society need to share responsibility for the proper education and protection of children in the digital world.
we often talk about the need to teach children to use the internet in a safe way, without realizing that teachers sometimes know much less about this virtual world. in the context of the massive increase in the number of social network users, from very young ages, i believe that urgent action is vital. digital education needs to be a priority in schools so that children are aware of the dangers lurking in the virtual environment and that could affect their lives irreversibly: violent content, racism, pornography, online harassment. at the same time, teachers and parents need to acquire minimum digital skills, because otherwise we risk not being able to help children avoid the pitfalls of the internet. eu member states, public institutions and internet providers need to adopt a strategy for the firm protection of young people in the digital space.
mr president, the exposure of children to inappropriate digital content is unfortunately a negative consequence of the evolution and accessibility of technology. however, i would like to stress the importance of monitoring exposure to online and offline digital content, such as video games, which psychologically manipulate children. in this regard, it is absolutely crucial for us to fight against the risks associated with such content and to promote educational campaigns for the protection of minors against harmful activities associated with the negative exposure affecting their development. we need to ensure that all actors concerned with children’s education – parents, teachers and the media – are actively involved in a common effort to shelter minors from the psychological dangers of the digital world.
in writing. european children spend up to 40 hours a week in front of the television. they spend 88 minutes a day online (2 hours for the 15/16 age group), starting on average at age 9, but there are cases where they start much earlier, even before they go to school and can read. unfortunately, children are exposed to huge risks, such as psychological manipulation, child pornography, invasion of privacy, online gambling, commercial fraud, and behaviors that can have a range of consequences, such as cyberbullying and sexting, and other age-inappropriate elements, such as inappropriate advertising, violence, sex and so on, that generate fear and anxiety. it is our duty to defend the innocence of children and to protect them from the dangers to which they may be exposed as a result of accessing the internet or television. in this regard, the continuity of the 'safer internet' programme must be ensured, as well as the encouragement of measures to combat online crimes against minors, successfully adopted by certain member states, which facilitate the exchange of information with internet and e-mail service providers.
in writing. prevention activities, through normative education, play a key role in training children to make decisions about their online activity. for young people, their perception of what is normal and acceptable in society is very important. it is important that they have a good understanding of digital media use so that in the future they can decide for themselves which paths they want to take on the internet and which paths they prefer to avoid. since an attitude is defined as a predisposition that is formed over time and is used in judging a context, a young person's attitude to the internet is formed over time and is very likely to be the result of the attitude of friends, family or educators to this environment. i appreciate the idea of a campaign for parents to help them understand the digital content their children are manipulating and, more importantly, how to protect them. i also find it very useful to call on the member states and the commission to develop information programmes to protect against cybercrime. international cooperation between law enforcement authorities and civil society organisations involved in combating and monitoring online activities harmful to minors should be strengthened.
the report on consumer credit calls for a better level of consumer protection. we demand that financial institutions provide consumers with a personalized, comprehensive and easy-to-understand explanation of the risks involved in lending in foreign currency and the impact that higher interest rates on foreign currency loans have on rates. these explanations must be provided before the signing of any contract. in the case of credit, we stress the importance of the right to information on the costs of ancillary services and the right of consumers to purchase ancillary services, such as insurance, from alternative providers. consumers should be informed in advance of the change in interest rates in order to allow them sufficient time to examine the market and choose another credit provider before the change in interest rate becomes effective.
i welcome this report, which aims to harmonize consumer protection and strengthen competition. i agree that the crossborder consumer credit market needs to be strengthened. this will promote the functioning of the internal market. at the same time, consumers need to be better informed and have a higher level of protection. accurate and comprehensive information is needed to help consumers understand the risks they may face. this will enable them to make the best informed decisions. the supervisory authorities have a very important role to play in this respect. they must monitor and prevent the risks involved in lending in foreign currency. i also believe that more importance should be given to informing consumers about the cost of services.
the unemployment rate at eu-27 level has exceeded 10%, with the union facing extremely serious problems with regard to youth unemployment. other pressing issues are the situation of low-skilled workers, facing a declining demand for labour, and the increasing number of people living in poverty and at risk of social exclusion. recent responses to the crisis lack the social and employment policy dimension. social investment aims to prepare individuals, families and societies to adapt to changing economic conditions and labour market demands. economic governance and macroeconomic surveillance must be complemented by measures on social and employment policies. we call on the commission and the member states to adopt a concrete strategy on social investment, adequately funded, including through the european social fund.
i welcome the initiative of my colleague, which i consider particularly important in the current context. i too believe that there must be a shift from welfare states to states that invest in job creation and generate competitiveness. my main concern is the situation of young people, because they are the most affected by the economic crisis and unemployment among them has reached alarming levels. in this context, vocational training programmes are vital and the re-establishment of vocational schools is important. job creation must also be made as a result of the exploitation of own mineral resources and not only from foreign investments. facilities must also be provided to stimulate the employment of young people by reducing the contributions of employers. however, action is also needed at european level. i ask the commission, in line with the conclusions of the european council in january, to come forward with proposals to support young people.
social economy enterprises employ over 11 million people in the european union, representing 6% of the total workforce in the union and 10% of all european enterprises. the european union's structural funds and programmes play a significant role in facilitating access to finance for enterprises in the social economy sector. access to european funds should therefore be simplified, allowing for an appropriate level of flexibility at member state level. i stress the importance of a strategy and measures to promote entrepreneurship and innovative social enterprises, especially for young people and disadvantaged people. we call for the continuation of the erasmus programme for young entrepreneurs and for its attractiveness and visibility to be increased in the social economy sector.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague on his work on this report. we are currently experiencing an increase in demand for social services, due primarily to demographic change. social enterprises face difficulties in finding the funding they need, depending on their level of development. incentives are therefore needed for those providing services of general interest. i believe that first of all we must ensure access to private finance, but also the mobilisation of european funds to support social enterprises. member states could also adapt the legal framework by improving access to public procurement. last but not least, the visibility and management capacities of social entrepreneurs should be improved. this could be achieved, including through programmes such as erasmus for young entrepreneurs.
social entrepreneurs are characterised by ambition and persistence, using their energies to identify solutions to the shortcomings facing society. they are visionaries but also realists, their efforts aimed at adapting the social system to the needs of the community. global financial institutions recognise the benefits of development investments by supporting social enterprises and prefer to finance them rather than social aid programmes. i believe that social enterprises provide the necessary link between the private environment, which is focused on maximising profit, and the public environment, which must respond to social needs. combining the two approaches generates cost efficiencies and reduces losses, with the direct beneficiary being the citizen. social enterprises should benefit from the support of european prudential funds with access to various financial instruments. they also need the support of national, regional and local authorities both in terms of funding and promotion in order to legitimise social entrepreneurship initiatives.
although they represent some two million enterprises, with 11 million employees, social enterprises in the european union have underdeveloped funding systems. in this connection, i consider it absolutely necessary to promote additional financial means, both at national and european union level. one solution is to simplify access to the relevant structural funds under the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework, and a second solution may be to include specific axes for microfinance and social entrepreneurship under the european social fund, the european regional development fund, the horizon 2020 fund and the social change and innovation programme. only then will we be able to guarantee adequate support for social enterprises, which promote high quality jobs, combat poverty and social exclusion and invest in education and training for european citizens.
we know that the social dimension of the economic and financial crisis will be felt more and more in the period ahead. more and more people are saying that in europe's crisis management, in addition to reducing public debt and meeting budget deficit targets, too little attention has been paid to the social consequences of the crisis. in recent years, economic issues have overshadowed all other considerations, and citizens rightly feel that there are no answers to rising unemployment, problems in education systems or the phenomenon of poverty. the governments of the member states are well aware of the consequences of ignoring certain social needs. it is time to give social issues a high priority at european policy level. this requires a joint effort by the council, the commission and parliament. we cannot allow european countries to sacrifice their developed social systems on the altar of crisis management.
in order to ensure the development and functioning of the internal market of the european union, the approval systems of the member states should be replaced by a harmonised type-approval procedure at union level. in order to ensure simplification of the legal framework and a high level of operational safety, occupational safety and environmental protection, the technical requirements and environmental rules applicable to vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units should be harmonised with regard to the type-approval of both forestry and agricultural vehicles and two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. the regulation on two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles also provides for improved road safety, better consideration of new technologies and improved market surveillance. we emphasise that the regulation on the type-approval of forestry and agricultural vehicles should be without prejudice to national or union measures concerning the use of these vehicles on public roads, such as specific requirements for driving licences, maximum speed limits or measures regulating access to certain roads. improving the functioning of the internal market, in particular as regards the free movement of goods, the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide services, requires unrestricted access to vehicle repair information in a standardised format and fair competition in the market for vehicle repair and maintenance information services. to this end, it is appropriate to establish technical specifications which should be made available on the websites of manufacturers. i welcome the inclusion in the text of the regulation on two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles of the amendment tabled in the tran committee, by which we ask that importers who find that a vehicle, system, component, separate technical unit, part or equipment does not comply with the requirements of these regulations and, in particular, finds that it does not correspond to the approved type, do not place it on the market, do not allow its entry into service and do not allow the registration of the vehicle, system, component or separate technical unit, as long as its conformity has not been restored.
the number of road accidents suffered by drivers of two-wheel motor vehicles is far too high and must be reduced. the risk they face is higher than for drivers of motor vehicles. i therefore welcome the simplification of the current legal framework and in this context i believe that more importance should be given to environmental, safety and market surveillance issues. at the same time, we must look to improve the internal market and protect essential public interests. only then will we be able to achieve more efficient, safer and greener urban mobility. i think that the innovation in the vehicle sector and the economic aspects of the proposal are of major importance. in order to achieve more effective european market surveillance, clear milestones and binding criteria need to be established.
in writing. the objective of this legislative proposal is to establish harmonised rules for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles, so that the existing legislation on vehicle type-approval is simplified. i believe that the new regulation should be flexible enough to allow both the continuous development of existing machines and the introduction of new types of machines. the technical requirements for the type-approval of agricultural vehicles with regard to numerous safety and environmental elements have been harmonised at union level in order to ensure a high level of road safety, occupational safety and environmental protection. in conclusion, i would like to stress that the proposal contributes to the competitiveness of the industrial sector and to the proper functioning of the internal market.
the maastricht treaty marked a key milestone in the history of the european union by creating a single currency, backed by both an economic and a monetary pillar. however, as monetary policy took shape with the successive adoption of the european treaties, the macroeconomic dimension was reduced to simple coordination. the lack of a genuine economic policy has deprived the union of a crisis-ready response, leading to severe social costs. to address these shortcomings, the european commission proposes the creation of a banking union. i support her proposal. we need more economic integration and the tools to respond to today's economic and social challenges. but if we focus on the single banking supervisory mechanism without developing common rules for preventing bank failures and a single deposit guarantee system, we will repeat the mistakes that have undermined economic and monetary union. at the same time, it is necessary to avoid excluding non-euro area member states from the decision-making process on the single supervisory mechanism.
i voted in favour of the report because the free movement of judgments is a key objective for the strengthening of the european union. i believe that the present proposal will remove obstacles to the procedure for the recognition and enforcement of a judgment in civil and commercial matters in another member state. it is also very important to extend the provisions to nationals of third countries in the union. the introduction of choice of court agreements will also increase the efficiency of judicial procedures. the court chosen by the parties to settle a dispute will thus always have priority. this will lead to simplified procedures and lower costs. we must give citizens and businesses in the union the opportunity to resolve their disputes as quickly and efficiently as possible.
madam president, the european court of human rights has decided in numerous cases that the right of access to a court would be illusory if a contracting state’s domestic legal system allowed for a final binding judgement to remain on paper and not be enforced to the detriment of one party. the right of execution of a judgement derives from the essential principle of the rule of law. we need to unify the rules on the conflict of jurisdiction in civil and commercial matters in all eu member states. the exequatur for all civil and commercial judgements must be abolished. this will be a significant step forward in access to justice for citizens and businesses. the measure will simplify the procedure which allows a claimant who has obtained a judgement from a member state to enforce that judgement in any other member state. this would be totally to the benefit of our citizens.
madam president, i voted for the report on the marketing and use of explosives precursors. it follows and supports the commission’s approach in restricting access by the general public to 15 high-risk chemicals in concentrations that can be used for the manufacture of home-made explosives. the free movement of goods will not suffer from this measure. for instance, eight substances listed in annex i may continue to be sold in concentrated form but only if the buyer presents a licence granted by a national competent authority. the sale of other substances would remain restriction-free but be better controlled. wholesalers and retailers would be obliged to report any suspicious transactions. i also welcome the decision to support the commission’s approach involving setting up a more harmonised licensing system instead of a dual system as proposed by the council. by limiting access by the general public to these 15 substances, the regulation should reduce the frequency and impact of terrorist attacks.
madam president, i support this agreement between the european parliament and the council. as a fully functioning market economy we need to open up national markets in the economic sector of consumer credit. accomplishing this will promote competition, eliminate market distortions between operators and improve the functioning of the internal market. however, statistics show that cross-border consumer credit has not increased in years. some legal and practical barriers still remain. i am supporting this proposal to further harmonise and improve the consumption of consumer credit. it is very important in terms of strengthening the internal market in the area of consumer credit with regard to cross-border transactions. in addition, it includes a high level of consumer credit protection, which is extremely important in order to promote confidence in purchasing consumer credit. thus, economic growth and investment greatly depend on the adoption of this directive.
madam president, i support this report which sets out an initiative of the commission on combating the currently stagnant eu economy. this report calls on member states to arrange for a system of investment, education and employment targets in coordination with the eu 2020 goals. the social investment pact will contain enforcement mechanisms to ensure that each nation is meeting its goals and to stimulate economic growth. the current unemployment rate in the eu’s 27 member states is now above 10 %, up from 7.1 % in 2008. youth unemployment is far worse: it is currently over 20 %. this report calls for actions that will help alleviate some of the economic problems the union is now facing. we must ensure that the labour market improves, growth is stimulated and that an improvement in employment opportunities is sustainable.
madam president, this proposal finally adds several long expected regulations to the l-category vehicles market. currently these vehicles account for a high level of pollution. they are also dangerous compared to other vehicle types: two-wheeled power vehicles account for 16% of driving-related deaths in the european union while accounting for just 2% of total kilometres driven. i welcome this proposal because it sets out better safety standards such as multi-standard anti-lock brakes along with tougher emission standards to reduce the environmental impact. this will ensure that these vehicles become safer for their operators and friendlier for the environment, and lives will be saved.
madam president, i rise on this occasion to support the proposal of the european parliament and the council, as the manufacturers, suppliers and aftermarket stakeholders, including the trade unions, think the completion of the internal market in this area is a good idea. more specifically, harmonisation regarding the rules and regulations between all vehicles will enhance competition within the european union. the machinery directive will enable better monitoring of third-party products entering the european union. furthermore, harmonisation will foster occupational and vehicle safety as well as environmental protection. thus this proposal will limit market distortion from third-party products while improving our own industries.
i voted in favour of this report because it is essential to ensure a high level of road safety and environmental protection. this will help to improve the functioning of the internal market. simplifying the legislation in force will improve the competitiveness of the sector. harmonised standards are needed for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles. we also need a common framework for the marketing of products. he will contribute to the implementation and compliance of the new regulation. unrestricted and non-discriminatory access to vehicle repair and maintenance information is very important. i think that there has to be a balance that is right, that guarantees open access to technical information. furthermore, i believe that we should consider all the concerns related to consumer protection and fair competition.
madam president, this report proposes the further integration of the european card, internet and mobile payment market. with the ever-expanding use of non-cash payments through cards, there is an increasing need to develop a system that is both consistent and efficient. with proper eu oversight the card market will be able to reach its full potential. this would be achieved by the further integration of the market to alleviate problems associated with the transfer of payments among member states with different policies. this resolution serves to provide integration without fundamentally changing the market. cross-border standard payments and payment security are both provided for by this resolution. a further goal is to foster competition by decreasing multilateral interchange fees and surcharges. unnecessary or artificially inflated fees are technical obstacles that must be removed. in doing so, we will increase the efficiency of and competition on our market.
madam president, i rise to affirm this proposal. if banks are left unregulated in regard to shadow banking, then this lack of regulation will further destroy the economy. for instance, shadow banking accounted for eur 21 trillion in 2002 and then jumped to eur 51 trillion in 2011. in other words, shadow banking now represents 25% to 30% of all banking activity. placing shadow banking under the common regulatory framework will increase stability across the european union’s banking system. direct regulation such as establishing bank reporting requirements is a valuable tool for tackling shadow banking activity. i support this report because lack of oversight in regard to shadow banking contributed to the current financial crisis and the current banking system needs a lot of patchwork in the area of shadow banking if we are to fight the financial crisis in the eu in an efficient way.
madam president, almost 15% of internet users aged between ten and seventeen receive some form of sexual solicitation. last october a french teenager committed suicide after being the victim of blackmail on a famous social network, facebook. though it proves to be an asset for the education sector we can see that the use of the internet involves substantial risk to the privacy, dignity, safety and even the life of children and teenagers. member states must transpose and implement as soon as possible directive 2011/92/eu on combating the sexual abuse and sexual exploitation of children and child pornography. at the eu level, i welcome the creation of the new cyber security agency based at europol and i call for adequate resources for its child protection team. a top-down approach alone is not enough: children and teenagers must receive the information and training to be able to protect themselves online. eu programmes such as the safer internet programme are very positive.
i voted in favour of the report because we need to be more involved in the development and education of minors. i believe that the responsibility for avoiding some dangers lies primarily with parents, but also with internet service providers. everyone must ensure that minors are protected when they use the internet, and internet providers must find ways to block children under 18 from accessing such harmful material. i'm considering developing filters to verify the age of users. child pornography remains a major problem for minors' access to the internet and, in this regard, member states need to transpose the directive on combating sexual abuse of children as a matter of urgency. those who facilitate the production and distribution of such material must be held accountable, without exception.
madam president, we need a favourable climate for social enterprises and innovation. social enterprises employ 6% of the entire eu workforce, or over 18 million people. they provide social services in areas such as health and education that are beneficial to society. social entrepreneurs are innovators and key players in the social economy and must be protected. a stronger social enterprise economy will help accomplish the goals of the single market act as well as the europe 2020 strategy. they need support that is specifically designed for their benefit. this support may come from eu-supported banking, funds and microcredit. we must make sure that the measures suggested by this proposal will ensure just that.
madam president, i support the creation of an economic, monetary and fiscal union. we have created a common market and a single currency, yet we do not have a unique political decision. the european people’s party has consistently advocated closer economic integration as an answer to the current financial crisis. today i would like to refer to two recommendations in the thyssen report that i find particularly relevant: recommendation 2.7 on ensuring the democratic oversight of the european stability mechanism, and recommendation 4.2 on european financial backstops. as the rapporteur on the 2010 discharge of european agencies, i do have an insight into the spending of eu money. we cannot create a help fund for member states without ensuring that this money is spent in a correct, efficient and justifiable way. we are talking about substantial amounts of money with many political interests at stake. we must be clear on who is responsible for control and oversight. the european parliament has proved that it can take this responsibility seriously. we have taken a leading role in the fight against corruption and conflicts of interest. we must continue to support measures to stamp out potentially ambiguous practices.
i voted in favour of this report because economic and monetary union must lead to sustainable growth and high employment. we need more europe, but for that we also need increased parliamentary involvement. most member states are facing a difficult economic situation and that is precisely why an urgent decision is needed on the future and the direction in which the union will continue to go. we need a good climate for entrepreneurs and investment, and creating jobs and ensuring decent conditions is a key element in overcoming the current problems. europe must move towards a democratic federation of nation states, capable of formulating a coherent economic policy and a relevant foreign policy on the international stage.
in writing. − i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the efforts made during the negotiations, because through this regulation, citizens and businesses in the european union will have access to a coherent legal framework, which allows judgments given by courts competent in civil and commercial matters to be recognised and enforced promptly in a member state other than the one where the judgment was given, and in this way they will be able to fully benefit from the rights they have gained in court. i support the amendment proposed by the rapporteur, to abolish the exequatur procedure for judgments in civil and commercial matters, because in this way any judgment obtained in one member state will be automatically recognised in any other member state, and this leads to a significant improvement in the access to justice guaranteed to citizens and businesses, while also contributing to the acceleration of the judicial process. i believe that this proposal is also important for european consumers, who are among the main beneficiaries of this reform of judicial cooperation. it is essential that they are always guaranteed the right to bring an action against the other party to the contract before the courts where they are domiciled.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the proposal for a regulation on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. i consider it important to achieve the union's objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice, which should, inter alia, facilitate access to justice, in particular through the principle of mutual recognition of judicial and extrajudicial decisions in civil matters. certain differences between national rules governing jurisdiction and the recognition of judgments impede the proper functioning of the internal market. it is essential to adopt provisions to unify the rules on conflicts of jurisdiction in civil and commercial matters and to ensure the rapid and simple recognition and enforcement of judgments given in a member state. this regulation shall apply in civil and commercial matters, irrespective of the nature of the court or tribunal. it does not apply, in particular, to fiscal, customs or administrative matters, nor to the liability of the state for acts or omissions by it in the exercise of public authority.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament's first reading position on the adoption of the regulation on the marketing and use of explosives precursors. the illicit manufacture of explosives should be made more difficult by setting concentration limit values for certain explosives precursors. the free movement of those explosives precursors is ensured and subject to a safeguard mechanism below these concentration limit values. beyond those concentration limit values, access to those explosives precursors by the general public should be restricted. the regulation on the classification, labelling and packaging of substances and mixtures provides that substances and mixtures classified as dangerous must be correctly labelled before being placed on the market. economic operators, including retailers, also either classify and label these substances or rely on the classification established by an upstream actor in the supply chain. it is therefore appropriate to provide in this regulation that all economic operators, including retailers, who make available to the general public substances restricted under this regulation ensure that the packaging indicates that the acquisition, possession or use of the substance or mixture by the general public is subject to a restriction.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that, in the context of accession to the european union, croatian citizens will have to benefit from derogations in order to be able to work in the union institutions. this is all the more important as translators, interpreters, editors and proofreaders of croatian origin will have to be employed in order not to affect the ability of the institutions to work in croatian, which will become an official language of the union. since a similar procedure was adopted for the accessions of the last 12 members of the union, i believe that the same can be done for the situation in croatia. it is important that there is a fair distribution of nationality within the european institutions. the employment of croatian nationals must therefore start immediately after the effective date of accession to the european union.
in writing. − the accession of croatia next year is an important stage in a long process, which is a testimony to the strength and unity of the european union. it shows that in an unprecedented period of crisis, the eu did not turn inwards, but was able to continue the work started and not listen to those who felt that the enlargement process was moving too fast. but we must not sit back complacently, because without the integration of the western balkans there will never be any lasting stability in the post-yugoslav states, and without these countries there will never be a whole europe. enlargement must continue, and the western balkans must be given a clear and unambiguous perspective in the accession process. we need to narrow our expectations and alongside them make continuous progress in converging our economies, our legal systems, our societies and our policies. croatia's example shows that work pays off.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation introducing, on the occasion of croatia's accession, special and temporary measures concerning the recruitment of officials and temporary staff of the european union. this regulation provides, in the context of the accession of croatia, for a derogation from the general rules on the recruitment of officials and other servants of the european union, according to which recruitment must be open to all citizens of the european union, irrespective of nationality. the requirements have been temporarily adapted in the event of accession to the union to allow 'positive discrimination' in favour of acceding countries, thus allowing them to be adequately represented among officials and other servants of the european union. i welcome the commission's proposal to follow the same procedure as for the accession of 12 new countries in 2004 and 2007 and for croatian citizens. the proposal for a regulation allows certain recruitment competitions to be reserved for croatian nationals until 2018. i welcome the organisation of competitions for recruitment of croatian language linguists (translators, interpreters, editors, proofreaders and press attachés), as well as for general administrators and assistants.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that a higher level of safety is needed in offshore oil and gas operations. the recent accident in the gulf of mexico further underscores this need. i think that a sustainable governance policy for offshore activities is more than welcome. in this context, i support the commission's proposal and believe that the union should promote international cooperation to improve safety at sea. i also want to stress the importance of maintaining an optimal ecological situation and avoiding tragic consequences in the future. the ratification of the protocol would be an important step forward in this respect and would help to ensure an optimal level of cooperation.
in writing. − i consider that the accession of the european union to the protocol on offshore activities is necessary to protect the marine and coastal environment of the mediterranean and to promote international cooperation towards the sustainable governance of offshore activities. the scale and severity of the deepwater horizon accident in the gulf of mexico in 2010, as well as other dramatic accidents, require a high level of safety for oil and gas exploration and production. the mediterranean sea is increasingly the site of offshore exploration and exploitation activities and is particularly vulnerable because of its semi-enclosed configuration and significant seismic activity. the aim of the 'offshore protocol' is to increase the safety of offshore exploration and exploitation activities and to protect the marine environment in the mediterranean sea. it lays down the conditions to be met before such activities can be permitted, the conditions for the removal of abandoned or decommissioned installations, the use and disposal of harmful substances, and measures relating to safety, emergency planning and monitoring.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the eu's accession to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from the exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and the seabed. the convention for the protection of the marine environment and the coastal region of the mediterranean, also known as the 'barcelona convention', was originally signed in barcelona in 1976 and amended in 1995. one of the barcelona convention protocols concerns the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution resulting from exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf, the seabed and the seabed. the european union has neither signed nor ratified the protocol on offshore activities. it is therefore necessary for the union to conclude this protocol. one of the objectives of the european union's environmental policy is to promote measures to solve regional environmental problems at international level. with regard to the protocol on offshore activities, it is particularly important to take into account the high probability of transboundary environmental effects in the event of an accident in a semi-enclosed sea such as the mediterranean sea. it is therefore necessary for the european union to take all necessary measures to support the safety of offshore exploration and exploitation activities and the protection of the marine environment in the mediterranean sea.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because the fisheries partnership agreement with greenland has proved to be a success and i believe that it should be further supported and promoted by a new protocol. it is a key element of eu-greenland cooperation and nordic fisheries cooperation, which has brought a number of benefits to both sides. i consider the financial contribution provided for by the new protocol for the period 2013-2015 to be appropriate and believe that it will ensure a responsible and sustainable sectoral fisheries policy for greenland. i also welcome the addition to the new protocol of a suspension clause in the event of violations of fundamental human rights or democratic principles. i believe that this is an indispensable part of the effective functioning of the agreement in question.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the fisheries partnership agreement between the european community, of the one part, and the government of denmark and the home rule government of greenland, of the other part. the fisheries partnership agreement with greenland was established after greenland's withdrawal from the ec in 1985, on the basis that the community could maintain its traditional fishing rights by paying an annual financial compensation in return. the fisheries partnership agreement between the eu and the former home rule government of greenland was adopted on 28 june 2007 together with the current protocol setting out the annual fishing opportunities and financial contributions until 31 december 2012. greenland's economy is highly dependent on fishing and the export of fishery products to the eu. in 2012, exports to eu markets amounted to eur 331 million (92,7% of total exports), while the value of imports from the eu was almost twice as high (eur 641 million). the fisheries sector creates 6 500 jobs, but only 2 000 full-time jobs are directly provided by the fisheries sector. i welcome the renewal of the protocol for a period of three years from 1 january 2013.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it was necessary to simplify the procedures for citizens who are not resident in the state in which they stand for election to the european parliament. it is important that the checks on eligibility are carried out by the member states and become an automatic procedure for each candidate in elections. this will encourage the submission of candidatures and give voters the opportunity to choose from a wide range of candidates. last but not least, simplification of procedures can be a step towards a uniform regulation of the right to vote in elections to the european parliament. in the future, greater harmonisation will be required between the way in which elections to parliament are conducted.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because it clarifies and facilitates the procedure for european citizens residing in a member state other than the one of which they are nationals to stand as candidates in european parliament elections. this is paramount in the current eu context, where migration from one member state to another is a highly common practice. thus, those in this situation need a clear and easy process to ensure that they are granted one of the fundamental rights of a democratic entity - that of being able to stand for election. i also welcome the fact that both the council and the european parliament will work to make the directive operational for the 2014 elections.
in writing. - i voted for the amendment of directive 93/109/ec on the right to elect and be elected to the european parliament for citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals. the right of every citizen of the union to elect and be elected to the european parliament in his or her member state of residence is recognised under article 20 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and in the charter of fundamental rights of the eu. the member state of residence shall verify that union citizens who have expressed their wish to exercise their right to stand for election have not been deprived of that right in their member state of origin on the basis of an individual judgment or an administrative decision, provided that the latter can be subject to appeal. in order to facilitate communication between national authorities, member states should designate a contact point responsible for the notification of information on applications. the directive requires that, when the application is submitted, the union citizen submit a certificate from the competent administrative authorities of the home member state certifying that he has not been deprived of his right to stand for election in that member state or that the authorities are not aware of such a deprivation of rights.
in writing. − one of the fundamental principles of the single market is precisely the harmonisation of legislative conditions in order to increase the efficiency of economic exchanges. the contouring of this legislative framework on consumer credit removes regulatory differences on the one hand, and in practice offers consumers a much wider range of services and offers. on the other hand, through such initiatives, the common market becomes a concrete reality, with real coverage, which gives substance to the mechanisms and institutions of the european union. it is equally important, however, that the process of extending trade or the coverage of credit services be carried out with consumer protection as a permanent priority. i support the adoption of the report and believe that it is imperative that member states take decisive action to better inform consumers about the products and services to which they have access.
in writing. − the consumer credit directive has undoubtedly brought an extra layer of consumer protection, which is welcome. in general, i think we can be satisfied with the implementation process and i do not think that a revision of the directive is necessary at this point. the priority must be, as this report suggests, to ensure proper implementation in the member states. the sweep control procedure undertaken by the commission has been particularly useful in identifying problems in implementation. some sustained efforts must be made to ensure that the provisions of the directive on information on offers in advertising are not misrepresented. consumers also need to be better informed about the risks of taking out a loan in a foreign currency due to exchange rate fluctuations. last but not least, i believe it is important to provide consumers with more information about the possibility of taking out a loan in another member state. this is likely to increase crossborder lending and foster the creation of an internal credit market, which is currently in deficit, even if there are other reasons for this, such as linguistic ones.
in writing. − i also welcome the commission's initiative to carry out a study on the crossborder impact and effects of crossborder cooperation on the internal market and consumer protection. consumers in cross-border areas need to be better informed about the conditions under which they can obtain consumer credit in another member state for the purchase of durable goods, cars or other purposes, and about their rights when concluding such a contract, in particular where the credit is in a currency other than that of the beneficiary's state of residence.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the consumer credit directive 2008/48/ec. the consumer credit directive has two objectives: to improve consumer protection and to strengthen the crossborder consumer credit market. the report on consumer credit calls for a better level of consumer protection. one of the objectives of the directive is to ensure the availability of information, thereby promoting the functioning of the internal market and the granting of loans. we consider it necessary to assess whether the number of cross-border loan agreements is increasing. i stress the importance of communicating to consumers that, where they exercise their right to withdraw from a contract where the supplier or service provider directly receives the corresponding amount of payment from the credit provider by an ancillary contract, consumers do not bear any fees, commissions or other costs relating to the financial service provided. we call on the commission to present to the european parliament and the council an evaluation report on the implementation of the directive, as well as a full impact assessment of its impact on consumer protection, taking into account the consequences of the financial crisis and the new eu legal framework for financial services.
in writing. − the economic and financial crisis has directly affected the living standards and expectations of european citizens. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty and that it is compatible with the internal market within the meaning of article 107 (3) (c) of the treaty. issues such as retraining, adapting the labour market to new economic realities, reforming national pension systems, and combating poverty and social exclusion call for renewed efforts. i believe that the current difficult context calls for rationalisation and prioritisation of expenditure. as long as the european union's 2020 targets remain a priority, the achievement of education, labour market and social inclusion objectives can be achieved within a much more efficient funding framework. i support the introduction of much more stringent expenditure control measures, which is an additional guarantee of efficiency that we need at this time.
in writing. − in the context of the economic crisis, the negative effects of member states' austerity measures on employment and competitiveness in europe must be considered. it is important to take measures that facilitate growth and employment, such as well-targeted social investment, which prepares citizens to adapt to changing economic conditions and labour market demands. alongside ensuring the sustainability of public finances, member states should focus equally on helping the unemployed, especially those who have been unemployed for a long time, to re-enter the labour market, on creating sustainable and quality jobs for both women and men and on improving labour productivity. at the same time, investment in education and training needs to be supported and the skills of graduates and workers need to be matched to labour market demands. the balance between flexibility and security at work and reconciliation of family and professional life must be improved. member states must take the necessary measures to reform the pension system and to create good working conditions until old age, in order to prevent poverty and social exclusion.
in writing. − i also support the rapporteur's proposal for the member states of the union to sign a 'social investment pact' with the aim of developing a mechanism adapted to the current economic and financial crisis, which would allow for better implementation of the social, employment and education objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. i also welcome the proposal to develop a standard set of indicators for social investment, which will enable progress in social investment to be monitored at member state level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on social investment pact as i believe that is a good response to the crisis. the idea set forth in this agreement shall be an exit strategy from the economic and social crisis. a crisis that is still a real threat to the stability of many european union countries which are facing enormous problems, especially in terms of unemployment. even more worrying are the rate of youth unemployment and the chronic lack of jobs among people with low but also high qualifications. the crisis requires not only to remodel social policies of the member states but also to actively transform the welfare state, in a state that invests in people, in a state that provides citizens with the tools and incentives, in a state gives them a chance to build a real career and a real future.
in writing. − it is my opinion that we should not neglect the negative effects that these austerity measures could have on employment and competitiveness in europe. we should complete them with new measures that will target social investments. i agree that social problems, employment and education are not sufficiently addressed by the majority of member states. the ‘social investment pact’ sets investment targets and reinforces necessary control mechanisms with regard to social and employment policies. i votes in favour of this report.
in writing. − one of our main objectives, as representatives of the citizens of the european union, is to restore sustainable economic growth in europe. it is our duty to help society to adapt to the constant and difficult economic changes and labour market demands, and we need to provide an effective response, as manifested by well-targeted social investment. with the unemployment rate continuing to rise, we must focus on reintegrating the unemployed into the labour market and creating new jobs that are sustainable and, most importantly, accessible to a wide variety of disadvantaged groups. i believe that more attention needs to be paid to the difficult situations which arise in the case of young unemployed people. the european commission should, in my view, support apprenticeship systems and the growth of apprenticeship numbers, taking as a reference the dual system of education and vocational training in countries such as germany or austria, which is an essential component of the transition of young people from studies to the labour market. i am also pleased that most of my proposals are reflected in my colleague danuta jazłowiecka's report, which is a comprehensive report on this sensitive subject.
in writing. - i voted for the social investment pact. in 2011, the poverty rate for 16-24 year olds in europe averaged 21.6%, and young people are more likely to be in precarious, fixed-term or part-time jobs, while also being more likely to be unemployed. social investment should be an important part of the economic and employment policies and crisis responses of the eu and the member states in order to achieve the social, employment and education objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. all social and health and education benefits, and services provided in these areas by private sector providers, can be considered social investments. i would remind you that these are defined in the treaties as part of national competence. facilitating and focusing on social entrepreneurship and access to microfinance for vulnerable groups and those furthest from the labour market are key elements in the context of social investment, as they allow for the creation of new and sustainable jobs, often resulting in permanent changes in the business cycle.
in writing. − the success of the eu's common agricultural policy requires much more action in terms of product promotion and consumer information. european agriculture has the greatest potential to become one of the key economic drivers of development. it is equally important to strengthen this dimension of promotion and information to promote european products in traditional and emerging markets. the current framework for the promotion of agricultural products and information on production processes undoubtedly needs improvement. a functional and effective compromise must be found between the need to increase the productivity and competitiveness of the european economy and the imperative of better promoting european agricultural products and better informing european consumers. institutional elements such as the strictness of health regulations, the rules on respect for the environmental impact and the high degree of innovation are all assets that should be used to support european farmers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that promoting specific products of the european union is particularly important, especially in the context of the economic crisis. consumers are now looking for the most diverse and authentic products possible, so i think they should be as well informed as possible about the options available to them. the best way to do this is to organise global campaigns to inform consumers in the eu and in external markets about production quality standards and certification schemes. the commission will have a very important role in coordinating these actions both in the internal market and outside the union, and the technical support it will provide is essential.
in writing. − i believe that the time has come to define more clearly a promotion policy for agricultural products and a strategy for promoting european tastes that stimulate and reward both the production of specific products included in quality programmes and farming practices that produce less co2 emissions, so as to protect biodiversity and maintain the quality of soils and water supplies.
in writing. − the european union has one of the world's most diverse agro-food heritages, and this must be exploited and promoted within and outside the european union. in this context, european quality schemes (pdo, pgi, gts and organic farming) should be promoted not only among consumers but also among producers, emphasising the characteristics that differentiate them from other products and the advantages of their production, procurement and consumption. in addition, in order to give a european dimension, all promotional actions directly financed by the european commission relating to products or groups of products should contain common slogans and values, established by the commission. it is essential to convey a clear and easily identifiable message to the consumer.
in writing. - i voted for the bové report. i believe that the flavours of european products are unique and should be promoted both inside and outside the union. the european union must try to export a sustainable agricultural model and its authentic traditional products. it is also important to promote local markets and short supply chains. at the same time, individual projects should be financed under rural development policy, which can be adapted to local conditions, but priority should be given to traditional food producers.
in writing. − i very much welcome my colleague's report on the promotion measures for agricultural products, in particular the future direction of the promotion policy, which, as it states, would place particular emphasis on the promotion of traditional farming practices that preserve the quality of the land and water supply and are low in carbon dioxide emissions. i would like to draw your attention to the fact that one of the romanian counties, hargita county, inhabited by the overwhelming majority of the hungarian national minority, has already introduced a similar promotion mechanism. the 'szelzel produkt' trademark and the associated promotion activity may be granted to characteristic agricultural products made from local raw materials produced in szeklerland, which are environmentally friendly and healthy. i believe that the new promotion policy should explore the possibility of supporting similar local initiatives, as this could initiate and strengthen processes that are beneficial to both producers and consumers.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the promotion and information actions for agricultural products: a strategy to promote the tastes of europe, because i believe that the eu's policy of promoting agricultural products can contribute to the long-term competitiveness and sustainability of the agricultural and food sector. we call on the commission to develop short supply chains in local and regional markets, thus creating new opportunities for farmers and other producers in rural areas and for farmers' and/or farmers' associations and other operators in rural areas, and to develop a wide range of instruments to promote rural development. the commission should develop guidelines to help farmers to make more and better investments in the quality and specific value of their products. we call on the commission to support the efforts of european producers to acquire the necessary capacity to meet consumer requirements in terms of food quality and hygiene, the origin of fresh products and the recommended period of consumption.
in writing. − the european union has taken important steps to protect copyright. one example is the suite directive, which created the right of the author to participate in the resale procedure of the work. in this way, the fair treatment of authors as provided for by the berne convention was ensured. the application of the directive in all member states as from 1 january 2012 will bring even greater benefits. i believe that the implementation of the suite right provisions is essential to have a single copyright market. the potential of the union market for artistic, visual and graphic works is very high for both authors and consumers. therefore, the protection and respect of copyright holders must remain a crucial objective of the union in stimulating innovation and creation.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the implementation of the right of suite. artistic creation contributes to the continuous development of the eu's cultural life and heritage. in 2011, the european art market experienced a sharp increase. the united kingdom has a market share of 19,4% of the world market, with a 24% increase in sales volume; france has a market share of 4.5%, with a turnover growth of 9%, and germany, with a market share of 1.8% (3), has seen sales increase by 23%. many of the provisions of the directive ensure a balanced application of the suite right, taking into account the interests of all interested parties, in particular the gradual reduction of the applicable rates, the capping of the right at eur 12 500, the exclusion of small sales and the granting of exemptions in the case of resales to the first purchaser. i would point out, however, that the directive imposes an administrative burden on traders. calls on the commission to carry out an assessment of the impact of the functioning of the art market in general, including the administrative difficulties faced by smaller and specialist auction houses and art dealers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe it is important that parliament's rules of procedure, especially as regards interinstitutional negotiations, be adapted to the current context. the revision of article 70 of the rules of procedure with a view to increasing the effectiveness, transparency and inclusiveness of the procedures by including some of the key elements of the code of conduct for negotiations under the ordinary legislative procedure in the mandatory part of the rules of procedure is welcomed. in cases of urgency, it is necessary that a commission with competence in the matter be able to conduct negotiations and update the mandate on the basis of developments. a too strict definition in the regulation of the form of such a mandate would be counterproductive in terms of flexibility and efficiency.
in writing. - i voted in favour of parliament's decision amending rule 70 of parliament's rules of procedure on interinstitutional negotiations in the context of legislative procedures. rule 70 of the rules of procedure is useful when the three institutions - parliament, the commission and the council - are negotiating legislative acts of interest to the eu. negotiations with the other institutions with a view to reaching an agreement in the course of a legislative procedure shall be conducted taking into account the code of conduct established by the conference of presidents. negotiations shall be opened only after the committee responsible for each legislative procedure concerned has, on a case-by-case basis and by a majority of its component members, adopted a decision to open negotiations. that decision shall determine the mandate and composition of the negotiating team. the mandate shall consist of a report adopted in committee and tabled for further consideration by parliament. the negotiating team shall be headed by the rapporteur and chaired by the chair of the committee responsible or by a vice-chair designated by the chair. the team shall include at least the alternate rapporteurs from each political group. any decision by a committee to open negotiations before adoption of a report in committee shall be translated into all the official languages, distributed to all members of parliament and forwarded to the conference of presidents.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because i believe that it is necessary to continue to maintain a system whereby decisions and debates in the european parliament are accessible to citizens of the union, irrespective of their nationality and language. the provision of the shorthand in their original language will result in greater budgetary and resource savings and at the same time allow the principle of multilingualism to be maintained. this is particularly important to preserve the cultural and linguistic identity of each citizen, but also to avoid creating certain hierarchies in relation to the official languages of the union. the amendments will also not affect the simultaneous translation system, which will continue to be provided in all official languages of the union.
in writing. - i voted to amend rule 181 of parliament's rules of procedure on the transcripts of debates and rule 182 on the audio-visual recording of debates. in the context of the current economic and financial crisis, parliament wanted to implement a package of cost-cutting measures for the 2012 budget. the minutes of meetings will therefore be compiled exclusively in the form of a multilingual document in which all the speeches appear only in their original language, with no automatic translation being provided. the provision of the stenograms exclusively in their original language will result in budgetary savings and, at the same time, allow the principle of multilingualism to be maintained. oral contributions are in their original language and speakers may make corrections to the text of their oral contributions within five working days. parliament's debates are also broadcast in real time on its website in the languages in which they are held, together with the multilingual soundtrack of all active interpretation booths. immediately after each sitting, an indexed audio-visual recording of the debates in the languages in which they were held, together with the multilingual audio-tape of all active interpreting booths, shall be made available to the public on parliament's website for the duration of the current and the next parliamentary term, after which it shall be kept in parliament's archives.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. the regulation aims to establish harmonised rules for the type-approval of l-category vehicles with a view to ensuring the functioning of the internal market. l-category vehicles are two, three or four-wheel vehicles (motorcycles, tricycles and quadricycles). the regulation aims to simplify the existing legal framework, reduce emissions from l-category vehicles, increase the overall level of safety and strengthen the rules on market surveillance. for reasons of clarity, predictability, rationalisation and simplification, and in order to reduce the burden on vehicle manufacturers, this regulation should contain a limited number of implementation steps for the introduction of new emission levels and safety requirements. sufficient time should be allowed for the industry to adapt to the new provisions laid down in this regulation. timely definition of the requirements is essential to ensure sufficient time for manufacturers to develop, test and implement technical solutions for series-produced vehicles and for manufacturers and approval authorities in the member states to put in place the necessary administrative systems.
in writing. − i welcome the objective of this legislative proposal to establish harmonised rules for the manufacture of agricultural and forestry vehicles, so that the existing legislation on vehicle type-approval is simplified.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the type-approval of agricultural and forestry vehicles. it lays down the requirements for the market surveillance of vehicles, systems, components and separate technical units approved under this regulation. it also lays down requirements for the market surveillance of parts and equipment intended for such vehicles. the union is a contracting party to the agreement of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) concerning the adoption of uniform technical specifications for wheeled vehicles, equipment and components which can be fitted to and/or be used on wheeled vehicles and the conditions for reciprocal recognition of approvals granted on the basis of these specifications. in order to simplify the type-approval legislation, it is appropriate to repeal all individual directives without reducing the level of protection. the requirements laid down in those directives should be taken over in this regulation or in the delegated acts adopted pursuant to this regulation and, where appropriate, replaced by references to the relevant unece regulations. in order to reduce the administrative burden of the type-approval process, vehicle manufacturers should be allowed to apply for type-approval in accordance with this regulation.
in writing. − the development of an integrated european payments market is necessary to complete the european single market and to avoid excessive and unnecessary taxation of consumers. it should ensure greater transparency, competition and security by aiming to provide similar services both cross-border and nationally. in this context, i voted in favour of the report on card, internet and mobile payments.
in writing. − in a europe without borders and in full swing of the information technology, there is a growing need to ensure the security of card and online payments and, above all, the protection of personal data and transparency for consumers. it is desirable to ensure that all european citizens can make card payments, regardless of the country of origin of the card, through the interoperability of banking systems, so that the integrated european payments market can truly function.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on card internet and mobile payments. i deeply believe that in crisis periods such as the one we are facing right now, it is very important to create a framework of security and transparency of payments. a trustworthy and transparent european framework for electronic payments is essential for the launch of a digital single market. this report underlines the need for clear and transparent rules on consumer-protection policies at the european level. in order to develop the potential of electronic payments, it is essential to ensure consumer confidence, which requires a high level of security to safeguard against the risk of fraud and in order to protect consumers’ sensitive data. i think that consumer privacy should be protected in accordance to eu and national legislation, and that each party in the payment chain should only have access to data relevant to its processing and the rest would be bypassed encrypted.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution 'towards an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments'. the proportion and variety of internet and mobile payments is constantly growing in europe and worldwide, and i believe it is important to remove the obstacles to a fully integrated european digital single market that is competitive, innovative, safe, transparent and consumer-friendly in these forms of payments. i believe that common technical standards based on open access would improve the competitiveness of the european economy and the functioning of the internal market, promote interoperability and also bring security benefits in the form of common security standards, which would benefit consumers and traders alike. i believe that the minimum security requirements for internet, card and mobile payments should be the same in all member states and that there should be a common regulatory body to set these requirements. i would stress that standardised security solutions would simplify customer information and thus be the way for customers to adapt to security systems, which would reduce costs for payment service providers (psps).
in writing. − i believe that there is a need for stricter monitoring of entities that perform banking-like functions but are outside the regulatory system. the shadow banking system is considered to be one of the triggers of the global financial crisis. it is closely linked to the regular banking system, which raises many concerns about systemic risks. i voted in favour of the report on shadow banking because i believe that no actor or financial instrument should be left out of the rules. we need more stable, more efficient financial markets geared towards stimulating the real economy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on shadow banking (sbp) because the shadow banking sector plays an important role in the financial system. the parallel banking system, as defined by the financial stability board (fsb), refers to the credit intermediation system involving entities and activities outside the traditional banking system. regulated entities within the traditional banking system participate significantly in the activities defined as part of the shadow banking system and are interconnected in many ways with shadow banking entities. parallel banking creates new sources of funding and offers investors alternatives to bank deposits, but it can also entail potential risks to long-term financial stability. we voted to increase the reliability of bank balance sheets and we ask the commission to come up with a legislative proposal to separate the personal and investment activities of banks. we call on the commission to carry out, in future, comprehensive impact studies on the effects of each legislative proposal on the financing of the real economy.
in writing. − children are the most exposed group to risks when surfing the internet. their thirst for knowledge can often turn them into victims of psychological manipulation, child pornography, invasion of privacy, online gambling, commercial fraud, and more. i believe that minors need to be protected when they are in cyberspace by promoting digital education and training at european level for children, parents, educators, school teachers and social workers, so that they understand the digital world and identify the dangers to which this age group is exposed when using the internet. i believe it is important to ensure the continuity of the 'safer internet' programme, which provides funding for programmes aimed at increasing the level of protection of minors in cyberspace, in an increasingly effective and collaborative way at european level. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − given that minors spend most of their time in front of the television and the internet, exposed to numerous acts of violence, a framework directive is needed to end the fragmentation of legal provisions and guidance on the protection of minors in the digital world, to have a harmonised approach in the member states and to encourage greater coordination between them and the eu. it is necessary to ensure the continuity of the safer internet programme and to ensure that the responsibility for the protection of minors against cybercrime falls to the police in an increasingly effective and collaborative manner at european level. the measures to combat online crimes against minors successfully adopted by certain member states, which facilitate the exchange of information with internet and e-mail service providers, should be encouraged. it is important that member states commit themselves to protecting minors in the digital world, to enable european citizens to benefit from the cultural and economic dimension of all types of digital media and to contribute to the achievement of the lisbon objectives, fostering the development of a knowledge-based economy and stimulating competition.
in writing. − i believe that parents have a very important role to play in protecting their children from the dangers of the digital world, but at the same time i believe that the main priorities at european level should be to develop policies to protect children from aggressive or misleading advertising on television and online.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on protecting children in the digital world. internet is becoming increasingly present in the lives of children and it gives children and young people an incredible opportunity to make their voices heard. on the other hand it exposes them to high risks and requires action on at least three fronts: access and education, protection and digital citizenship. moreover i believe that member states should make efforts to promote systematic education and training for children, parents, educators, schoolteachers and social workers, thus allowing them to understand the digital world and identify those risks which could harm the physical or mental integrity of children. i believe that raising awareness on the rights of children in the digital world would greatly impact the wellbeing of the next generation and protect them from the risks posed by the internet.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the protection of children in the digital world, as online environments and social networks pose important risks to the privacy and dignity of children, who are among the most vulnerable users. i support the efforts of the member states to promote systematic training of children, parents, educators, school teachers and social workers to enable them to understand the digital world and identify the associated dangers. it considers it important that minors and their parents acquire digital and media knowledge and skills. digital skills and safe internet use by minors should be a priority in the social, educational and youth policies of the member states and the union and a key component of the europe 2020 strategy. i support continuing digital training for educators and teachers. i support the safer internet program. i ask that it continue and be adequately funded to carry out all its activities and maintain its specific character. i believe that the 'media education' programme is the key tool to enable minors to make critical use of the media and opportunities offered by the digital world. we invite member states to include this tool in school curricula.
in writing. − social initiatives are one of the ways in which european economies and societies can respond to the current challenges posed by the increasing globalisation. whether we are talking about self-help organizations, private enterprises or cooperatives, it is clear that the social entrepreneurship system can compensate for the work of the private or state environment at multiple levels. social initiatives create jobs that are not in danger of relocation, make a significant contribution to promoting social inclusion and are also one of the significant drivers of innovation at a time when european economies need to respond to global challenges through real increases in competitiveness. i believe that support for these initiatives at european or national level is imperative for the future of the european union. however, it must take into account both the assessment against a number of performance criteria and the reinvestment of the profit. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − social economy actors and enterprises are important drivers of economic growth and social innovation, as they offer the opportunity to create sustainable jobs and encourage the labour market integration of vulnerable groups. social economy enterprises can contribute to the provision of social services, thus supporting the achievement of common eu objectives. it is important to develop a strategy and measures to promote entrepreneurship and innovative social enterprises, in particular for young people and disadvantaged people, in order to ensure wider and easier access to union programmes and funds for both women and men entrepreneurs. the commission should provide the necessary support to ensure the continuity of the erasmus for young entrepreneurs programme and to increase its attractiveness and visibility in the social economy sector. member states should support innovative social enterprises, in particular those that promote high quality jobs, combat poverty and social exclusion and invest in education, vocational training and lifelong learning. support enterprises in the social economy sector with sufficient financial means at local, regional, national and european union level through the relevant funds of the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − i believe that the development of a public european database of certificates applicable to social enterprises in europe will be beneficial for their development and will also allow the specific nature of this type of organisation to be recognised within the union.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the report on social business initiative. the objective of the report is to achieve social impact rather than generating profit for owners and shareholders which operates in the market through the production of goods and services in an entrepreneurial and innovative way and which is managed by social entrepreneurs in an accountable and transparent way, in particular by involving workers, customers and stakeholders affected by its business activity. with this initiative will be possible to facilitate social and work integration, improving the quality of social and healthcare contributing to inclusive growth. moreover, it is very important to give the possibility to the youth to have an environment and the opportunity to start their one social business. we have to raise awareness for all europeans on the regional, social, structural and cohesion funds that europe provides to his citizens. the acquisition of this fund should be easier and for everyone. eu structural funds programs and exercises a significant role in facilitating access to finance for enterprises in the social economy. the access to european funds should be simplified, allowing the establishment of an appropriate level of flexibility to the member states.
in writing. − it is important to ensure better and easier access for entrepreneurs to eu and member states' programmes and funding. the report underlines the importance of a strategy and of measures promoting social entrepreneurship and innovative social enterprises, especially with regard to young and disadvantaged people. moreover, it is well known that social enterprises provide social services and they contribute to a sustainable employment, social innovation and the inclusion of vulnerable groups. therefore, i think there are sufficient arguments for financial and political support for social enterprises, especially in times of crisis. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on the social entrepreneurship initiative building an ecosystem for the promotion of social enterprises in the economy and social innovation. the social economy is part of the ecosocial market economy and the european single market. we call on the commission and the member states to ensure that social economy enterprises are not disadvantaged by other types of enterprises that choose to pursue only profitable areas of the social economy. we would point out that these areas are mostly urban, so that other areas, mostly rural or peripheral, where the costs of logistics are higher, are forced to settle for a lower range of services in terms of quantity and quality. we emphasise that users should be able to choose between several service providers. we stress that different financial instruments, such as the european social entrepreneurship fund, european venture capital funds and european 'prudential investor' funds, are needed to improve access to financial markets for social economy enterprises. we stress the importance of a strategy and measures to promote entrepreneurship and innovative social enterprises, especially for young people and disadvantaged people.
in writing. − under the treaties, when defining and implementing the union's policies and activities, account must be taken of the promotion of a high level of employment and the guarantee of adequate social protection. specific rules on the mandatory surveillance of budgetary discipline in the euro area can and should complement fiscal and macroeconomic standards with social and employment standards. the commission should establish a social pact for europe, promoting: youth employment, including initiatives such as the european youth guarantee; adequate and quality funding of public services; wages that ensure a decent living; equal pay and equal rights for work of equal value for all; access to social and affordable housing; a minimum level of social protection guaranteeing universal access to basic health services, regardless of income. the implementation of a social protocol protecting fundamental social and labour rights, european standards for managing restructuring in a socially responsible manner, must also be supported. a new strategy is also needed in the area of health and safety, including for stress-related conditions.
in writing. − i believe that in the process of implementing the provisions of economic and monetary union, it is necessary for the union to avoid applying policies which would lead to the creation of two different europe. this is necessary to avoid damaging the eu's credibility and the trust of european citizens in national and european public institutions, as europeans continue to see the union as the most effective actor in tackling the economic crisis.
in writing. − we have reached the critical point where the sustainable development of the european union project can only be achieved through the effective use of simplified and transparent budgetary mechanisms, which restore economic and financial balance and citizens' confidence. in this respect, the full financing of the european union budget from its own resources is an absolute necessity, but it must be regulated in detail as a matter of urgency, without which the objective of achieving economic and monetary union cannot be achieved. to this end, we must concentrate our efforts as soon as possible on the following: 1. raising the ceiling on existing traditional own resources; 2. introducing new own resources, such as the financial transaction tax and the common consolidated corporate tax base, but also finding other innovative methods to stimulate the financial sector; 3. the considerable reduction of resources based on contributions from national budgets; and 4. the elimination of deduction and correction mechanisms in favour of some member states, which are totally unfair and incomprehensible to citizens.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution containing recommendations to the commission on the report of the presidents of the european council, the european commission, the european central bank and the eurogroup entitled 'towards a genuine economic and monetary union - emu'. the union is at a tipping point and job creation, quality jobs and decent working conditions are key to overcoming the current crisis. the important role of the euro, both within the euro area and globally, as the second international reserve currency, calls for a strong european response and coordinated european action to restore stability and ensure growth. a genuine economic and monetary union requires a strengthened budgetary capacity, based on specific own resources and supporting growth and cohesion. we call on the commission to submit to parliament as soon as possible and after consulting all interested parties, with the european parliament as co-legislator, proposals for acts to follow up the detailed recommendations contained in the annex to this resolution and concerning the integrated financial framework, the integrated fiscal framework, the integrated economic policy framework and the strengthening of democratic accountability and legitimacy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the acp-eu parliamentary assembly has, through the quality of its work in 2011, succeeded in establishing itself as an indispensable participant in north-south cooperation. the assembly has a major role in monitoring the negotiations on the conclusion of economic partnership agreements. the two working sessions of the acp-eu parliamentary assembly in 2011 contributed to the strengthening of relations between the union and the african, caribbean and pacific states. as the european union remains the main donor of development assistance to many countries in africa, the caribbean and the pacific, maintaining close relations is important for both sides. by intensifying contacts in the coming years, i believe that the union's external profile could be strengthened.
in writing. − as an alternate member of the delegation to the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly, i voted in favour of this report, as the jpa is an essential instrument of dialogue and cooperation between the eu and the acp countries. through its political character and by enhancing the involvement of its members and the quality of its debates, the acp-eu partnership makes a decisive contribution to the acp-eu partnership. however, greater attention should be paid to the results of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and consistency between its resolutions and those of the ep should be ensured. by voting in favour, i also express my satisfaction at the reduction in the time allotted to meetings from four to three days, thus enabling considerable savings to be made in the costs involved.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly. i stress the need to pay greater attention to the results of the work of the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly and to ensure consistency between its resolutions and those of the ep. i also stress the key role of acp national parliaments, as well as local authorities and non-state actors, in the development and monitoring of national and regional strategy papers and in the implementation of the european development fund (edf). we call on the commission and the acp governments to guarantee their involvement in this process. i call on the eu and the acp countries to encourage citizens, especially women, to participate in development issues, as involving society is essential. i recognise the problem- and conflict-solving competencies of women and urge the commission and the app to include more women in the working groups and working groups, highlighting the valuable contribution of the women's forum in this regard. i reiterate the importance of enhanced, authentic and more comprehensive political dialogue on human rights, including non-discrimination on the grounds of gender, racial or ethnic origin, religion or belief, disability, age or sexual orientation.
in writing. the european union's dependence on energy imports, in particular oil and, more recently, natural gas, is a major concern in the energy policy field, for reasons of security of energy supply. the decline in primary natural gas production has led to an increase in the eu's dependence on primary energy imports, with over 60% of the gas the union consumes today being imported. a study on geological resources published in may 2012 shows that natural gas could account for 25% of the world's energy resources. shale gas is a resource that no eu country can afford to neglect. according to the us government's energy information agency, european shale gas reserves amount to 18 000 billion cubic metres, a figure that is not negligible for the european continent. of course, the environmental impact of the exploitation of these gases must be taken into account, but the technologies used today worldwide can allow efficient exploitation, including in terms of environmental protection. a rational exploitation would have a dual purpose: to reduce the eu's dependence on gas imports, but also to create new jobs and horizontal industrial development.
i appreciate the european commission's proactive approach to the impact of the anticipated restructuring on the automotive industry. the crisis has taught us something, it has reminded us of a truth: that industry is extremely important for the soundness of the european economy, and the automobile industry is important for the european industrial base. not only does it create jobs in the countries where cars are assembled, it creates jobs through the supply chain in all member states. for example, no car today comes off a production line in germany without containing, for example, parts produced in romania. but the automobile industry is in global competition. it is a global industry, under strong global competition, and a european or a national policy can sustain or kill the competitiveness of this industry. if we look at it, there is no member state in the european union that is similar to another member state in terms of the tax regime for pollution, car registration taxes and so on, and these differences are obstacles to the development of the european automobile industry, obstacles to the single market. is there nothing we can do to harmonize the little things, to eliminate these differences? in the united states, as in other countries, governments have given substantial aid to the automobile industry to innovate, to move to lower carbon dioxide cars. we need to do the same.
at the moment, the whole of european industry is going through a difficult period and the outlook is not encouraging at all. this is all the more true in the automobile industry. competitiveness in this sector needs to be boosted, and the action plan adopted by the commission to this end focuses precisely on innovation and making the necessary investments in this area. the plan addresses both internal and external issues and aims to regulate and relaunch the sector. market conditions must be improved and the automotive industry must be given more support on the world market. as for my country, romania has the capacity to produce cars with cutting-edge industrial technology, and the new dacia models confirm this. the role of the egf has become more important in the context of the crisis, providing support to employees in the sector.
in writing. the steel industry accounts for 1.4% of european gdp. the restructuring of the european steel industry, together with the increase in steel imports from third countries, not subject to the same stringent environmental regulations, led to job losses in europe. thus, the steel workforce decreased from 1 million employees in 1970 to around 408 000 employees in 2008. in 2010, eu steel exports amounted to 33,7 million tonnes, the main importers being turkey, the usa, algeria, switzerland, russia and india, and union steel imports were 26,8 million tonnes, the main exporters being russia (6,5 million tonnes), ukraine (5,7 million tonnes), china (3,6 million tonnes), turkey (1,8 million tonnes), south korea, switzerland and serbia. against the background of the economic crisis, the steel industry in romania, belgium, sweden and bulgaria was the most affected. steel is the most widely used material in the world, due to its strength, flexibility and multiple uses, with production reaching 1.4 billion tonnes in 2010. the union needs a competitive steel industry capable of providing jobs throughout europe. i call on the commission and the member states to support the european steel industry to modernise, as it is only by becoming less polluting and more energy efficient that it can remain internationally competitive.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the the second generation schengen information system (sis ii) is a key tool for the security of the european area without internal border controls and one of the most tangible and important achievements of european integration. sis ii will replace the existing system, which has the capacity to serve the needs of a limited number of member states and to respond to a limited number of requests. improved technology gives the new schengen information system new functions and enables it to respond to a greater number of requests, thus enhancing the security of the schengen area and its citizens. in may 2012, the european commission presented its proposal for a revision of the two existing legal acts governing the transition from schengen i+ to the new sis ii. the presidency, aware that this is a necessary element of the transition process, has worked intensively to ensure that work proceeds quickly so that agreement can be reached on the text of the proposal. the debate on the council proposal resulted in a change in the legal structure of the original commission proposal in order to bring it into line with the usual practice for legal proposals involving ireland and the united kingdom and to ensure a more transparent procedure. the presidency would like to thank the rapporteur of the european parliament and the european parliament for all the efforts they have made to ensure the timely and rapid adoption of the reports on the proposals, thus enabling the council to proceed with their final adoption. as you will have generally understood, the responsibility for the development and completion of sis ii has been taken over by the european commission and the deadline for the operational operation of the system is still the end of the first quarter of 2013, according to the latest overall timetable drawn up by the european commission. the adoption of the legal proposals governing the transition will be another essential step towards the objective of sis ii becoming operational in the first quarter of 2013. this also requires that both the central and all national systems should be ready by the aforementioned time period. the european commission regularly informs the council of the state of progress of sis ii and a further update is expected at the justice and home affairs council on 6 and 7 december. i hope that by then it will be clear whether the target of completing the system by the end of march 2013 remains achievable.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, sis ii is a major milestone in the completion of the area of freedom, security and justice. i look forward to what i hope will be a positive vote tomorrow on the migration instrument recast proposal. this is essential in laying down both the migration procedure and the underlying legal framework, and is indispensable for sis ii to become operational. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr coelho, and the civil liberties committee for their constructive spirit and cooperation throughout the procedure. the commission aims to guarantee the highest level of data protection throughout the migration. the proposal by the european parliament in this area provides further clarity and can, therefore, be strongly supported by the commission. the commission regards data cleansing as a priority and has on several occasions made member states aware of the crucial importance of this issue in order to avoid substantial numbers of rejected alerts by the new system. on this basis, the commission can also support the relevant amendments put forward in the reports. in order to enhance transparency, the commission is ready to provide the european parliament with information about the testing activities laid down in the proposal as well as about the completion of the migration. under article 18 of the migration instruments, the commission will deliver progress reports to the european parliament and to the council every six months concerning the technical development of sis ii and migration-related activities. however, the commission cannot support the inclusion of requirements obliging member states to delete non-migrated data, as these data are subject to national law and the supervision of the national data protection authorities in accordance with the schengen convention. undeniable progress has been made in the sis ii project over the last two years at both central and national level. the commission has already informed the parliament of the successful completion of the milestone 2 test earlier this year and of the very good performance of the central system and most national systems during the last round of testing, known as the comprehensive test. so i would like to underline the fact that we are actually very close to completion. this is unfortunately not the case for finland, where there has been a slight delay in completing its national system. the finnish authorities notified the commission of this in late october in a letter from the finnish interior minister. commissioner malmström raised this issue as an urgent matter for finland to address at the justice and home affairs (jha) council a few days later. immediately after the jha council, the commission organised a fact-finding mission to finland to assess the extent of the difficulties encountered by their national project. a number of risk mitigation actions were agreed with finland, which could, alongside the assistance that will be provided to their experts, minimise the impact on the overall project schedule but cannot prevent some delay. the commission’s services are analysing in detail the implications of the problem encountered by finland. on the basis of the detailed information requested from finland on its remedial action plan, the commission’s intention is to present a new timetable to the december jha council on 6 and 7 december 2012 and, of course, to inform the parliament at the same time.
the reports we are debating tonight on migration to sis ii were adopted in the libe committee by a simplified procedure, in order to make available to the commission and the member states as soon as possible both the legal instruments and the funds needed to move to the new generation of sis. this spirit of good faith and cooperation of parliament unfortunately stands in stark contrast to the attitude of some member states which show a lack of interest in the success of sis ii. i sincerely share my personal frustration, but also that of the whole european parliament, with regard to this endless problem of the schengen ii information system. it is already ridiculous that an information system, even if complex, should take more than 12 years to develop and implement and even now the member states and the commission cannot keep their commitments and repeat the mistakes of the past. in this case, there is a worrying lack of responsibility, both on the part of finland, which shows a lack of interest in carrying out simple tests, and on the part of the commission. the basic condition imposed by parliament on the commission for the release of funds for the development of sis ii was its commitment to respect and closely monitor the migration process. unfortunately, the commission has not kept its commitment. all of this once again highlights the reasons why the whole management of the schengen area must be changed and europeanised. if we had an effective community assessment mechanism, all these delays could have been avoided and much more prompt action could have been taken to correct problems such as finland's. finally, i would like to note the irony of the situation where romania and bulgaria, candidate countries which, although they fulfil all the requirements of the acquis to access the schengen area, are not accepted to join, and an old schengen member state has serious problems with respecting the acquis.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i thank members for all their comments. i assure you that i have taken good note of the concerns expressed in the debate, and i can tell you that the commission shares many of them. despite the delay, we are very, very close to completion of the sis ii project. the central system amply proved its robustness to the satisfaction of the vast majority of the member states, and the project has now reached the point of no return. the objective of bringing the system into operation as soon as possible remains, therefore, an imperative which must not be compromised. experience shows that this is only possible through overall constructive cooperation and solidarity promoted by all the stakeholders. the commission is further ready to provide any possible support needed to overcome all the remaining challenges. the added value that sis ii will bring to our common area of freedom and security merits our utmost engagement to ensure the final delivery. many of your comments and worries have centred on the fact that we witnessed a delay in the readiness of finland, and baroness ludford asked why the problem had not been detected earlier. here i would like to emphasise that the monitoring system for national development, namely the sis ii task force, was put in place by the council some time ago but it obviously failed to detect the technical issues arising in finland. as you know, the member states bear full responsibility for the system at their level, and given that finland did not volunteer for an earlier testing campaign, the national issues there were revealed only in the last round of tests, which were mandatory for all member states. at the same time, i believe this is still an issue which we can solve together because now we have cooperation with finland, and the commission and the other member states are making efforts to assist as much as possible. i believe that, with all the other member states, the migration will start as planned in january, and finland will join these efforts once it is ready. concerning the complete switchover, we have to wait until the whole system is ready, but i believe that we are really very close to that point and we will do our utmost to have a clear answer for you after thorough examination of the issue and the discussion among the interior ministers on 5 and 6 december at the meeting of the justice and home affairs council. in relation to ms vergiat’s concerns about data protection, it has to be emphasised that sis ii is a very important and robust eu instrument. it increases the functionality, capacity and performance of the system and it also improves governance and accountability, through greater safeguards on data protection. so i believe that, once the system is in place and operational, we will all benefit from the high quality of reliable services and the new information which we will be able to obtain, and i think it will further improve the way we actually use the freedoms we have as citizens, including freedom of travel.
he is seeking the presidency of the council. - the mr president, i should like to begin by addressing the question of the application of the provisions of the schengen acquis to romania and bulgaria. the presidency remains fully committed to the successful enlargement of the schengen area and continues to work towards this goal. the issue was on the agenda of the justice and home affairs council on 25 october, where the presidency briefed the member states on the state of progress of efforts to fully implement the provisions of the schengen acquis in bulgaria and romania. after consulting all the parties concerned, the presidency informed that, unfortunately, the consensus required for the adoption of the relevant council decision was clearly not possible at this stage. the presidency also made available to all delegations the overall overview of the implementation of the pre-defined measures designed to contribute to the successful enlargement of the schengen area. the presidency hopes that, on the basis of the above, the enlargement of the schengen area can be achieved in the near future. as regards the delay in the project implementation schedule, there is some indication that the national system of one member state may not be ready in time by the end of march. this has of course not yet been confirmed and it is therefore premature to make any statement on the precise conclusions that can be drawn from the attempt to tackle these problems. as i have already said, the european commission will inform the council in december and i hope that we will then have a better and clearer picture of the situation. similar problems and delays have occurred in the past. the commission has already made a number of proposals to this effect, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them. my own assessment is that any delay that arises as a result of the latest developments will be very short-lived. mr president, the presidency would like to express once again its gratitude for the efforts made by the european parliament to ensure the rapid adoption of the reports which will be taken into account by the council in the final settlement of the matter. as regards any concerns about the progress of sis ii completion, the presidency will continue to monitor developments closely and will remain in close contact with all those involved in an effort to minimise any problems that could adversely affect the timely completion of the project.
the transition to the second generation of the schengen information system will contribute to the enhancement of security at the external borders. the sis is considered to be the backbone of the area of freedom, security and justice. sis ii will allow the addition of biometric data and new functions that can increase security within the union and lead to a more intelligent use of the information transmitted in the system. romania has adopted all technical measures for the implementation of the schengen information system and is ready to connect to the system. the evaluation missions carried out in my country have certified this fact. romania has also fulfilled all the criteria for accession to the schengen area and has completed their technical implementation. this was acknowledged by the justice and home affairs council in june 2011 and by the resolution adopted by the european parliament in october 2011, but the adoption of a decision is blocked in the council and the reasons for the blockage have nothing to do with romania's preparation for entry into the schengen area. i think that such an attitude is not constructive and does not encourage cooperation within the union. that is why i once again call for the situation to be resolved and for romania's accession to the schengen area to be decided.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would first like to thank the rapporteur, mr chichester, for his work in drafting this valuable report as well as ms mazzoni and the whole petitions committee, whose impressive work is reflected in this report. the report points to some of the most topical and sensitive areas subject to the citizens’ petition in the field of environment and fundamental rights, on which the commission and parliament are already working closely and will continue to exchange information and views. today’s debate marks a good opportunity to underline my appreciation of parliament’s remarkable commitment to the smooth implementation of article 227 of the treaty, which reserves the right of any eu citizen resident in the member state or any company, organisation, association with its headquarters in the eu to submit a petition to the european parliament. the commission is particularly happy to be able to contribute to parliament’s important work. this is a considerable investment in terms of resources. and it is worth it, since handling the citizen’s petitions is ultimately also a means for the eu institutions of winning citizens’ trust in these difficult times. in this regard, the european parliament and the commission clearly share the commitment to put citizens first. citizens are and must always remain at the centre of all our activities and discussions. as rightly mentioned in the lichtenberger report, which is the next point on this plenary session’s agenda, the committee on petitions plays a central role as an effective link between citizens, the parliament and the commission. this is why the commission always includes a section on petitions in its annual report on the application of the eu law, in which we recognise that petitions to the european parliament lead to infringement proceedings in a number of areas. in the next annual report on the application of eu law, which will be adopted in the coming weeks, we also plan to indicate the concrete number of cases which had their origin in petitions. with this in mind, please let me reiterate our willing and continued collaboration with your work on parliament’s committee on petitions. as mr chichester’s report points out, you asked us for help with over half of the almost 1000 admissible petitions which you received in 2011. although our help initially consists mainly in analysing what eu law, if any, might be applicable in the case, we also attend the follow-up meetings of your petitions. it is important that my fellow members of the commission continue to attend key meetings for exchanges of views with your committee. allow me to say a few words on the european citizens’ initiative, a system in which the petitions committee has a relevant role. since 1 april 2012 a new tool of participatory democracy has been in place at eu level with the entry into application of the european citizens’ initiative. the initial technical problems encountered are being solved. the commission has put its own servers at the disposal of organisers and provided extended help, guidance and assistance to them for the certification process. three initiatives are now up and running, collecting signatures on-line even as we speak. i would like to assure you that i am committed to making sure that citizens can make full use of their new rights, and i look forward to our cooperation in that regard. i would like to conclude by stressing that the commission looks forward to continuing and enhancing its fruitful cooperation with parliament’s petitions committee.
on behalf of the epp group. as you know, the committee on petitions does not appear very often on the agenda of the plenary. however, the work of this committee is extremely important. it is about accepting citizens' grievances, and in this context, it is about defending the rights of european citizens. this is why the committee holds a large number of hearings each year. this is also why we maintain a close dialogue with the european commission, the member states and other bodies and institutions such as the european ombudsman. unfortunately, almost half of the petitions submitted are still inadmissible because they concern matters which are outside the union's competence, and i therefore believe that it is very good from now on to provide citizens with additional information about the union in general and parliament in particular. i also believe that the involvement of the committee on petitions in organising hearings on proposed european citizens' initiatives, which commissioner šefčovič also mentioned, can make a positive contribution to this information process. i would also like to say that, apart from the countries mentioned by mr chichester last year, germany, spain and italy, as the first in the order of petitions, poland and romania are next, which shows us that both citizens of the old member states and citizens of the new member states are involved in defending their rights at european level. the main topics covered by the petitions are: environmental protection, the internal market, fundamental rights, not coincidentally, because these are fundamental areas of the union. i would like to conclude my brief speech by saying that i support the effective and appropriate use of this instrument which serves to establish a direct dialogue between parliament and the citizens.
on behalf of the s&d group. let me begin by congratulating the rapporteur, mr chichester, on his excellent report and on the excellent cooperation we have had during the drafting and committee debates. as in previous years, the committee on petitions received a very large number of petitions concerning infringements of european environmental legislation. once again, i would ask the member states to attach particular importance to these matters. the quality of the daily lives of european citizens and the preservation of our union's unique natural heritage are both at stake. in this context, i welcome commissioner potočnik's initiative to come up with an amendment to the directive on 'environmental impact assessment' and i would like to underline the contribution that the committee on petitions has made to this development. i ask that this change be made in the first place by taking account of clear, transparent criteria and guaranteeing the neutrality and objectivity of impact studies, given that these are the major weaknesses of the present directive. our commission has been and is a place where european citizens express their concerns about the non-respect of european rights. the only amendment tabled by the s&d group goes in that direction. on behalf of the european citizens and myself, i call today on all member states and the european commission to respect the freedom of movement for all european citizens, regardless of nationality, race or sexual orientation.
as vice-chair of the committee on petitions, i have come to the conclusion that petitioning can be the best method of bringing to the public's attention the problems faced by ordinary citizens in the face of injustices by the authorities. in 2011, the majority of petitions were related to fundamental rights issues. one thing i do not agree with and hope that in the future this will be corrected is that too many petitions contain political subjects which are, in any case, national and not community competence and which should not be declared admissible from the outset. some examples would be topics such as: freedom of the press, cyanide mining in rosia montana, community dogs and, more recently, shale gas exploitation. i hope that in future the admissibility of such petitions will be more thoroughly analysed, that it will be clearer when political issues on the agenda of a member state are brought before the committee on petitions. as with the peti commission visit to romania, the same thing is happening with most documentary visits to other member states. as members of parliament, we each belong to a political party, but we should use this committee only in the interests of the citizens and not to serve the interests of the party, to attack or defend the government in power in a member state.
to move forward in the process of integration, it is not enough to adopt community legislation. its implementation is also important, and the 2010 report shows that there are major shortcomings at the level of some member states. romania is not, and in 2010 it only appeared before the court of justice once. although the number of cases brought against my country increased in 2010, the authorities were able to remedy the deficiencies before they reached the court. it is an example of effective cooperation between the commission and the romanian authorities. another important point in the report is the role of petitions in monitoring the application of community law. they are a great way for citizens to draw attention to breaches of european rules, and early resolution of problems can also reduce the risk of a member state being brought before the court.
this is the first time that the multiannual financial framework has been discussed under the lisbon treaty. unfortunately, the provisions of the treaty have created difficulties and, in my view, diminish the democratic character of the adoption of the budget. the approval procedure for the mff and the codecision procedure for horizontal policies are contradictory, not complementary. the european council is not respecting the treaty and is proposing elements that should be negotiated in codecision. the council and parliament were blocked in the co-decision process by imposing a non-negotiation of the resources needed for european policies. the rotating presidency of the european council has drawn up one proposal, the president of the european council another. my opinion: i don't think this is normal. both down on the commission's proposal. in this time of crisis, all member states are increasing their national budget allocations for investment, growth and jobs. the same must be true of the european budget, which is 94% investment budget. the net taxpayers know very well that a euro invested in one region of europe brings benefits to other regions of the union. if there is public money to support the banking system, there must be funds to support european policies that create growth and jobs and, by implication, healthy support for the banking system. the european council endorsed the 2020 strategy - european and national targets. the same council has a duty to ensure that the european budget is adequate to meet these objectives. i think the members of the council have to choose between a populist stance, which means cutting, and a development-oriented stance, because the money will go back to the member states.
i would like to say at the outset that parliament and the european commission are united in defending the interest of europeans in a budget for development and investment and i welcome the contribution of the president of the european commission, mr barroso. i want to say, as rapporteur for the cohesion fund report, that the logic behind president van rompuy's statements and proposal is simply shocking. on the one hand, he says that cohesion policy is aimed at reducing disparities, but then in his documents we find three things that are all against the first thesis: a substantial reduction in the budget for cohesion policy, a reduction in co-financing rates for the least developed regions of the european union and, even more surprisingly, the punishment of regions with a low absorption rate and, on top of all this, the macroeconomic conditionalities that parliament has always rejected. mr van rompuy and the council must understand that we cannot ban the word 'solidarity' in europe and that the european union cannot be a rich and selfish centre and a poor periphery. i am sorry to say to president van rompuy that he has forgotten the role of cohesion policy and, more importantly, the role of the european parliament as co-legislator. if the council comes up with the same unacceptable proposal, parliament has only one chance: to reject this budget, which is basically anti-european.
in writing. the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework are taking place in a very special context, that of austerity policies in most member states. we're all aware of that. but i would like to stress that despite this, i do not think that the cuts in the european budget for 2014-2020, in the form proposed by the commission, are a good idea. the european budget must be complementary to national budgets, financing joint activities that neutralize as much as possible national austerity. the european budget must be a budget for economic growth, which we so badly need! the union needs a genuine budget, able to respond to the expectations of european citizens towards the eu. we cannot say that we want a high degree of economic, social and territorial cohesion, the deepening of the single market and economic growth, and at the same time cut the budget lines that finance these objectives! i therefore call on the members of the european council to take these matters into account and to take a responsible decision on the cfm so that the eu is not deprived of the financial means necessary to act in its sphere of competence.
in writing. – the eu budget represents a very strong tool to increase strategic investment with european added value and put the european economy back on track, generating growth and employment while aiming to foster economic and social cohesion throughout the eu. it is important to increase funding for employment, education, training, mobility, youth and social inclusion. social inclusion of young europeans has to be mainstreamed and prioritised in all relevant policies financed from the eu budget. youth-related instruments, such as the youth guarantee, have to be proposed by the european commission. the necessary funding for cohesion policy (structural funds and cohesion fund) should remain available for all regions and maintained at least at 2007-13 level. 25 % of the overall funding for cohesion policy should be allocated to esf (european social fund) to promote employability and social investment. 20 % of esf funding should be set aside for promoting social inclusion and combating poverty. european globalisation fund shall be continued and upgraded as in instrument to help all categories of workers to re-enter the labour market and acquire new skills. also, an adequate support for achieving the eu 2020 targets and union objectives for climate, energy, resource-efficiency and biodiversity should be provided.
in writing. the main cause of the deepening of inequalities and the economic crisis in the european union is the greed of some member states and the fact that they often forget the principles of solidarity that govern this union. we need investment in priority areas more than ever, and i believe that cutting budgets for policies that have proven to be very successful, such as cohesion policy and the cap, will seriously damage the eu's economic growth and global competitiveness. for this reason, mr van rompuy's proposal to reduce the budget for cohesion policy by 30 billion euros and the cap by 25 billion euros is unacceptable and the member states must vote against it!
in writing. – the dispute over the multiannual financial framework is not about money but about the future of the eu. it is not about figures but about the political principles generating those figures. a smaller european budget does not mean necessarily better spending, but more likely wasted resources and opportunities. we have to provide the eu with the financial resources necessary for achieving its objectives. any disparity between needs, ambitions and funding is a loss. a bigger eu budget does not mean bigger burdens on the shoulders of the national taxpayers but a better use and distribution of the taxpayers’ money. bigger cohesion funds do not mean that the more productive member states pay for the inefficiency of the less productive states. it means providing opportunities for growth for both more developed and less developed members. solidarity is not charity but the only form of intelligent selfishness in difficult times. on the background of the economic crisis, this framework does not offer solutions for stimulating european solidarity, economic growth or job creation, but rather pushes for national selfishness, absurd austerity and nations’ fragmentation. therefore the council’s draft is unacceptable. parliament and the commission’s positions are the least one could support.
i wanted to speak and explain my vote, which was in favour, because i considered that monitoring the application of union law is one of the important levers by which parliament, the commission and the council can prevent, in some way, the effects of the crisis. in my view, if anything was wrong, it was the way the union treaties were applied, the biased and preferential way in which infringement procedures were initiated. articles 258 and 260 of the treaty on european union provide that all member states are to benefit from this procedure in the event of a breach of the provisions of the treaties. unfortunately, this has not happened, and that is why i believe that a revised regulation is absolutely necessary in principle.
madam president, i voted for this report. the correct application of eu law is primarily a task for the member states’ administration and judiciary. greater access to information on complaints, infringement files and other enforcement mechanisms must be provided. the commission must follow more closely and with severity the transposition of directives before the end of the transposition deadline. member states with a bad record should be named and shamed. we have experienced significant differences among member states on their political will to transpose eu directives, as well as their capacity to do so. if we continue in this way, the trust of member states in one another and the trust of their citizens will decrease, with a negative impact on trust in the union’s capacity to enforce the application of its own laws. trust unites us and mistrust divides us. let us stay united.
i abstained on this report, although i consider it balanced. but i think that at the moment there is no scientific data to assess the impact of hydraulic fracturing on shale gas extraction. i also believe that in the european union, although there are relevant documents, i mean a few directives on the subject, the impact on the environment is crucial and i believe that any exploitation must be conditioned by the impact on the environment. of course, i join those who believe that this technology, at this moment, is harmful. this has been seen in farms in the united states; there are a lot of analyses of the aggressive environmental impact in this area. unfortunately, however, in the european union, we do not have such analyses, although we have the resources. i think the call to the member states to be very careful about how they regulate this technology of using hydraulic fracturing is an important one.
i voted in favour of this report because shale gas is becoming increasingly important as a potential new source of supply. at present, it is too early to determine whether significant amounts of gas could be exploited in europe, but some member states have already allowed the exploitation of shale gas and, if identified, will also carry out its extraction. each member state has the right to choose its sources of energy supply. i think there is no reason against the exploitation of shale gas as long as environmental standards are not violated, and there are currently no european environmental standards for shale gas. finally, i would remind you that the exploitation of shale gas is a matter for the national competence of each member state.
i abstained. although the report highlights some scientifically proven issues related to shale gas exploitation, there are still many unknowns. i can accept that europe is not competitive in energy. i can accept that prices and dependence on imports are high, but we must find a balance between the environmental impact and this need for energy resources. recent studies, however, indicate that the environmental impact can be disastrous in the medium to long term. there have been no analyses of the quality of the water used, of the land use, no analyses of the impact on flora and fauna, natural resources, agriculture and, in general, all economic activities. however, in this report i welcomed the request that the european environment agency should carry out scientific expertise on this impact, because unfortunately many member states which could and are willing to exploit these shale gases do not have the technological capacity to investigate the environmental impact of the gases. i think, to solve an initial issue, we can't pawn a future.
i voted for this report because europe needs alternative sources of energy. for the moment, romania has started prospecting for shale gas and they are being done by representatives of the american company chevron. i would stress that any discovery of resources would only be a continuation of romania's efforts to ensure its energy security. if shale gas is discovered in the black sea area, romania will certainly enforce compliance with all environmental standards. the reputation of the company that will carry out the process indicates that the most advanced technologies will be used, which are also environmentally friendly. job creation must also be generated by the exploitation of indigenous mineral resources and not just by foreign investment, but there is a need for good public information on shale gas operations and for public debate on these issues.
in writing. - i welcome the appointment of the new commissioner responsible for health and consumer protection, tonio borg, and wish him every success in his work.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i too support the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund for the earthquakes that occurred in the emilia-romagna region of italy in may 2012. i believe that financial assistance should be released as soon as possible to provide support to all those affected by natural disasters. i also believe that involvement is needed at both european and local and regional levels to achieve the best results. we need better coordination for future requests for assistance from the fund. and at the same time, we must remove all obstacles, such as unjustified deferral of decisions, from the path of more prompt granting.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 5/2012 of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iii commission. draft amending budget no 5/2012 concerns the mobilisation of an amount of eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations from the eu solidarity fund (eusf) in connection with the series of earthquakes that occurred in emilia-romagna, italy, in may 2012. the purpose of the draft amending budget is to allow for final payments, given the overall insufficient level of payment appropriations for 2012. financial assistance must be rapidly released from the eusf for the benefit of those affected by natural disasters and we welcome the prompt submission by the italian authorities of their request for financial assistance from the eusf, as well as the prompt submission by the commission of its proposal to mobilise the eusf. we call on all stakeholders in the member states, both at local and regional level, as well as on national authorities to better assess needs and improve coordination for possible future requests for assistance from the eusf, in order to accelerate the mobilisation of the fund as much as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i too support the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund in favour of italy. i think the assistance is more than welcome, considering the earthquakes that occurred in the area in may 2012. several areas of that country were affected by strong earthquakes, which caused extensive damage to both cities and villages. and in these circumstances, i believe that businesses, buildings, infrastructure, as well as agriculture and cultural heritage, must be supported as urgently as possible. it is particularly important that the damage suffered by the population in regions affected by natural disasters be remedied. and the rapid mobilisation of the fund will make a significant contribution to achieving this.
in writing. − the european union solidarity fund was set up in response to the devastating floods in central europe in the summer of 2002. by march 2012, the fund had been used in 48 cases to provide emergency aid to victims of major natural disasters. the fund has supported 23 member states with €2.5 billion. the request by italy was made following the earthquakes that occurred in may 2012. the death toll was 27, with about 350 injured and over 45,000 people evacuated. the damage was significant in terms of volume and severity, affecting buildings, infrastructure, enterprises, industrial equipment, agriculture and cultural heritage, an important sector. in this respect, i consider that the mobilisation of the solidarity fund is necessary to support italy in remedying the damage caused.
in writing. − the earthquakes in italy in may left 27 dead, some 350 injured and over 45 000 people evacuated, making them some of the most tragic events in the european union in recent times. i think that the european union has done very well in giving italy this financial aid and has once again demonstrated its characteristic spirit of solidarity. however, i would like to reiterate that i am totally outraged by the way this fund is operating. the fundraising duration is unacceptably high. they thus want to improve the efficiency and speed of the administrative procedures required to mobilise the fund. the need for three european institutions to be involved in the approval process delays and prolongs the time needed to assist member states affected by a disaster, thus diminishing the expected results.
in writing. − i voted to mobilise the european solidarity fund for italy, which requested assistance following the earthquakes that struck italy in the spring of 2012. on 20 may 2012, large areas of northern italy were affected by a strong earthquake with a magnitude of 5.9 on the richter scale, which caused severe damage in many towns and villages, especially in the provinces of modena and ferrara in the emilia-romagna region. on may 29, 2012, another strong earthquake occurred, with a magnitude of 5.8 on the richter scale. both earthquakes were followed by several strong aftershocks. the death toll was 27, with about 350 injured and over 45,000 people evacuated. the commission notes that the estimated total direct damage exceeds the minimum threshold, and therefore the disaster is classified as a 'major natural disaster' and thus falls within the main scope of regulation (ec) no 2012/2002. the commission proposes to mobilise the european union solidarity fund to provide a total amount of eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations. i welcome the commission's proposal to rapidly mobilise the solidarity fund to help the affected citizens of the provinces of modena and ferrara, italy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that we need a solution acceptable to all our trading partners. i believe that by adopting the regulation, it will be possible to reach an agreement on compensation satisfactory to all parties involved. and at the same time, the increase in the consolidated tariffs will be counterbalanced. i also believe that the level of protection must be increased so that the union's trading partners can benefit from the tariff quotas. i draw attention to the fact that the import substitution effects affecting the union poultry industry need to be addressed in the most coherent way possible. i would stress that the conclusion of the internal procedures must be notified simultaneously to both thailand and brazil.
in writing. − in june 2012, the european union signed the agreement with brazil and thailand on the modification of concessions on processed poultrymeat. in order to implement the provisions of this agreement, it is necessary to adopt a regulation implementing regulation no 2658/87. i consider that an increased level of protection is necessary to address the import substitution effects affecting the eu poultry industry. at the same time, the eu's trading partners must receive adequate compensation through tariff quotas.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation on the implementation of the agreements concluded by the eu following the negotiations under article xxviii of gatt 1994 and amending and supplementing annex i to regulation (eec) no 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the common customs tariff. on 25 may 2009, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations under article xxviii of gatt 1994 with a view to renegotiating concessions on tariff lines for poultrymeat included in chapter 16 of the combined nomenclature. the negotiations resulted in the conclusion of agreements in the form of exchanges of letters initialled with the kingdom of thailand on 22 november 2011 and with the federative republic of brazil on 7 december 2011. pursuant to article 1 of the regulation, the second part of annex i (list of customs duties) to regulation (eec) no 2658/87 is amended by introducing the duties referred to in the annex to the regulation. the autonomous customs duties are fixed at the level of the conventional customs duties.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the allocation of tariff quotas for russian timber exports to the eu. in view of the economic importance for the union of imports of raw wood and the importance of the russian federation as a supplier of raw wood to the union, the commission has negotiated commitments with the russian federation that the latter will reduce or eliminate export duties for raw wood. these commitments, which became part of the world trade organisation (wto) list of concessions and commitments on goods of the russian federation upon its accession to the wto, include tariff quotas for the export of certain specified types of coniferous wood, part of which has been allocated to exports to the union. in accordance with the provisions of the agreement, the union shall administer the part of the quota allocated to it in accordance with its internal procedures. decision 2012/105/eu provides that the commission is to adopt detailed rules concerning the method of allocating quota authorisations in accordance with the protocol and any other provisions necessary for the administration by the union of the quantities under the tariff quotas allocated to exports to the union.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report, as i too support the agreements with brazil and thailand. i believe that the level of protection needs to be increased to avoid all the existing gaps. i also believe that all the union's trading partners and all the wto members should be compensated appropriately, and this can be done through tariff quotas. i would like to stress that solutions must be found which are acceptable to all trading partners. in this context, maintaining a general level of reciprocal concessions that are advantageous to the parties involved is an important condition. thus, by complying with the wto system of rules, the high level of protection will be compensated.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the modification of the concessions on processed poultrymeat between the eu and brazil and thailand. following the negotiations under article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade (gatt) 1994 on poultrymeat, the eu has seen a marked increase in imports of processed poultrymeat. foreign exporters appeared to benefit from a relative difference in the level of protection by reducing the meat/poultry organ content of preparations to a level below 57%, thus qualifying for a close tariff line. as the sharp increase in imports of processed poultry meat has negatively affected the european poultry industry, the commission was authorised by the council to negotiate the modification of the concessions on poultry meat. the commission has been negotiating with brazil and thailand, whose exports would be most affected by the modification of the concessions, each of which has interests as a major supplier. the negotiations resulted in agreements whereby a mutually advantageous countervailing adjustment was agreed to balance the increase in customs duties. the regulation should enter into force on the same date as the two agreements, following the notifications from thailand and brazil.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending the annexes to protocols 1 and 2 to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the ec and israel. in 2005, the council authorised the commission to negotiate with certain mediterranean countries to achieve greater liberalisation of trade in agricultural products, processed agricultural products, fish and fishery products. negotiations with israel were successfully concluded in 2008. the results of those negotiations are incorporated in an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters concerning certain reciprocal liberalisation measures relating to agricultural products, fish and fishery products, replacing protocols 1 and 2 and their annexes, and amending the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part. following the entry into force of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters in 2010, the european commission and israel held certain technical meetings related to its implementation. the meetings showed that some technical adjustments are needed to meet the commitments in the previous agreements between the european communities and the state of israel, which entered into force in 2000 and 2006. on 19 september 2011, negotiations between the commission and israel on the necessary technical adaptations were concluded.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the protocol on the administration of tariff quotas is a particularly important instrument for the stability and reliability of trade relations. i draw attention to the fact that it is essential to avoid the repetition of the consecutive increases applied by the russian federation to timber export duties. over time, they have affected a large number of union producers. i also believe that the eu has a strong offensive interest in this agreement. he envisages a major improvement in the supply of timber from the russian federation. the agreement is also welcome as it aims to ensure greater predictability as well as better trading conditions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the conclusion of the agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union and the russian federation on the administration of tariff quotas applying to exports of wood from the russian federation to the european union and of the protocol between the european union and the government of the russian federation on technical modalities adopted pursuant to the said agreement. the russian federation has committed to reduce the levels of export duties it currently applies to raw materials, including raw wood products. the russian federation introduced tariff quotas for certain types of wood, namely wood from certain coniferous species. low export duties are applied to exports from the russian federation for quantities exported within the quota and high, even prohibitive, duties for products not falling within the quota. these quotas have been set at a relatively high level for the eu, at least taking into account the expected short-term demand. this bilateral agreement defines the general provisions for the implementation of the tariff sub-quotas. i welcome the conclusion of the protocol between the eu and the russian federation laying down the detailed technical arrangements for this shared management of tariff quotas.
in writing. − i would like to insist on the crucial role of sis ii in building a europe without borders and increasing the security of the schengen area. i support the commission’s proposal related to the migration from sis 1+ to sis ii. in parallel to its intention to apply the legal framework for sis ii from the moment the first member state completes its switchover to the new system. i welcome the commission’s proposal to provide for the possibility to co-finance certain national activities related to the migration up to 75 %. nevertheless, given the political importance of the issue and its significant budget, i regret that the european parliament is only limited to a consulting role.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the draft regulation on the migration from the schengen information system (sis 1+) to the second generation schengen information system (sis ii). the objective of this regulation is to reform regulation (ec) no 1104/2008 and council decision 2008/839/jha into a single legal instrument. this regulation lays down the tasks and responsibilities of the commission and the member states participating in sis 1+ with regard to the maintenance and further development of sis ii, the full testing of sis ii, the testing of supplementary information, the further development and testing of a conversion system, the establishment and testing of a temporary migration structure and the migration from sis 1+ to sis ii. the development of sis ii shall be completed by 30 june 2013 at the latest. bulgaria and romania are taking part in this process in accordance with article 4 (2) of the 2005 act of accession and council decision 2010/365/eu of 29 june 2012 on the application of the provisions of the schengen acquis relating to the schengen information system to the republic of bulgaria and romania. in addition to the recording of automated searches, member states and the commission should ensure that the applicable data protection rules are fully respected during the migration from sis 1+ to sis ii.
in writing. − the european area of freedom, security and justice relies on the schengen information system (sis). with sis ii, the system’s second generation, data will be better secured and shared information used more efficiently. the migration from sis 1+ to sis ii will be challenging and should take place as early as possible. in this respect, i welcome the commission’s proposal to apply the legal framework for sis ii from the moment the first member state completes its switchover to the new system. this will reinforce legal certainty and prevent unnecessary expenses in the member states. however, if we want sis ii to reach its full potential, we must make sure that it receives data of high-quality. prior to the start of the migration from sis 1+ to sis ii, member states must verify that all the personal data to be migrated to sis ii are accurate, up-to-date and lawful in accordance with decision 2007/533/jha. the success of the migration will be determined by the member states’ cooperation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report, as i believe that the european parliament has a responsibility to help meet the deadlines for implementing sis ii, as this regulation is part of the migration process to the new schengen information system. the reports on migration to sis ii were adopted in the libe committee by a simplified procedure, in order to make available to the commission and the member states as soon as possible both the legal instruments and the funds necessary for the transition to the new generation of sis. i hope that the commission and the member states will both honour their commitments and fully respect their responsibilities and the timetable for implementing sis ii.
in writing. − in the process of applying european law at member state level, national courts play an important role. to improve this process, it is essential to continue the legal training process of all legal, judicial and administrative authorities on the one hand, but also of the legal professions and national administrations. this constant effort will lead to the respect of the concept of a union based on the rule of law.
in writing. − it is encouraging to read in this report that 88% of the infringement cases completed in 2010 did not reach the court of justice, as member states had remedied the legal problems raised by the commission before the next stage of the infringement procedure was initiated. however, i believe that monitoring of member states should continue as there are many cases where it has been shown that problems reappear after a case has been closed. moreover, the commission should consider the possibility of imposing financial penalties as a measure to ensure compliance with the legislation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the 28th annual report of the commission on monitoring the application of european union law. the environment, the internal market and taxation are the policy areas with the highest risk of non-compliance and account for 52% of all non-compliance findings. we welcome the use by the commission of a large number of tools to facilitate the process of transposition of european legislation into national law (transposition checklists, manuals or information bulletins) and encourage the commission to follow up the transposition of directives before the transposition deadline even more closely, in order to allow for rapid intervention. we emphasise that the petition is the tool that citizens, civil society organisations and businesses can use to inform about the non-compliance with eu law by member state authorities at different levels. national courts play a key role in the application of eu law and fully support eu efforts to improve and coordinate the legal training of legal, judicial and administrative authorities and members of the legal professions, official representatives and officials in national administrations.
in writing. − in order to have an objective view of shale gas and oil extraction, i believe it is important to monitor regulatory mechanisms and practices globally and to address concerns about the environmental effects of extraction. regulation should aim to minimise the impact on the environment and to strike a reasonable balance based on scientific findings and a comprehensive analysis of risks and benefits. the commission and the national competent authorities should continue to study the possible environmental effects, but from a scientific perspective and based on statistics covering reliable sources in the member states and worldwide.
in writing. − studies carried out at the request of the european commission clearly demonstrate that shale gas exploitation poses major risks to the environment and human health. the commission must carry out without delay a detailed assessment of the impact on the environment and human health of the exploration and extraction of shale gas and take, as soon as possible and in accordance with the principles of the existing treaties, all necessary measures to review, supplement and extend the current eu legislation on the environment and health protection. the commission should also, in collaboration with the member states and the competent regulatory authorities, establish a permanent monitoring of activities and developments in this area. although shale gas may seem to be a solution to the current energy crisis, it is not a solution for the future. efforts and investments should be channelled towards increasing the share of renewable energy and energy efficiency. only 'clean' energy, based on 100% renewable energy, gives us a chance to protect our environment, climate, health and resources.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction activities, as shale gas exploitation requires a thorough examination of all effects (on the environment, public health and climate change) before further development of this technology. governments in europe, such as those of france, bulgaria, the german state of north rhine-westphalia, the swiss cantons of fribourg and vaud, and a number of u.s. states have instituted a ban or moratorium on the use of hydraulic fracturing to extract oil and shale gas. i voted for amendment no 5, which, on the basis of the precautionary principle and the principle of preventive action, taking into account the risks and negative effects on the climate, the environment and health of hydraulic fracturing and the gaps identified in the regulatory framework in the eu for shale gas activities, urges member states not to authorise any new hydraulic fracturing operations in the eu. i voted in favour of calling for a ban on hydraulic fracturing in certain vulnerable and high-risk areas, for example in protected drinking water reserves and underground, and in coal mining areas.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and oil. shale gas is a big opportunity for all member states; it is a challenge. it is an opportunity to make member states more independent from major suppliers. of course shale gas has some environmental risk; this is why it is very important to have rules and follow them. we should definitely regulate the method and technique of extraction of shale gas with proper legislation. this is an opportunity to achieve growth and to be more competitive with the rest of the world. it is a big step that we need to take, taking into account all the environmental risks.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on industrial, energy and other aspects of shale gas and shale oil. i believe that decision-makers should have accurate, up-to-date and comprehensive scientific data at their disposal to enable them to make informed choices in this area. europe's potential for the extraction and use of shale gas and shale oil resources must be assessed and inventoried without compromising the availability and quality of water resources. we believe that no exploration or exploitation of shale gas should take place unless there are guarantees that there are no risks to the environment and to the surrounding communities. i voted against paragraphs 15 and 27, which argued that shale gas contributes to the eu's target of reducing greenhouse gas emissions by 80-95% by 2050. at present, there are no conclusive studies in this direction. we call on member states to establish a robust regulatory regime and to provide the necessary administrative and monitoring resources for the development of shale gas activities. it is recalled that, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, each member state has the right to adopt decisions on the exploitation of oil and shale gas.
in writing. − the commission's intensive work to encourage citizens' active participation in the decision-making process within the european union is welcome, and the increase in the number of petitions filed in 2011 by almost 20% compared to 2010 shows that citizens are interested in directly contributing to important decisions at the level of the eu institutions. i am concerned, however, that about 30% of petitions have been declared inadmissible, which indicates that people are not yet sufficiently well informed to strictly comply with all eligibility requirements, and this can only be remedied by intensive campaigns of correct and complete education and information in the territory. on the other hand, as regards the fields of application, it is worth noting the significant increase in the number of petitions submitted on environmental issues, which shows an intensification of citizens' concern in this regard, but at the same time, signals the existence of serious problems in the management of projects that cause damage to the environment.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the activities of the committee on petitions in 2011. the committee on petitions has an obligation to constantly review and strengthen its role, especially in relation to the development of democratic principles, such as increased citizen participation in the eu decision-making process and enhanced transparency and accountability. in the course of its normal work, the committee works closely with the member states, the commission, the european ombudsman and other bodies to ensure that the spirit and the letter of union law are fully respected. i would point out the increasing number of petitions and other requests from citizens seeking legal and financial redress on matters outside the area of competence conferred on the eu, such as requests for the revision of the method of calculating national pensions and the annulment of judgments handed down by national courts, proposals to change the borders of europe, etc. we welcome the parliament's decision to develop a more practical and visible petition portal on its website, which will facilitate citizens' access to the petition process, provide them with information and allow them to present petitions in a more user-friendly environment that allows for the electronic signing of petitions.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, we very much regret that the conciliation committee which was convened after the european parliament’s last plenary session in october 2012 was not able to reach agreement on a joint text on the 2013 budget within the 21-day period foreseen by the treaty. the cyprus presidency did its utmost to achieve a positive outcome within the given timeframe. we worked hard to try to reconcile positions right up to the last few hours. but in the end we had to accept that the views of our two institutions remained far apart, and that it was therefore unfortunately not possible to reach an agreement. the council believes that it showed considerable openness throughout the negotiations, and in particular during the last few days of the conciliation period. it was able to make some progress, and specifically was able to approve one of the key elements of the negotiation package – the draft amending budget no 5 for 2012 related to the mobilisation of eur 670 million from the eu solidarity fund in support of italy – without any modifications to the commission’s proposal. despite this, we were not able to find the necessary flexibility in each of our institutions needed to make further progress on the 2013 budget. the mandate given to the conciliation committee was to find an agreement on the 2013 budget. however, it proved impossible to find a way forward on this issue without having addressed first the issue of the draft amending budget no 6 for 2012, which seeks eur 9 billion in additional payment appropriations for this year. ms gardiazábal rubial is right that erasmus and globalisation are part of draft amending budget no 6 and we understand and appreciate the sense of urgency. the council was and is ready to discuss all elements of the budgetary package and is committed to honouring our payment obligations, but we continue to take the view that they cannot be dealt with in isolation from each other if we are to find a balanced outcome which will meet the concerns of all parties. this was in fact the hiatus between our respective positions. for us, there is an inescapable link between draft amending budget no 6 for 2012 and the 2013 budget, since both of them aim at ensuring the continuity of the same european union programmes and actions, and both of them have to be financed from the same contributions from the member states. of course, having said that, it has to be very clear that we fully honour and respect the rights and prerogatives of parliament and the essence and the nature of the budgetary procedure (i.e., colegislation, codecision); there is even an edge in your favour under some specific circumstances. we now have only a few weeks left until the end of this year. we now of course await, as was said, a new draft budget from the commission which will need to take due account of the progress we have made to date in reconciling the different positions of our two institutions. clearly, i would have preferred to have been in a different situation to that which we find ourselves in today. but i remain hopeful that we can still reach a positive outcome in the short time that is left to us. the cyprus presidency will do its utmost to make rapid progress on the basis of the new draft budget. we count on parliament’s willingness to engage in a constructive dialogue so that we can have an eu budget in place from the beginning of the year. i am convinced that our collective credibility would be at stake if we failed to deliver this time round. it would simply not be understood if we were unable to reach agreement given what is at stake. but i am convinced that we can overcome the difficulties and reach a compromise. the cyprus presidency – and i personally – am committed to delivering a successful outcome.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to inform parliament that unfortunately mr lewandowski has been called to brussels for urgent preparations of the mff. you will understand why it is quite a busy time for him so that is why i would like on his behalf and that of the commission to echo what the president said in his introductory remark and welcome the approval of amending budget no 5 which will allow the payment of much awaited support to the people and authorities of emilia-romagna. i think that is just one example of what an eu money can actually do and why it matters. while the commission regrets it was not possible to reach agreement on the 2013 budget within the conciliation period foreseen in the treaty, we are convinced that we can still find a solution by the end of this year and in the next days the commission will present a new draft budget, as foreseen in article 314 of the treaty. although there are differences in the positions of parliament and the council, the conciliation committee already made some progress in identifying possible elements of compromise on the 2013 budget. the commission is taking these into account in preparing its new draft budget. in this way, the commission hopes to maximise the chances for council and parliament to reach agreement on the 2013 budget before the end of the year and thus avoid recourse to provisional twelfths. the level of payments is a key outstanding issue. during the conciliation, one real sticking point related to the shortage of payment appropriations in the budget and the additional payment appropriations requested by the commission for the year 2012. we are all aware of the economic difficulties facing europe and of the austerity measures prevailing across member states. however, it is the union’s duty to meet its legal obligations resulting from commitments made in the current and previous budgets. draft amending budget no 6 is still on the table and there is general recognition that bills have to be paid, and i say to mrs andreasen: real bills, real commitments, not estimates; it is also about the credibility of what we are doing here. a reasonable solution on meeting the payment needs in 2012 must be found now if the eu is to keep its credibility vis-à-vis national and regional authorities who have advanced the funds in the areas of cohesion and rural development, and also towards smes, researchers and, as has been mentioned already, students who are awaiting payments under programmes such as erasmus and the research framework programme. the commission considers that an adequate and realistic level of payments is necessary to keep supporting investments on growth and job-enhancing measures, which are priorities shared by all institutions. let me just return to the 2013 budget and what comes next. the commission will do its utmost to present a new draft budget that can be a sound basis for an agreement by parliament and council, and will continue to act as an honest broker to facilitate a swift adoption of the 2013 budget. we have already faced a similar situation back in 2010, with the first budget under the new lisbon treaty rules. at that time, after the failure of the conciliation committee, all institutions worked together in a very constructive and intense manner, which allowed for the adoption of the 2011 budget in due time. let me just finish, mr president, by mentioning some of the consequences of not achieving this, because we believe that the consequences should not be underestimated. just a few examples: implementation of key eu programmes and actions will be delayed with immediate effects on beneficiaries. that would include, among others, delayed reimbursements for expenditure on direct aid for agriculture because between 75% and 80% of the appropriations for direct aids are required for reimbursements in january and february 2013 next year. it would be impossible to mobilise any of the special instruments like the eu solidarity fund, the globalisation adjustment fund, or the emergency aid reserve. and just a final example: some of the eu regulatory agencies which are in start-up phase and are to take on new tasks would face considerable difficulties in fulfilling their role – this would be the case for example with the large-scale it systems agency in the area of home affairs, which will become operational in the next few days. i know that both parliament and the cyprus presidency are aware of these risks and that both are willing to cooperate intensively in the next two weeks to pave the way for a sound agreement before the end of the year. i express my sincere hope for a solution, and trust that, based on common efforts, we will be able to meet in this house in december to endorse an agreed budget for 2013 which reflects shared priorities, can contribute to creating the conditions for economic growth, and shows the union’s ability to act, which is the best signal we can send to eu citizens in these difficult times.
it is regrettable that the negotiations between parliament and the council on the 2013 budget did not result in an agreement. the differences between the positions of the two institutions were too great to allow a compromise to be reached. a solution must be found for the budget deficit in payments for 2012. otherwise we risk jeopardising the implementation of union policies next year. i too support the idea that payments already made to states under approved projects such as the erasmus programme should be reimbursed. in addition, there are other programmes and policies that will be affected in the event of a budgetary default for 2012. they include: rural development, the social fund, the cohesion fund, and the seventh framework programme for research and development.
on behalf of the epp group. i would like to start by congratulating mrs koppa on the quality of her report. i would also like to point out that the report comes at a very opportune time: it is two decades since the copenhagen council set the criteria for the enlargement process. on the other hand, there is the context of the economic crisis that we are all going through. that is why, i say, it is good to recognise the benefits of the enlargement process of the union for both the citizens of the candidate and potential candidate countries and the european citizens. as i pointed out in one of the amendments accepted in the resolution, the enlargement process has a significant impact not only on the candidate countries but also on the union as a whole. it is, in fact, an opportunity: an opportunity to better define the identity, objectives and policies of the union. it's also an opportunity to better communicate all of this to the citizens. as the parliament's permanent rapporteur on iceland's accession, i must however regret that reflection on the enlargement process is focused almost exclusively on the western balkans experience and less on the other candidate or potential candidate countries. i'm just coming back, as is commissioner füle, from a meeting with our colleagues in iceland. to a small extent, what is written in this report tells them something. i would also like to express my strong disagreement with paragraph 38, which introduces the idea of a new category, namely associated members of the union. i believe that the enlargement policy reflects the open nature of the european project. this project is designed to bring all european countries together in an ever closer union. in conclusion, we must also give the prospect of enlargement to countries like moldova, which are obviously european in geographical terms, provided, of course, that they carry out the necessary reforms to position themselves on the map of europe and in political terms.
more and more people are saying that the european union has grown tired of enlargement and that in fact in recent years things have been dancing rather than moving forward. there are several files in progress that prove that things are getting closer to that statement. without a doubt, i think it's one of the european processes that has succeeded. 2005 and 2007 are two successful trials. i wonder what the current crisis in the european union would have looked like without this enlargement, how the union would have responded to global challenges. but we cannot talk about the political decision on enlargement using concepts which refer to the notion of an associated member of the union. it is, in fact, a departure from the spirit of the constitutive treaties. i think we should all know that there can be no cohesion and there can be no union if the member states are not equal, if the citizens are not equal. we cannot talk about precarious legal instruments like this... (the president interrupts)
the western balkans are the main area of the european union's enlargement policy, and the report rightly draws attention to the importance of protecting minorities. given the ethnic context and recent history of the region, the importance of the issue is that the eu's current, virtually non-existent, minority protection regulation is insufficient to address the problems. not only does the relationship between ethnic groups affect stability within states, but also the relationship between individual states, the future member states. i therefore believe that the enlargement process should make the eu aware of the need for a minority protection regime within european law in order to settle disputes on the basis of the same rules that apply to everyone. the copenhagen criteria must also be respected by the member states, as they are currently in line with the countries awaiting accession... (the president took the floor)
i am convinced that, despite the economic challenges facing the european union at the moment, the enlargement policy continues to be a guarantee of security on our continent. the enlargement process is also essential for the western balkan countries. in this connection, i would like to draw attention to two aspects: 1. i express the hope that serbia's new candidate status in relation to the european union will be a stimulus for the internal reform process and for the fulfilment of all the accession criteria, including as regards the situation of the romanian minority throughout serbia. 2.the important progress of the republic of moldova in the negotiation of the eu-republic of moldova association agreement and the comprehensive free trade agreement should be highlighted, elements which i am convinced will ensure a clear european perspective for moldovan citizens in the future... (the president interrupts the speaker)
the enlargement package, launched in october, naturally focuses on the rule of law in accession negotiations. the eu's external relations policy should be based on the principles of the rule of law, democracy and human rights. i cannot say that i do not support the commission's approach, but i do think that enlargement policy is focusing too much on the western balkans. i think the situation in the republic of moldova is relevant to this discussion. although the country has made progress, implementing substantial reforms to move closer to the union, it has so far not been offered any prospect of membership. finally, i would like to call on the commission and the council to speed up the conclusion of the association agreement and the visa liberalisation plan with the republic of moldova.
in writing. the process of accession to the european union represents, for candidate and potential candidate countries, a path towards strengthening the rule of law, respect for fundamental values and adopting a social model of inclusion and social protection. the european union has remained attractive not only because of its economic model but also because of its social model. the union cannot embark on a course of ruthless austerity without at the same time giving up a significant part of its identity. that is why i am advocating both the abandonment of the policy of drastic cuts and the promotion of positive social transformation in the future eu member states. the commission must defend and promote the european social model, the symbol of the union and the driving force behind european aspirations.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, honourable members, i am right now in a position to confirm that a ceasefire has been agreed. it was announced by the foreign minister of egypt, mohamed amr, and the secretary of state of the united states, hilary clinton, at a presss conference just a few minutes ago. the ceasefire will start at 19.00 hours gmt. honourable members, by holding a debate on developments in gaza the european parliament has shown once again its overriding concern for the civilian population in the region and its constant support for lasting pace in the middle east. with 130 people killed in gaza and five in israel up to last night, many of them women and children, and more deaths in gaza today, we owe it to the ordinary people caught up in this conflict to make every effort to consolidate the ceasefire reached and find an enduring solution which addresses gaza’s isolation. journalists have also been among the casualties and i repeat my call to israel to ensure the protection of civilians at all times. i also deplore the summary executions of seven palestinians in the gaza strip over the last two days by armed groups there. this represents the grossest violation of human rights. israeli-palestinian reconciliation remains a key element for any durable solution. it is important to bear in mind that the situation in gaza has also led to an increase in tensions in the west bank, with two deaths confirmed after the use of live israeli ammunition in the west bank protests on 18 and 19 november. palestinian unity is an important element for a viable palestinian state and essential for ensuring lasting peace with israel. the european union has consistently called for a palestinian reconciliation under the authority of president abbas and has commended egypt’s earlier efforts to bring this about since the signing of the reconciliation agreement in may 2011. a negotiated two-state solution which we have always called for continues to be the only viable option open to both israel and the palestinian people. escalations of violence of the type we have witnessed these last few days are a tragic distraction from this hard-nosed reality.
in writing. i want to start by welcoming the achievement of a ceasefire between hamas and israel, with egyptian mediation. but there are more elements that should not be forgotten. for years, israel has been dealing with rocket fire from gaza. 1,100 rockets have been fired at israel since november 10 and over 900 since the start of operation pillar of defense. a new attack has taken place in tel aviv, despite intense diplomatic efforts. few governments would tolerate the prolongation of such a situation characterized by the deliberate targeting of civilians. secondly, we are faced here with an asymmetrical situation, in which the israeli army is obliged to respect the rules applicable to armed conflict, while its opponents - the armed forces of the hamas group - are not obliged to do so at all. europe has, unfortunately, been absent again from the resolution of the conflict. if we want a lasting solution, it is time for europe's voice to be heard. the recurrent issue of rockets fired from the gaza strip must be resolved from this perspective, and compliance with the rules of international humanitarian law remains a key element in ensuring peace in the region. finally, the reference in paragraph 5 of our joint resolution to the acceptance of palestine as a non-member observer of the un does not seem appropriate in this context.
rapporteur. − mr president, europe has never been so prosperous, so secure, nor so free. words written in the european security strategy of 2003 are questionable today, confronted with increasingly complex risks and threats moving closer and closer to home. to those, we answer with a rush to slash our defence budgets, making life miserable for the defence planners, be they from nato or the eu. moreover, nato, responsible for the security of 21 of the 27 eu member states, is confronted with the american reorientation towards asia, forcing europe to manage the consequences through increasing their contribution to nato and strengthening the eu security and defence dimension. this report is a step in that latter direction. to that effect, under the existing legal reality, the report does not ask for new instruments or new powers for the eu but argues for a more coherent and efficient interaction of the existing instruments, pointing to what the union should do in case either one or both clauses are invoked, apart from and until the national mechanisms are activated. this way, the eu mechanisms do not substitute for the national ones. they only support and amend them, helping the member states to deal successfully with a situation invoking the clauses. in other words, the report is about solidarity. any member of the eu, including those not in nato, is entitled to respect from their organisation because solidarity is indispensable to the cohesion of the eu, acting as a deterrent of aggression too; particularly at a time when, due to the current crisis, centrifugal forces are getting stronger. although in practice the two clauses, mutual defence and solidarity, could be interconnected, the report takes them separately for reasons of clarity. what the report names the mutual defence clause – because in the treaty on european union it is nameless – although it deals with measures in case of external armed aggression is a provision imported from the treaty of brussels establishing the western european union, which after lisbon has been embedded into the eu’s legal basis. on the other hand, the solidarity clause is an addition following the multiplication of natural and man-made disasters both within and outside the eu. since article 42(7) states that the eu nato members rely for their security on the north atlantic treaty, the report underlines the importance of the relationship between the eu and nato which should be seen as cooperative and not competitive, being instead organisations complementary to one another. to that effect, the report advocates the cohesion of the eu’s pooling and sharing and nato’s smart defence initiatives; the creation in time of an eu headquarters; and defining today’s risks and threats in a modern way, adapted to reality. in turn, the solidarity clause is meant to address the situations where the national capacities of a state to deal with a certain disaster are overwhelmed, to maintain a balance between preparedness and flexibility and to avoid the phenomenon of free riding when one prefers to rely more on others than on oneself. the report, arguing for the best use of such instruments like the civil protection mechanism, the internal security strategy and the capacities of the external action service, supports the ongoing review of the emergency and crisis coordination arrangement and the development of an integrated situational awareness. in conclusion, the report asks the high representative to propose practical arrangements and guidelines for ensuring a rapid and coherent response in the event of a member state invoking the mutual defence clause. we also call on the commission and the high representative before the end of 2012 to make the joint proposal for a council decision, defining the arrangements for the implementation of the solidarity clause, clarifying in particular the roles and competences of different actors.
in congratulating the four rapporteurs, i cannot but express my regret, because each report deserves a debate. each report adds value to our common security and defence policy. i will speak of principle, saying that the treaty of lisbon gives this common policy a chance, legally speaking. we must no longer doubt this opportunity, but we must doubt our ability to implement it, because it is not possible, even though a few years have passed since we came under the treaty and since we are talking about more europe or a better governed europe, not to give operationality to the clauses to which we have committed ourselves. this weakens the union's position as a relevant actor in both foreign policy and global security. if we want more union, more europe, we must give a major chance to the common security and defence policy, not to judge things by sector, as has unfortunately happened today.
mr president, i am pleased that my amendment on considering the need for the eu to develop a ‘white hat’ strategy was adopted by the committee responsible. with cyber criminals getting better at breaking into protected networks, i strongly believe that the only real way to win the battle is to have people with similar knowledge and expertise fighting against them. i would remind you of some statistics: more than one million people become victims of cyber crime every day, and the cost of cyber crime, as estimated by the commission, could reach a total of usd 388 billion worldwide. therefore, as i have stated in all my speeches, i believe ‘white hat’ hackers need to be hired and trained for future cyber warfare.
i'd like to refer to mr. kelam's report. the communication and information technology infrastructure is part of the european critical infrastructure. many cyber incidents occur due to the lack of resilience and robustness of private and public network infrastructure, weakly secured databases and other critical information infrastructure failures. we call on member states to develop national cybersecurity and defence strategies, train engineers to protect information systems and invest in cybersecurity research and innovation. enisa shall support member states through the exchange of best practices in the field of cybersecurity and in the development, implementation and maintenance of national cybersecurity strategies. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. we ask the council and the commission to be flexible in this respect, otherwise enisa's current mandate expires in september 2013.
the lisbon treaty gave the union new instruments for external action, which strengthened its international profile. within the framework of security and defence policy, it is possible to organise civil or military missions in sensitive areas. although there have been missions in areas such as chad, the congo, somalia, the union has not been sufficiently involved in the frozen conflicts on its borders. the conflict in transnistria, which has lasted for more than 20 years, is the best example. although there were high expectations from the new leadership in tiraspol, they were dashed after the first rounds of negotiations, and the political commitment to make progress in resolving the conflict proved to be insincere. that is why i believe that the union, through the high representative, should be more involved in resolving the conflict by replacing the military peacekeeping mission with a civilian one.
rapporteur. − mr president, i would like to thank all colleagues who participated in this debate for their interest and opinions, including those who were pessimistic, suspicious, or even grossly exaggerating. those opinions are valuable, not only to me and my colleagues – andrew duff, from the committee on constitutional affairs (afco), and simon busuttil, author of the opinion of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs (libe) – but also to the commission and the council who prepare to discuss these matters in more detail. in view of the discussion, i would like to mention one more aspect which has not been touched upon in the report, namely that we should address not only the way we get into a situation triggered by the activation of the two clauses, but also, apart from staying in and being constant in our engagement, when and how we get out of it. things should be very clear for the exit strategy, as they should be very clear for the strategy for going in. finally, i would like to thank publicly all the shadow rapporteurs, the european commission, the european external action service, the council, as well as nato who have responded in kind to the open and transparent way this report has been prepared.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, first of all, as shadow rapporteur, i want to congratulate ms jaakonsaari on this report. kazakhstan is certainly a big, important country in a strategically vital region for the eu. sometimes we choose to work with poor and small developing countries with democratic problems and human rights problems, but countries in central asia, and especially this country, are in a different position. do not forget that they are former soviet republics. do not forget that they belong to a different culture. in order to alleviate the situation and to export our standards we must cooperate. if we want to export our values, the key word with a country like this is cooperation. we are asking the impossible if we want them to share these values automatically. we must certainly criticise; we certainly do not agree with the human rights violations; we are continually calling for the release of political prisoners; but in order to achieve this and to alleviate the human rights situation, we must work together. my position, and that of my group, is that a pca with kazakhstan is needed. i believe that it is necessary to work together in the interests of the region through trade, political dialogue and cooperation. i hope we will be able to change and perhaps improve the democratic situation in this country, but if we do not do anything and if we only offer criticism, we are taking a risk that our voice will not be heard. can you imagine the voice of russia or china being more powerful in kazakhstan when it comes to changing the human rights situation? as i have already pointed out, the key issue for relations with such countries is cooperation.
kazakhstan is an important partner of the european union in central asia and a factor of stability in the region. the conclusion of an enhanced cooperation and partnership agreement would be the next step in the relationship between the two parties. kazakhstan could become one of the main alternative sources of energy supply to the union. the commission has also concluded that the aid is compatible with the internal market. in the context of rising energy prices, we need to diversify our sources to prevent energy crises such as those of 2006 and 2009. a similar role is played by the nabucco and agri projects, which aim to strengthen the union's energy security, and kazakhstan could be involved in efforts to develop a trans-caspian energy supply route to europe. but such projects need the full political support of the member states.
member of the commission. − mr president, the commission presented the reform proposal for the eu data protection regime in january for two reasons: first, to ensure a high level of data protection for individuals as provided for in the treaties and second, to offer european businesses a future-proof and technologically neutral data protection regime. we must now make rapid progress to reach agreement on the package on the table. in parliament the progress has been particularly noticeable in the different working documents and draft reports prepared by the rapporteurs. for the commission, progress means that the regulation and the directive continue to be negotiated as a package. the freedom and security of our european citizens are two sides of the same coin. these are two policy objectives that should be reached with the adoption of the proposals to reform the european union rules on data protection. as regards the personal data processed in the context of police and judicial cooperation, we currently have a multitude of rules and different legal instruments. the entry into force of the lisbon treaty allows the establishment of a comprehensive data protection framework. we can ensure a high level of protection for individuals’ data whilst respecting the specific nature of the field of police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. in particular, the revised eu data protection framework can now cover both cross-border and domestic processing of personal data. this would reduce differences between the legislation in member states. the status quo may not always facilitate the smooth exchange of information between member states. the rules set by the pre-lisbon framework decision that the proposed directive aims to replace are limited to cross-border processing. in practice, police and law enforcement authorities may not have always distinguished between cross-border and domestic processing. it is not always feasible to draw this distinction in the daily work of a policeman or of a court. for instance, a single national database used in the law enforcement field may contain personal data that were both collected nationally and received from another member state. it would be inefficient to create two separate databases in such situations; it would also be inefficient to apply two different sets of data protection rules within a single database. the proposed directive aims to cover both domestic and cross-border processing. this has been a longstanding request from parliament. the proposed directive also contains the same protection principles as those enshrined in the regulation. this also echoes parliament’s request to extend the application of the general data protection rules to the areas of police and judicial cooperation. key elements enshrined in the draft regulation are also introduced in the proposed directive, such as: data protection by design and by default; the appointment of data protection officers; the obligation to notify personal data breaches; and the extension of the powers of the commission to adopt adequacy decisions for international transfers to third countries. these novelties emphasise the importance of robust protection rules in instruments allowing for data exchange. let us never lose sight of the fact that the protection of personal data is a right enshrined in the union’s treaties and in the charter of fundamental rights. this is why the new data protection rules will have to be taken into account in sectoral instruments, in particular in the area of the former third pillar. once a directive has entered into force the commission, within three years, will have to review and possibly amend other acts adopted by the european union which regulate the processing of personal data by law enforcement authorities.
question for the blue card. i would like to ask mr kelly whether in the roadmap he is expecting from the council he will ask for the following point to be included: how the new package will affect international agreements such as swift or the passenger name record. i think it is important to know how current and future international agreements of this kind will be aligned with the new data protection package.
in writing. the european union has a duty to support small-scale and artisanal fishing, especially since in some regions these activities are the only source of income for local people. under these circumstances, these two types of fisheries should receive increased attention under the new european maritime and fisheries fund, as around 80% of fishing activities in the union are carried out by vessels of less than 15 metres in length. for romania, for example, this is 100% and hundreds of families live from this work. i would draw attention to the danger of transferable fishing concessions, which would seriously disadvantage these small fishermen to the benefit of the more competitive ones, and i believe that parliament must take a firm stand against this system.
in writing. for 2011, 30 agencies, representing a total budget of more than 1.3 billion euro, will have their accounts reviewed. this is 6 more than for 2010. last year, the court delivered no comments for most of the agencies. i'm glad to see that this year this is no longer the case: the court took its responsibilities more seriously. this will help the discharge authority to fulfil its duties although our work goes far beyond stamping the court's reports. i am concerned that procurement procedure rules are not always respected. this led to a qualified opinion on the ecdc's accounts due to irregularities over a 9 million euro framework contract. 22 agencies still need to improve transparency of their recruitment procedures. in general the newly-created agencies face the greatest challenges, especially concerning budgetary and financial management. i encourage them to get-up-to-speed quickly. i commend that the conclusions of the court's special report on conflict of interest have been integrated in the reports on ema, efsa, easa and echa. i note that one comment in the eea report relates to the issue. the work started on conflict of interest during the 2010 discharge will continue and progress will be monitored.
member of the commission. − madam president, let me start by excusing commissioner de gucht, who is at this moment negotiating with his canadian counterparts on the free trade agreement with canada. the commission is very grateful to mr leichtfried, the rapporteur, to chairman moreira, and to the other honourable members who worked on this report, and for the overall support for the commission’s proposal. the european parliament has proposed many amendments, most of which we can accept. in particular, the commission can accept the change to the period of time of the delegation, from unlimited to a five-year period with tacit renewal. however, certain amendments are not acceptable to us. some of them deviate from the common understanding on delegated acts that the three institutions have committed themselves to respecting. this concerns, for example, amendments which impose specific obligations on the commission in the preparation of delegated acts. other amendments prolong the period for objection to a delegated act. we cannot accept this, unless the extension of such a period is justified by the specificities of the regulation concerned. as for those amendments on which we have different positions, the commission is confident that we will be able to have constructive discussions in the trialogue, with a view to finding an acceptable solution. let me conclude by registering the commission’s appreciation of the work done on this issue. we look forward to working with parliament to bring it to a conclusion by reaching an agreement in the trialogue.
i welcome the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending ten regulations on the common commercial policy in accordance with the provisions of the treaty of lisbon. i would like to congratulate my colleague, mr jörg leichtfried, on the work he has done in producing this technical report, which is so important for the smooth functioning of the interinstitutional system. it is well known that, in the european institutional sphere, the european parliament and the council have the responsibility for adopting legislation. however, the treaty of lisbon introduces delegated acts for the first time in european law, through article 290. parliament and the council can thus delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts, by delegating part of their respective powers, in order to facilitate the adoption of more effective decisions. the two co-legislators, on the other hand, retain the right to revoke the delegation at any time or to object within a certain time-limit. in this context, i share the rapporteur's view on the possibility of ensuring access for parliament's experts to expert meetings organised by the commission, with a view to preparing and implementing delegated acts in respect of regulations relating to the common commercial policy. at the same time, i agree to limit the delegation of powers to the commission to a period of five years. i think that this way parliament maintains greater control over the decisions of the european executive.
in a relatively short time, the economies of the european union and china have reached an impressive level of interdependence. the trade flow between the two partners currently amounts to around one billion euros a day, and the economic partnership between the european union and china is the second most significant globally. although beijing joined the wto in 2001, its trade relations with the eu continue to be often marked by the imposition of barriers to the movement of goods and services. these include difficult market access for economic operators, restrictions on exports of raw materials, the use of subsidies and dumping. the commission, as the commissioner said, has recently launched, following complaints from european companies, two investigations into the sale of chinese solar panels at artificially low prices. in fact, it is estimated that these products are sold at prices that are up to 80% below their cost of production. the european union benefits considerably from trade relations with china, but the type of behaviour mentioned above affects the ability of european companies to remain competitive in a context where the european union needs to promote its industries and create jobs. i believe that relations between the european union and china need to be strengthened, but they must be based on reciprocity and respect for trade rules. that is why i ask you, commissioner, in addition to the urgent analysis you must make, as other colleagues have asked, to take measures to protect european workers and businesses, in effect by developing an industrial strategy, as my predecessor has said.
mr president, i share the concerns of my colleagues from the north. in the baltic sea region fish stocks resources are over-exploited. this could lead to salmon disappearing from the region and put at risk the activity of fishermen. therefore i support the creation of a multinational plan for the management of the fisheries on the salmon stocks in the baltic sea. the commission should introduce more and stricter controls on recreational fishing and evaluate its real impact on the level of baltic salmon.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report. it will allow the commission to adopt crucial elements of non-legislative acts. overall the proposal aims at placing ten regulations under the legal framework of the lisbon treaty. this will enhance common commercial policy. further economic growth depends on empowering the commission to adopt non-legislative acts on common commercial policy. strengthening common commercial policy will enhance economic growth, as the commission is responsible for making all member states follow these regulations.
i voted in favour of the report because the common commercial policy has enabled union producers and consumers to enjoy significant benefits. therefore, in order to ensure that it remains effective, the power to amend certain non-essential elements of certain regulations should be delegated to the commission by means of delegated acts. i support the rapporteur's view that parliament or the council can at any time oppose delegated acts that touch on important aspects of legislation. however, in order to keep pace with technological developments and changes in the field, the procedure for delegated acts is the best tool. however, it must be carried out in consultation with the actors involved. i also believe that the present proposal is a good solution to avoid diminishing the union's global competitiveness. in the context of the economic crisis, the common commercial policy must be a source of prosperity for the union and its citizens.
mr president, fish stocks are limited resources. in this respect the technical conservation measures for fishery resources are among the key elements of an approach to fisheries management and we need to regionalise the approach. i take note of the commission’s proposal extending the rules on technical measures for another transitional period, but additional changes are necessary to complete the update. for instance, there is a need to readjust areas where cod, haddock and whiting fishing is banned. however, i regret that the commission’s proposal is again on transitional technical measures. the fishermen need clear legal clarity and cannot continue to base their activities on temporary measures. i call on the commission to submit a permanent solution on technical measures as soon as possible.
mr president, i support parliament’s legislative resolution on the proposal to amend council regulation (ec) no 1185/2003. the purpose of the amending regulation brought forward by the council is to ban, without exception, the practice of removing shark fins from captured sharks aboard fishing vessels. the practice of finning, whereby fishermen capture sharks, cut off their fins and dump the rest of the animal into the ocean, cannot be accepted. it is cruel and barbaric and does not make for a balanced environment. it must be banned immediately, everywhere.
mr president, international child abduction is a morally reprehensible act that can cause severe psychological damage to children and parents alike. the hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction gives the legal means to fight this transborder phenomenon. i am aware that the council is contesting the legal basis on which the union would approve accession to this convention for eight new members. this is the reason why my colleagues’ action is so timely. the parliament cannot allow any delays that might prevent future misconduct. i ask the commission, along with my colleagues, to clarify in the shortest possible time the union’s exclusive competence in this matter. we must allow these eight new members to accede to the convention and call on the appropriate institutions to speed up their cooperation. every minute and every hour counts in the fight against this illegal practice. we should remember that the children of this world count on us for their protection.
i could not vote for this resolution because romania has not reached its quota of emission units and still has a large number of green certificates available. since these certificates could not be traded, my country is now in danger of losing a lot of money. so i think we need to find a way to make sure that the states that have fewer units available can use them after 2012. but this must be done in a responsible manner and in a way that maintains an ambitious level of environmental protection. through the objectives romania has undertaken in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, my country has demonstrated its commitment to combating climate change. however, by prohibiting the transfer of emission allowances after 2012, i believe that it would discriminate against my country and other countries in a similar situation.
i voted in favour of this resolution because i support the revision of the international telecommunications regulations which will take place at the conference. it aims to facilitate the international interconnection of information and communication services. at the same time, the regulation ensures the efficiency and public utility of these services. the free flow of information must be ensured and fair access to it promoted for all. i believe that the text of the regulation needs to be updated to reflect the changes in information and telecommunications technology as closely as possible. the conference is a good opportunity to increase cooperation between the countries. it can thus help countries to reach new levels of economic and social development and thus better meet the challenges of a rapidly changing environment.
i voted in favour of this report, especially since the text on the introduction of a new category of union members has been deleted, because i consider it to be a defining element in the continuation of the european union's enlargement policies. i hope that this report, which embraces a relatively optimistic view of the continuation of enlargement, will be one of the reports that will continue one of the few successful policies of the european union, and i believe that the criteria that were originally promoted to accept enlargement - and i am referring to the copenhagen criteria - are still the defining ones. i appreciated the way the rapporteur raised the issue of the capacity of new countries to join to meet the union's requirements and not to block internal mechanisms.
mr president, enlargement policies and criteria must be tailored to the needs of the candidate and potential candidate countries, and also to the needs of their citizens, as well as responding to the criteria and principles of the union. therefore, it is important to pay greater attention to the reform of the judiciary and the fight against corruption and fraud at an early stage. this is why i welcome the commission’s decision to open chapters 23 and 24 early on in the accession process and to work on the basis of concrete, detailed benchmarks. also, a lesson learned is that enforcement is the key to fulfilling these conditions. to remain credible, the accession process must be merit-based, tailored, benchmark-driven and transparent. the high-level accession dialogue with macedonia is a good initiative, but this does not and should not replace the accession process. we are to judge macedonia on its merits; the country surely deserves to start the accession negotiations now.
i abstained because, while i support the middle east peace process, i do not believe it can continue as long as hamas chooses violence over negotiation, and gaining non-un observer status would legitimize hamas' actions. first, i believe it is israel's right to defend its territory and its citizens from any attack. in my opinion, hamas has been wrong to bomb civilian areas and kill innocent people. the tel aviv bombing is the best example of hamas' terrorist intentions. i'm also concerned about the risks facing the romanian community in israel. in order for the situation to not deteriorate further, hamas must stop its military aggression and abide by the ceasefire agreement issued yesterday.
mr president, since 2003 the eu has launched 19 civilian missions and seven military operations. we have the potential to bring positive changes in troubled regions. in the western balkans our engagement contributed to peace and security. today’s western balkans still face serious challenges related to the rule of law, the protection of minorities and the fight against organised crime and corruption. the eu must be able to respond to these challenges and to the geopolitical changes taking place on the international scene. this is why we must reassess our security strategy, be more autonomous and show greater unity. more independence does not mean that existing alliances will be put aside. on the contrary, strong transatlantic relations will be further reinforced. the time has come for an ambitious common security and defence policy with the appropriate means.
i wanted to speak on this report, which i voted for and supported, because i consider it to be an important report in the context of the common security and defence policy. it is the first report in which the two clauses introduced by the lisbon treaty, that of mutual defence and that of solidarity, are conceptualised and analysed, which proves that, on the basis of this treaty, the capacity to have a common defence and security policy exists, only that there is not yet a clear will to put it into practice. as regards the mutual defence clause in article 32 of the treaty, the report welcomes - and we support - the establishment of a permanent operational headquarters of the european union, as this will give the union a greater capacity to react coherently to the application of this clause. as for the solidarity clause... (the president interrupts)
mr president, any eu member state can be stricken by a natural or man-made disaster, or even be a victim of aggression such as a terrorist attack. we must be able to react fast to such instances and provide support to a fellow member state. this is why member states and the european union must develop a policy for the prevention of and response to all major security threats identified. better safe than sorry. creating a voluntary pool of pre-committed civil protection assets would, for example, much improve eu readiness. another crucial issue is to find a proper balance that would allow for a quick response, involvement of all eu institutions, and enforcement of the principle of accountability for the decisions taken. accountability is vital.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the definition of a european identity requires the strengthening of the common defence policy. in the area of common defence, solidarity between member states is very important, but it must be supported by appropriate financing mechanisms. the mutual defence clause is an effective tool in the event of a member state being attacked, but there is currently no set of practical measures to ensure a coherent response if a state invokes the clause. in order to ensure effective implementation, the commission should be involved at technical and, above all, political level. while there are low risks of an attack against a member state, attention needs to be paid to new types of threats such as terrorism and cyber-attacks. i think that situations like this should be subject to the activation of the mutual defense clause.
i voted in favour of this report which i consider to be the first and most robust report dealing exclusively with cyber security, because all the other provisions and interventions on cyber crime cannot be the subject of this report. he's responding to a threat that is permanent, but unfortunately, little known, namely, the cyber attack. it is worth noting that only ten member states of the european union have adopted a national strategy to respond to these cyber attacks, which are becoming increasingly political, we have had situations in the member states, but which are highly efficient from the point of view of the aggressors and very costly from the point of view of those who are attacked. the report boldly proposes that the high representative take a position on the application of article 222 of the treaty.
mr president, in march 2011 the european parliament faced a cyber attack that targeted its computer network. a week before, the european commission was the victim of a similar attack. cyber threats and attacks against government, administration, military and international bodies are a rapidly growing menace. we must address them and protect our communication structures and infrastructures from any kind of intrusion. our first step is to update the european security strategy in order to identify how to pursue and prosecute individual, network-related and state-supported cyber attackers. other conditions, sine qua non, are the development of an eu cyber security strategy with a common definition of cyber security and defence, and the creation of a critical infrastructure warning information network at the european level. i would also like to say that cyber criminality is not limited to cyber attacks: vulnerable populations are also targeted by criminals acting from behind the computer. we must, therefore, also take steps in this direction.
i voted in favour of the report because the main threats to the member states are no longer the classic ones. cyberattacks are on the rise and pose a major threat to the security and stability of states. the union needs to develop a cybersecurity strategy to prevent such attacks. in my view, a joint working group should be set up, composed of the best it and military experts in the member states. they should work with nato and us experts to share their experience. for example, romania regularly organises working sessions with its american partners on combating cybercrime, and experts from my country are recognised worldwide for their value. so we have the human resource at our disposal, we just have to use it to our advantage.
i voted in favour of this report, although there are many things to be discussed in it, because, unfortunately, the energy security component is becoming an increasingly important component of our common security policy. i would like to stress two points, also highlighted in the report, which i consider relevant. this energy security component is very much in play when the union is threatened by natural disasters. it is more concerned with civil protection, but also with the military component, and i think that the points made in the report are appropriate in this respect. i would also like to highlight an existing code of good practice on the environmental component and its influence on safety, namely the recently initiated eda 'go green' project, which focuses on the energy efficiency component.
mr president, climate change and natural disasters have an impact on global security, peace and stability. they have a direct impact on the global economy and are also the source of political instability. lack of fresh water or food can force populations to migrate to other regions that are not always friendly. therefore, we – as the european union – should take the effects of natural disasters and climate change into consideration in our external action strategies, policies and instruments. however, do we need a special representative for climate security, or do we need a council working group on climate security, for this purpose? i do not think so. this would create, above all, additional bureaucracy. i believe that climate security can and must be addressed with existing european policies.
i voted in favour of the report because, until now, climate change and its effects have been seen only from the economic and environmental perspective, but they also affect our security. natural disasters must be taken into account when drawing up national or community security strategies. that is why i support studies on the impact of natural disasters and climate-related crises on international and european security. the union and its member states must have capacities to respond to natural disasters caused by climate change. it is also important to address the implications of such disasters in dialogue with major partners. but the union's leadership in this area should be strengthened by preventing them, and this can only be done through a responsible and sustainable environmental policy.
madam president, in 2011 kazakhstan’s scored only 2.7 on transparency international’s corruption perception index. for 2012, freedom house describes the kazakh judicial system as being dependent on the executive and with a lot of corruption. as proof of this, the zhanaozen trials were rampant with independent accusations of evidence fabrication, torture and intimidation. the progress in the negotiation of the new partnership and cooperation agreement must be linked to the progress of political reform. enforcing judicial independence and curbing corruption within the judiciary must be set as priorities. also, the control and management of penitentiaries should be returned to the ministry of justice, and political prisoners must be released. we need binding commitments from the kazakh authorities. i believe that eu financial aid must be conditional upon progress with clear benchmarks, binding deadlines and monitoring mechanisms.
i voted in favour of this report because the external dimension of fisheries policy is very complex and must take account of the interests of the union. in this context, we should encourage the sustainability of fisheries and the conservation of marine biodiversity. improvements are also needed in the governance of fisheries at international level, and coordination between external and cooperation policies is essential to achieve this. the union should aim to adopt harmonised and sustainable fisheries policies, and these should aim at improving cooperation with neighbouring countries. i also want to draw attention to the important role the union has to play in combating illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. consistency in union policies is needed to achieve development objectives.
i voted in favour of the resolution because i too believe that the elections to the european parliament should be more closely linked to the election of the president of the commission. the commission should be more democratic; its president should play an active role in the electoral campaign for the european elections. it will thus be able to set out its vision for the future of the union, and citizens will in fact be able to vote for the candidate of the parties for the presidency of the commission. but it will take time to choose the best option for the commission, and the advance of the elections by a month must be taken into account. the gender balance in the commission should also be given greater attention, but the criteria of competence remain a priority. the commission could thus become a true government of the european union, and parliament would have greater control over its work.
in writing. − the eu countries are among the world's largest exporters of salmon. fishing is also one of the most important activities carried out in the european union, both in terms of tradition and associated cultural heritage and in terms of current business practices. i am convinced that the exploitation of fish stocks must be carried out with due regard for the quality of the final product, without however interfering more than is necessary with the ecosystem in which these fish live. in this respect, the present report is an obvious step forward for the stability of this field of activity. the european union must demonstrate its commitment to both the need to maintain a high level of competitiveness and productivity in the fisheries sector and the imperative of preserving europe's ecosystems and biosphere. (parliament adopted the legislative resolution)
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it tackles a problem that has been known for a long time but for which no concrete solutions have been found so far. i welcome the commission's proposal for a multiannual plan and believe that it would lead to more effective management of the salmon fisheries in the baltic sea. the extension of the scope to include all forms of recreational fishing is welcome, taking into account that recreational fishing is increasingly being practised. a higher level of control of fisheries in the baltic countries is absolutely indispensable for a more efficient monitoring of all catches made. this will lead to increased transparency in the sector and contribute to environmental protection and sustainable fisheries development.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the baltic salmon stocks and the fisheries exploiting them. according to scientific advice, improper stock enrichment practices can have significant implications for the genetic diversity of baltic salmon stocks. there is also a risk that the high number of farmed fish dispersed annually in the baltic sea will affect the genetic integrity of wild salmon populations. i think that stock enrichment should be subject to stricter controls. in addition, the conditions governing the procurement of genetic material for the propagation and growth of salmon breeding stock, as well as the conditions applicable to stock enrichment procedures, should be laid down in the multiannual plan, in order to ensure that stock enrichment does not have adverse effects on genetic diversity. the commission should ensure that member states take the necessary administrative or criminal measures to combat illegal, unreported and unregulated fishing. i consider that the member states concerned should provide and publish reports containing data on the return of female salmon to their rivers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a regulation on the delegation of power to adopt certain measures relating to the common commercial policy. the proposal aims to adapt a number of regulations in the field of commercial policy to the new primary law provisions of the treaty of lisbon. the proposal aims to align the regulations with article 290, which introduces delegated acts into european law for the first time. article 290 allows the legislator to delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general scope supplementing or amending certain non-essential elements of a legislative act. the legislator still has the right to revoke the delegation at any time and then take a decision himself. in addition, any decision taken in the form of a delegated act may be subject to a veto by the legislator. it is therefore sufficient for either the council or parliament to oppose a draft delegated act proposed by the commission. the parliament's proposal limits the delegation of powers to the commission to a period of five years. the commission shall submit a report on the delegation of power not later than nine months before the end of the five-year period.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because the extension of the technical rules for a further transitional period is necessary given that a regionalised framework for technical measures has not yet been adopted in line with the common fisheries policy. i agree with the proposal on transitional technical measures, but i believe that the european parliament and the council must do everything possible to reach a political agreement on this complex cfp issue in good time. it is very important that european fishermen have a clear and explicit legal framework in their field of activity. i welcome the fact that the report proposes not only to extend the validity of the current technical measures but also to update the existing ones. i believe that with the adoption of this report and the subsequent adoption of a regionalised legal framework, a sustainable way of fishing will be ensured.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the conservation of pine fishery resources and technical measures to protect the seaweed nursery. a new framework for technical conservation measures is expected in the context of the ongoing reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp). the unlikely entry into force of this new framework before the end of 2012 justifies the extension of the application of these transitional technical measures. i stress the importance of continuing the conservation and proper management of marine biological resources. council regulation (ec) no 850/98 of 30 march 1998 should be updated by incorporating the transitional technical measures into its text. in order to ensure the continued conservation and proper management of marine biological resources in the black sea, it is necessary to establish the minimum landing size and the minimum mesh size for the cod fishery. an equivalent measure for the minimum landing size for hams should also be introduced in terms of fish per kilogram, in order to simplify the work on board vessels catching this species and to facilitate control measures ashore.
in writing. - i voted against this report because i believe that in some cases the possibility of obtaining derogations from regulation 1185/2003 is acceptable. i would point out that no evidence is presented to prove the practice of 'finning' in european waters and/or by the european fleet. i therefore consider that the adoption of this report is contrary to the commission's principle of basing its policy actions on scientific data. furthermore, i consider that a quantitative assessment of the socioeconomic impact is strictly necessary in this case, and this is currently lacking. i therefore consider that, as long as there are no scientific data on the practice of 'finning' in european waters, derogations from the existing regulation may be allowed.
in writing. − this barbaric practice of cutting the fins off of sharks on board ships and then dumping their bodies into the sea continues to be widely practiced around the globe and has led to dramatic declines in the populations of these hunted species. the 2003 official eu regulation allows member states to issue special fishing permits, which authorise on-board processing, so that the fins of sharks can be detached from carcasses by respecting the proportions of fins allowed to be removed. however, there have been many cases where fishermen have landed their floats and carcases in different ports. i therefore believe it is very important that the competent authorities in the european union extend checks and inspections to ensure that the regulation is strictly enforced and to punish those who violate it. i also recommend that these rules apply not only to fishing vessels flying the flag of the member states but also to all vessels in european union maritime waters.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the european commission responded positively to parliament’s written declaration on this issue and proposed to close the loophole in the shark finning regulation. the delicate marine eco-system is continually put at risk by overfishing, but the cruel practice of shark finning is particularly damaging because of the additional vulnerability of shark populations. i voted against those attempts by some members to allow the loophole to remain open. the long term sustainability of the fishing sector – and with it our food security – will be ensured by effective, enforceable regulation, not laws with loopholes.
in writing. - i voted against the report on the removal of sharks' fins from ships. examination of shark catches rates generally indicates that many stocks are seriously threatened, although the situation is not the same for all species, or even for the same species in different sea areas. according to the international union for conservation of nature (iucn), more than 25 percent of all pelagic shark species, of which more than 50 percent are large ocean pelagic sharks, are threatened. in recent years, the catching, keeping, transhipping or landing of an increasing number of shark species, including highly commercially valuable swimming sharks, has been prohibited under union law or in the framework of regional fisheries management organisations. blue and mako sharks, classified by the iucn as 'endangered' and 'vulnerable' respectively, are currently the predominant shark species caught by the european fleet, with blue sharks accounting for around 70% of all reported shark landings. however, other species, including hammerhead and tiger sharks, are caught in union waters and outside the union and contribute to the economic viability of the fisheries sector.
in writing. − the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction is of great importance, because it establishes a system allowing participating states to cooperate in order to find a solution to international child abductions, by determining which courts are competent and which law is applicable when deciding where the child should reside. we know that the european union has obtained exclusive external competence in the field of international child abduction. the accession of new states (gabon, andorra, the seychelles, the russian federation, albania, singapore, morocco and armenia) should be accepted by those states which are already members in order for the convention to apply between them. given that the convention does not allow international organisations to become members, the european union should empower the member states to act in its interest when accepting the abovementioned accessions. in the interest of european citizens who would benefit from the adoption of those decisions, it should renounce efforts to impede the proper functioning of the european union on false legal grounds.
in writing. − serious situations of trafficking in persons, especially minors, raise an alarm that prevention measures are ineffective or too slow. it is our duty to bring protection against this phenomenon back into the light. every moment lost because of the council's lack of communication has had a negative impact on the many horrible situations that some children find themselves in. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 helps in the fight against the trafficking of minors. it establishes an effective system, allowing participating states to cooperate in finding solutions to international child abductions and in rapid repatriation; therefore, the accession of the 8 third countries is of utmost importance. in my view, the council must take immediate steps to adopt the decisions proposed by the commission and stop delaying the adoption of the decisions by invoking various shoddy legal grounds. i fully agree with my colleagues that the eight countries should rush to join the convention to gain ground in this very unpleasant situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the acceptance of the accession of eight third countries to the 1980 hague convention on the civil aspects of international child abduction. the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction provides a system for states parties to cooperate in finding a solution to international child abduction by establishing the competent courts and the law applicable when determining the residence of the child. the convention thus provides for the prompt return of abducted children to their countries of residence. the european union has already exercised its internal competence in the field of international child abduction, in particular through regulation (ec) no 2201/2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and the matters of parental responsibility. accession of new states must be accepted by those states which are already members for the purpose of the mutual application of the convention. the convention does not allow international organizations to become members. the european union should empower member states to act in its interest when they accept the accessions mentioned above.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the forthcoming world conference on international telecommunications (wcit-2012) of the international telecommunications organisation (itu) and the possible extension of the scope of international telecommunications regulations. i consider it important that all amendments to international telecommunications regulations are compatible with the eu acquis and facilitate the achievement of the objective of promoting the internet as a truly public space, where human rights and fundamental freedoms, in particular freedom of expression and assembly, are respected and compliance with the principles of the free market, net neutrality and entrepreneurship is guaranteed. i support any proposals to maintain the current scope of international telecommunications regulations (itrs) and the current mandate of the itu and consider that the itu or any other single centralized international institution is not an appropriate body to exercise regulatory authority over the governance of the internet or internet traffic flows. we call on member states to prevent any changes to international telecommunications regulations that could affect the open nature of the internet, network neutrality, end-to-end principle, universal service obligations and multi-actor participatory governance.
in writing. − climate change is undeniably real and represents the greatest environmental threat facing humanity. the european union is making considerable efforts to reduce its member states' greenhouse gas emissions and to encourage other countries around the world to follow suit. there is no silver bullet to stop climate change, and that is why i believe it is absolutely necessary to reach a consensus among all countries in their efforts to limit carbon dioxide emissions. a new international agreement on reducing emissions is imperative. in this respect, the eu must play a more active and influential role in international climate change negotiations. all eu institutions need to further expand their climate diplomacy to make the eu's position on climate change policy clearer and to convince partners around the world, including china and the united states, that it is in everyone's interest to participate in an international agreement.
in writing. − the degradation of the earth's climate is a constant danger. the durban platform recognises that climate change is an irreversible threat to people and the planet. the eu delegation plays a vital role in the climate change negotiations - we are responsible for developing the basis for international agreements on environmental protection. the doha climate change plan must be implemented by 2020: global emissions must be reduced by at least 50%. this is an emergency. recent studies show that climate change is getting worse, severely affecting the arctic region and especially the people living in poor countries. i believe the top priority is to phase out fossil fuel subsidies and redirect funds to climate finance and r&d investment. i recommend using funds extracted from international financial transaction fees and international shipping/air taxes. i agree with my colleagues that in order to combat this phenomenon we must coordinate european decision-making powers. the eu must speak with one voice, alongside the world, and the pretext of economic crisis for inaction and non-cooperation must be removed.
in writing. − if we think back a few years to the copenhagen conference and the importance which was attached to it, it is quite striking how little media attention the subsequent negotiations in cancún and durban have received in comparison. this has obscured the fact that these more recent negotiations have in fact produced constructive – if modest – progress. the developments we have seen on issues such as forestry monitoring and reporting and the clean development mechanism are both encouraging and significant. they might not always be headline news, but they show that international cooperation is working and that meaningful progress can be made. we should continue to build on this progress, especially in the area of forestry and financing. deforestation is one of the single biggest contributory factors to co2 increases. effective international forestry management will not only reduce these emissions, but will also help preserve biodiversity and the invaluable eco-services it provides. we do not have to wait for a finalised international agreement on emissions before we put in place concrete measures which will deliver not only co2 reduction but also wider environmental, economic and societal benefits in the medium and long term.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the doha climate change conference. climate change is an immediate and potentially irreversible threat to human societies and the planet, and therefore requires international action. according to the international energy agency (iea), global energy demand is projected to increase by one third between 2010 and 2035. most of the gradual increase in energy demand and emissions will occur in emerging economies. decarbonising the industry and energy sector through innovation would be an asset for the eu, given its pioneering role in the growing global market for energy goods and services. i believe that ensuring policy coherence and mainstreaming environmental protection in development projects are essential to the effectiveness of the eu's climate change mitigation and adaptation strategy. i stress the urgent need to avoid a funding gap beyond 2012 and to identify a way to secure climate finance for the period 2013-2020.
in writing. − the process of enlargement by accepting new member states has been on the agenda of the european union since its inception, and the last decade has shown that enlargement benefits the union as a whole and makes it better equipped to face global challenges. while enlargement of the union is desirable, it is necessary for states wishing to become eu members to fulfil all the accession criteria set out in union law and to be able to fulfil the obligations they have assumed. this report underlines that the issue of enlargement of the european union must be treated with increased attention in the current context, looking not only at the reforms that a state is able to carry out to align with european standards, but also at the union's capacity to integrate new states into the european construction. i believe that in the process of negotiations with countries wishing to join the european union, the respect for fundamental rights and the proper functioning of the justice system should be a priority criterion.
in writing. − enlargement is a successful process for the eu, contributing to peace, stability and prosperity across europe. the eu also continues to be attractive because of its unique combination of economic dynamism and a social model, and i regret that this social dimension is largely neglected by the enlargement process. the social acquis includes minimum standards in areas such as labour law, equal treatment between men and women, and health and safety at work. failure to comply with basic social standards constitutes a form of social dumping which is to the detriment of european businesses and european workers and would effectively prevent a candidate country from participating in the single market. greater attention should be paid to developing enforcement mechanisms, such as labour inspection, to protect workers and ensure respect for their social rights, health and safety standards, and to combat exploitation, especially of undeclared workers. i also believe that it is important to mainstream gender equality policies. among the countries that deserve to join the european family is the republic of moldova. the negotiations on an association agreement with the eu bear witness to this. a. moldova is a success story because it has made progress with concrete results in a short period of time.
in writing. − in a globalised world, it is beneficial that the european union continues to be attractive to candidate countries through the principles it promotes and its model, and the enlargement process must continue to be based on the copenhagen criteria. these must remain the foundation of the enlargement process, because they will enable the candidate countries, as was the case with the central and eastern states of the continent, to adapt to the requirements of the union and become full eu states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution on enlargement: eu policies, criteria and strategic interests. after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament has increased its co-legislative powers, including with regard to the instrument for pre-accession assistance (ipa). i voted for the paragraphs which stress that failure to respect the eu's common basic social standards constitutes a form of social dumping which is to the detriment of european businesses and european workers. i also stress the importance of the eu's assistance to the candidate countries. we call on the commission to simplify the administrative procedure and reduce the administrative burden for ipa funding, to increase its accessibility and to strengthen the participation of small and decentralised civil society organisations, trade unions and other beneficiaries. we call for strengthening support for small and medium-sized enterprises (smes), which are essential for socioeconomic progress in all countries involved in the accession process. at the same time, we call for attention to be paid to the problems of high unemployment and the integration of the most vulnerable into society. we underline the importance of the use of ipa and neighbourhood policy investments by the candidate countries and for the implementation of the objectives of macro-regional strategies such as the eu strategy for the danube region.
in writing. − as is well known, the common security and defence policy is based on the member states. the european union is currently going through a period of austerity, driven by the global economic crisis, marked by the inclination of european states to keep their defence budgets low. but developments in syria and the congo show that the common security and defence policy remains a strategic need for the eu, and its role cannot exist without the capabilities needed to carry out missions, both territorial defence and those at strategic distance or proximity. we must therefore ensure the convergence and cohesion of initiatives and processes such as 'smart defense' and 'pooling and sharing' in the future, developing eu and nato capabilities in a coordinated and complementary manner.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the implementation of the common security and defence policy. the geostrategic context of the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the common european security and defence policy (csdp) is undergoing major changes, in particular as a result of the turmoil in the middle east and north africa and the emergence of new actors with regional or even global ambitions on the international scene. climate change is also a major and multiplying threat to global security, peace and stability. i believe that the european union must respond to these threats and challenges by adopting a united position, thereby ensuring the coherence of its response, acting in a spirit of solidarity between its member states and using all the means and instruments at its disposal to guarantee the peace and security of its citizens. i support the need for a white paper on eu security and defence, which would define the eu's strategic interests in a context of continuously evolving threats, from the perspective of the security capabilities of its member states and the ability of the eu institutions to act in an effective, coherent and united manner.
in writing. - mr paşcu's report is an ambitious and realistic report and i congratulate him on its preparation. i personally believe that we do not need a new instrument at european level, but we need better interaction between the existing instruments. the eu has also established mechanisms for emergency and crisis coordination, european civil protection, the eeas operational and crisis coordination, the eu intelligence analysis centre, the commission's strategic analysis and response capabilities centre, the europol network, the atlas network, argus, the frontex agencies. all these instruments must be adapted and coordinated accordingly. i hope that next month the high representative for foreign affairs will specify the situations that would trigger the solidarity clause, as well as the practical mechanisms for its implementation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on 'eu mutual defence and solidarity clauses: political and operational dimensions', given that the security of eu member states is indivisible and all european citizens must have the same security guarantees and an equal level of protection against traditional and unconventional threats. the defence of peace, security, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and freedom in europe is indispensable for the good of our peoples and must remain a fundamental objective and responsibility of the european countries and the union. i believe that european countries need to have credible military capabilities and i encourage member states to step up their collaborative efforts in military capability development, in particular through the eu-nato 'sharing and sharing' and 'intelligent defence' complementary initiatives, which are a very important solution for times of defence budgetary constraints. where a member state is the victim of a terrorist attack or of a natural or man-made disaster, the union and the member states shall act jointly in a spirit of solidarity to provide assistance at the request of the political authorities of that member state.
in writing. − in recent years, both public and private sector it emergency response teams have been established in the form of small clusters of it experts who can react quickly and effectively to information security incidents and cyber threats. they have proven to be a key component in the strategy to defend against these threats by preventing, detecting and correcting vulnerabilities and security breaches. the teams thus warn their clients of vulnerabilities and threats and can recommend risk mitigation actions.
in writing. − i believe that the protection of critical information infrastructures should be included in the european union's internal security strategy, in the context of increasing the level of security of citizens and businesses in cyberspace.
in writing. - i voted for the report on defence and cybersecurity. in today's globalised environment, the eu and its member states rely crucially on a secure information space, on the secure use of resilient and reliable information and technology and on connected infrastructures. in the context of the increasing use of new technologies, challenges, threats and cyber attacks are also increasing at a dramatic rate. they constitute a major threat to security and defence. we call on the commission and the high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy to consider the possibility of a serious cyber attack against a member state in the future proposal on measures to implement the solidarity clause (article 22 tfeu). all eu cybersecurity policies must be based on and designed to ensure maximum protection, preservation of digital freedoms and respect for human rights online.
in writing. − global warming and the concrete problems generated by climate change are the great challenge of the century we are living in. finding solutions to limit the effects of this phenomenon is and has always been in the interest of the whole world. at the same time, it is very important that the solution to this problem is practical and easily understood by citizens and those who have to implement public policies of the european union. the fact that the subject of global warming is being debated is certainly a positive thing, but finding solutions to the problems facing the citizens of the european union is equally important. the european union needs to develop not only its political capacity to act to prevent climate change, but also its institutional capacity to intervene to ensure the immediate safety of european citizens in the event of climate-related crises and natural disasters. i believe that the common security and defence policy can be the institutional framework from which we can start to achieve the objective of protecting the population in such situations.
in writing. − in recent years, due to the problems of the economic and financial crisis, climate change has been relegated to the background. extreme weather events that have hit different countries have put new pressure on the world economy through the direct costs of reconstruction and aid, but also in the form of indirect costs in insurance premiums, product and service prices. i believe it is essential that the impact analysis of potential climate-related natural disasters is integrated into the csdp's operational strategies and plans and that we also need to have contingency plans for mitigating risks in the most exposed regions, taking into account the humanitarian principles set out in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. − i believe that the european union needs to consider the security implications of climate change in its dialogues with third countries such as india, and that a truly effective response will require a multilateral approach and joint investments with third countries.
in writing. − i think this topic is debated at the appropriate time, in view of the recent hurricane sandy and especially at this time when the cypriot presidency launched the non-paper on eu military capability development which will contribute to the preparation for the debates focusing on defence issues at the european council in december 2013. there is a need for close coordination, as security is inter-connected with natural disasters. our challenge in the future is to enhance the early warning mechanism and to bring about further movement on early prevention actions. i am glad the rapporteur shared the vision i expressed in my amendment on the need for a climate security envoy within the external action service.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the role of the common security and defence policy in the event of climate-related crises and natural disasters. energy security is closely linked to climate change. energy security must therefore be improved by reducing the eu's dependence on fossil fuels, such as those imported from russia via pipelines that may become vulnerable to disruption due to melting permafrost. i support the need to address the multiplier risk through a strengthened eu strategy for the arctic. we call for the development of a strengthened policy on eu-generated renewable energy and energy efficiency, which will significantly reduce the union's dependence on external sources and consequently improve its security position. i believe it is important to align the wider developments in the european defence industrial base with the specific requirements of climate-related crises and natural disasters. they advocate that public procurement and capacity-building programmes allocate financial means, as well as other appropriate resources, to specific needs to respond to the effects of climate change and natural disasters.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution containing the european parliament's recommendation to the council, the commission and the european external action service on the negotiations for an eu-kazakhstan expanded partnership and cooperation agreement. i attach particular importance to eu-kazakhstan cooperation in the field of energy, in particular in terms of energy security and the development of the trans-caspian energy supply route, as well as attracting investment for projects of common and regional interest in the field of energy. i support the stepping up of technical assistance to kazakhstan in the field of water conservation and water management in general, under the eu's water initiative for central asia. i believe it is important to support kazakhstan in adopting effective measures and programmes on radioactive waste and reducing radioactive pollution in the semey/semipalatinsk region. i believe that the adoption by kazakhstan of eu rules and regulatory systems (including sanitary and phytosanitary (sps) agreements, technical barriers to trade (tbt) and intellectual property rights (ipr)) would lead to increased trade and investment flows, which would promote the modernisation and diversification of the kazakh economy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because its provisions place greater emphasis on the specific features of small-scale fishing. the report also attempts to find an appropriate response to the problems currently facing the sector. small-scale fishing has a high potential and therefore needs to be taken more into account in the process of developing the reform of the common fisheries policy. i believe that the flow of information in this area is crucial for more effective management. concrete measures to support small-scale fisheries are needed to ensure that the reform of the common fisheries policy is responsible and sustainable.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on small-scale coastal fishing, artisanal fishing and the reform of the common fisheries policy. it calls on the member states to take into account the importance of the economic, social and cultural role of women in the fishing industry, so that they can access social benefits. the active participation of women in the various fishing activities contributes to the preservation of cultural traditions and specific practices and to the survival of communities, thus ensuring the protection of the cultural diversity of these regions. i believe that the rules for implementing the future european maritime and fisheries fund (emff) should make it possible to finance actions, in particular in the following areas: improving safety, living and working conditions on board vessels; increasing economic and environmental sustainability; investing in more sustainable fishing gear; building specialised fishing ports with specific facilities for landing, storing and selling fishery products; promoting and marketing artisanal fisheries and extensive aquaculture products by creating a european label; supporting education and marketing campaigns to inform consumers and young people about the importance of small-scale fishing for consumers.
in writing. − in the context of the 2014 european parliamentary elections, european political families must propose candidates for the presidency of the commission and candidates must play an important role in the parliamentary election campaign. it is important to strengthen the political legitimacy of both parliament and the commission by linking their choice more directly to the choices of the electorate. it is well known that women are underrepresented in politics, although they have an indispensable role in resolving crises and conflicts. women have demonstrated internationally that it is imperative that they participate in global politics. the european commission must generate legislative proposals on gender equality in politics, and the rest of the european institutions must extend equality at all levels. the proportion of women in political decision-making has not increased in recent years, and in some decision-making structures this proportion has even declined. although i voted for equal participation of women and men in the elections to the ep, which would have guaranteed balanced representation in the european forum, i regret that the plenary of the parliament did not vote, especially the european right, on the effective achievement of gender equality.
in writing. − in preparing for the next elections to the european parliament, in addition to the technical details of organisation, i believe it is important to focus on how to attract as high a share of the electorate as possible to the polls. considering that the 2009 elections for the european union's legislative forum had the lowest turnout in the institution's 30-year history, with only 43% of eu citizens entitled to vote, i appreciate the need for large-scale campaigns to inform citizens about the importance of expressing their electoral choices. i also believe that people should be aware that the european parliament now has much more power than in the past, after the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, and it is inconceivable that the representatives of the citizens, that is, those who will use this power, should be voted by less than half of those whom they will directly influence through their decisions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the european parliament resolution of 22 november 2012 on the 2014 elections to the european parliament. citizens are directly represented at union level by members of the european parliament, and the president of the european commission is elected by parliament on a proposal from the european council, acting by a qualified majority on the basis of the results of the elections to the european parliament. the european council should have had appropriate consultations before making the nomination. we call on the next president of the commission to ensure that the european commission is a balanced representation of women and men and we recommend that each member state nominate both a female and a male candidate for the next college of commissioners. parliament calls on the member states to establish in their electoral law, in accordance with article 3 of the act concerning the election of the representatives of the legislative assembly by direct universal suffrage, appropriate and proportionate minimum thresholds for the allocation of seats, so as to reflect adequately the choices of citizens expressed at the elections. however, i am not in favour of holding elections to the european parliament in may.
sattar beheshti is not just another example of the restriction of freedom of expression, he is the representative of a civil society whose aspirations for freedom are systematically brutally crushed. but as long as there is a civil society in iran, the european parliament will not stop defending its fundamental rights. i therefore call on the iranian authorities to investigate impartially the circumstances that led to the death in custody of sattar beheshti and to inform his family of the outcome of the investigation. i would also like to express my concern about the sakharov prize winners, nasrin sotoudeh and jafar panahi, and call on the iranian authorities to stop their crackdown on civil society.
the recent death of iranian blogger sattar beheshti is emblematic of the dramatic human rights situation in that country. here in parliament, we have repeatedly denounced human rights violations in iran. indeed, the defenders of these rights - journalists, bloggers, artists, students, lawyers, trade unionists - are regularly subjected to government pressure and live under the constant threat of ending up in iranian jails. this was the fate of beheshti, whose courage in exposing the abuses of the iranian regime was rewarded with death in prison. and worse, according to multiple sources, his death is the result of torture he was subjected to. when we know iran's history of deaths in prison, this conclusion is perfectly justified. however, we must insist that this case be investigated and the guilty punished. as one of the supporters of the epp group in the nomination of nasrin sotoudeh and jafar panahi for the sakharov prize, i conclude by calling for their immediate release.
the murder of iranian blogger sattar beheshti is all the more shocking as it is the death of a man who did nothing but peacefully express his opinions on a blog. it is one of the many crimes of the regime in tehran, which demonstrates its inhuman absurdity. as has been said here, we must do more than condemn, of course, in the strongest possible terms, this outrageous crime, to the end of the inhuman torture to which this young blogger has been subjected in prison. i also call on the iranian authorities to investigate this crime and to end the brutal repression against freedom of expression. the european union also has an obligation to urge iran to establish a moratorium on executions, the number of which is worryingly increasing, and to take the step towards abolishing the death penalty, which is now applied even to minors. sanctions are needed to compel the iranian authorities to respect the fundamental rights of the human being and the citizens of this country.
freedom of speech is one of the fundamental principles of a democracy. that's why the iranian blogger's case is of particular concern to me. his arrest and death, in at least suspicious circumstances, raises questions about the iranian authorities' defense of democratic principles. such practices should be discouraged by all means. the union, as a promoter of fundamental rights, should find ways to put pressure on the iranian authorities. political prisoners must be released immediately and discrimination against religious minorities must end. i am referring in particular to the sakharov prize winners, who must be able to receive their award in parliament in december. for iran to regain its credibility, it must abide by the international covenant on civil and political rights.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank members for their very pertinent views and for the serious debate today. the european union is seriously concerned about the deteriorating human rights record in iran. the continuous repression of political opponents, human rights defenders, journalists, artists, bloggers, lawyers, women and minority groups is a real problem. the european parliament is playing an important role in denouncing this situation. the award of this year’s sakharov prize to two leading iranians defending freedom of thought – the lawyer nasrin sotoudeh, and the film director jafar penahi – is a very significant example of parliament’s commitment to human rights. the tragic death of blogger sattar beheshti in custody is a poignant example of the precarious situation of human rights activists in iran. the european union responded swiftly by urging the iranian authorities to conduct a thorough investigation into the circumstances of his death. afterwards the iranian judiciary announced that an inquiry had been launched and that the persons responsible would be prosecuted. we shall of course closely follow developments. early october saw a spate of arrests of prominent human rights lawyers. the eu reacted to this on several fronts by summoning the iranian ambassador to the eu in brussels, issuing a statement and carrying out a démarche in tehran. iran’s extensive use of the death penalty is particularly worrisome. so far we have confirmation of 338 executions this year. this reconfirms that iran is one of the world’s most frequent users of capital punishment. in addition, collective and public executions are common in iran. the eu has a strong stance against the death penalty and we have repeatedly condemned executions in iran. the high representative and vice-president, catherine ashton, issued her latest statement on 23 october condemning the collective executions of 10 iranians charged with drug smuggling. the eu also remains deeply concerned about the position of ethnic and religious minorities in iran. despite constitutional guarantees of equality, they are subject to an array of discriminatory laws and practices. we are using all tools available to raise awareness and call on iran to respect the principles of equal treatment and non-discrimination. we recall that 78 individuals are now on the eu human rights sanctions list for human rights violations in iran. the list is reviewed on a regular basis to take into account developments in the country. finally, the eu fully supports the role of the un special rapporteur on iran, mr shaheed, and we have officially called on iran to facilitate his visit to the country.
the author. it may seem odd that we have a second emergency debate on burma in the last two months, at a time when the efforts of the government in that country to restore civil liberties are internationally recognised. the resolution we are discussing today is not intended to deny these efforts, but to engage in a dialogue on the efforts that the burmese authorities must make further. among these efforts, some must certainly address the dramatic situation in the rakhine state. declaring a state of emergency is an important step, but the government must prevent and stop attacks against the rohingya minority. such a step would require a review of the citizenship act of 1982 and an analysis of the causes that led to the violence. appropriate measures, such as equal access to education, work permits and respect for freedom of movement, are also needed. as far as the european side is concerned, i think we must show our willingness to contribute to stabilizing the situation through humanitarian aid. burma has progressed, quite rightly, in recent times, from a country that was considered a tyranny, to a country whose efforts to move towards democracy are, as i said, recognized. that is why it would be a shame if these efforts were called into question by the situation in rakhine. i hope that the burmese authorities will accept the observations we are making today as a way of contributing to the smooth running of the transition process.
the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, and the european union is committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy. the continuing interfaith atrocities in rakhine state force us to take a firm stand and to call once again on the burmese government to seek peaceful and lasting solutions to the problems of this region, which is scarred by violence caused by poverty and intolerance. since june, over 100,000 people have fled their homes, and the humanitarian situation in the refugee camps is worsening alarmingly. it has increased the number of dead and missing in the bay of bengal, because, rejected by bangladesh, refugees are now trying to reach malaysia by improvised boats. the burmese authorities have a duty to act urgently to resolve the humanitarian crisis, to stop the clashes between muslims and buddhists and to initiate a process of reconciliation based on mutual tolerance. we also demand the release of all prisoners of conscience, after the first step of the partial amnesty.
mr president, i strongly condemn the renewed outbreaks of violence that took place recently in western burma. the conflict between ethnic rakhine buddhists and rohingya muslims is inflicting a lot of pain on innocent people. even worse is the escalation of the conflict that took place in october. recent violent attacks have left 89 burmese dead and 35 000 displaced, and destroyed over 5 000 houses and other buildings. the conflict has so far left 110 000 burmese without a home. they need food and shelter. i call on the commission to help these people, to deliver the eur 8 billion of financial assistance and to help rakhine state. i welcome the burmese government’s decision to launch an investigation into the source of this violence, but the result is what matters. the perpetrators must be brought to justice and all parties should explore solutions to end the tension between the buddhist and muslim populations and to put an end to this crisis.
mr president, while we welcome the return to political stability after july’s election in libya, there are worrying reports about detention centres in tripoli where migrants are allegedly mistreated. democracy and the rule of law in this country cannot be separated from a functioning judicial system and equal treatment of all its citizens. the european union must continue to assist libya’s new democracy by offering financial assistance through its various neighbourhood policy instruments. however, we must always underline that our help does depend on the fulfilment of commitments, such as those relating to the principles of the rule of law and democracy. i trust we can develop a good political partnership with libya’s new government. i endorse parliament’s call on vice-president/high representative catherine ashton to develop, together with the libyan foreign affairs minister, a comprehensive approach to mobility which will make use of the eu toolkit of human rights-based strategies and approaches.
libya is an example of how a people can free themselves from tyranny, with the support of the international community. it is clear that the transition to a democratic, pluralistic, prosperous society cannot be a quick or easy one in a country like libya, but to succeed, it must meet its commitments and accept our support. because libya was a country rich in resources, and i'm talking about oil here, first of all, many migrants have worked or are working in this country. and through no fault of their own, most of them were caught in the middle of the conflict that erupted in libya. unfortunately, even at this time, many foreigners are subjected to abuses and violations of human rights, and the conditions of those in detention are absolutely unacceptable and revolting. the european parliament must call very strongly on the libyan government, and it does so with this resolution, to take steps to resolve this situation in accordance with international rules.
on behalf of the alde group. – madam president, the commission’s approach to negotiations with latin america has always been a ‘region-to-region’ approach. nevertheless, so far none of the agreements have been concluded. the association agreement with the andean community has failed and instead tomorrow we will approve, i am convinced, a multi-party agreement with colombia and peru. at the same time, the negotiations with mercosur are rather hectic and unpredictable due to a number of things, including the versatile membership of mercosur, which means that the association agreement we are discussing today with central america is the first concluded by the eu after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. more importantly, it is the first comprehensive partnership between the regions which marks the result of the parties’ unbending political will. this association agreement contains three main pillars – political dialogue, cooperation and trade – thus marking a decisive step forwards in the integration of central america and going far beyond mere questions of free trade. it is, at the minimum, the starting point for a coherent and holistic approach towards cooperation between the parties. otherwise, can we sincerely believe that the eu, particularly now in these times of economic and social crisis within its own territory, would conclude association or partnership agreements with each and every country in central america? of course i am aware of the asymmetries which exist between the two regions and among the central american countries, and i am conscious of the efforts to be made in order to generate greater synergies between both regions, but i also truly hope that this agreement will bring benefits to all parties and boost integration on a regional, social, economic and cultural level.
as a member of the mercosur delegation, i would like to stress that the european union is central america's main investor and second largest trading partner. the aim of the association agreement between the european union and central america should be to promote sustainable development, social cohesion and regional integration. the agreement should stimulate cooperation in sectors strategic to both regions, in particular on trade and sustainable development, scientific and technical cooperation in areas such as institution building, harmonisation of standards, customs procedures and statistics, intellectual property, service provision, public procurement, e-commerce, industrial development, sustainable resource management and support for small and medium-sized enterprises. the agreement will fully exempt european union exporters of industrial and fishery products to central america from customs duties. central america will benefit from substantial market access to the european union, in particular for its main agricultural exports, and the union will grant a 100% duty exemption for industrial and fishery products originating in central america.
mr president, we are facing an agreement which is controversial, and it is only logical that it should be so because this is a region where human rights and labour rights have been violated for too long. but it is also true that since the start of the work on the conclusion of the agreement, great improvements have been made in the chapters on rights and democracy. now we have reached the voting stage and we can do two things: one, to encourage the improvement of democracy and rights in these countries by supporting the agreement; and the other, to vote against it because it is considered that not enough progress has been made; we would thus abort the path started towards improvement for these people. my view, mr president, is that the european parliament must be part of the solution for this region and for these countries, and not part of the problem. i shall therefore vote in favour of this agreement tomorrow, in the conviction that we must continue to ensure that all commitments are respected, both in relation to rights and democracy and in the commercial field. that is why i ask that this agreement be voted on, to improve the lives of the people in this region.
i welcome the determination of colombia and peru to deepen their partnership with the european union. i would also like to point out that this agreement is not the definitive framework for the european union's relations with the countries of the region. the cooperation mechanism must be strengthened and may at any time include other countries of the andean community, and, above all, it must be understood as a step towards a comprehensive partnership with latin america. the agreement will allow colombia and peru to continue to have duty-free access to the eu market, while the two countries will no longer benefit from the generalized system of trade preferences as a result of its revision. i would, however, like to draw particular attention to the human rights clauses and roadmap, and in particular to the workers' rights clauses, because they are essential to help colombia and peru improve their fundamental rights situation. i think that both countries have made important progress in this area and that is why i think that they should be encouraged.
we welcome the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the regulation laying down transitional provisions on bilateral investment agreements between member states and third countries. before the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, member states negotiated and signed investment agreements with third countries. member states have concluded over 1 000 such bilateral agreements, which relate, in whole or in part, to foreign direct investment. since the lisbon treaty, foreign direct investment has become an exclusive competence of the european union and an integral part of the union's trade policy. this proposal for a regulation lays down a framework and conditions under which member states are authorised to open negotiations with a third country to amend an existing bilateral investment agreement. this framework will allow member states to negotiate and conclude, under certain conditions set out in this proposal, a new bilateral investment agreement with third countries.
i welcome the proposal to grant the kyrgyz republic financial aid of eur 30 million in the form of loans and grants. i hope that the allocation of this amount will help the kyrgyz republic to cope with the serious financial and social problems it is facing as a result of the global economic and financial crisis, as well as the regrettable political events of june 2010. corruption, authoritarian rule, and repression against the population have made kyrgyzstan's path to democracy a difficult one. in addition, the attempt to hold transparent parliamentary elections in 2010 was overshadowed by inter-ethnic violence between uzbeks and kyrgyz, which left hundreds of people dead. i believe that the financial assistance should contribute to the implementation of important democratic reforms, as agreed following bilateral negotiations between the kyrgyz republic and the european union. whatever solution is found in the legal dispute my colleagues have spoken of, i believe that european diplomacy can and must play a greater role in promoting human rights in the central asian region.
mr. president, i have to go. parliamentary elections were held in romania on sunday, december 9th of this year. the romanian hungarian democratic union, of which i am a member, has been pursuing a consistent policy for 23 years, since its founding. he never changed his name or his schedule. a stable, reliable political organisation which has continued to retain its political strength as the country's fourth political party. wilfried martens, president of the european people's party, recently called the alliance the leading unit of the hungarian community in romania. my fellow members of the house of representatives! the rmdsz will continue to represent the interests of its constituents, the hungarian national community and transylvania within romania consistently in parliament, in a european spirit. the votes cast for the rmdsz yesterday guarantee the european future of our country. through the representation of the hungarian community in romania, the rmdsz has been and is a guarantee of the rule of law and democracy.
romania is ending a very difficult political year with the social liberal union's landslide victory in yesterday's parliamentary elections. about 60% of the seats in the future legislature will be held by senators and deputies of this coalition, which supports the current government of prime minister victor ponta. the proportions of this success are an indication of the mood of romanian citizens, exasperated by the conflictual style in which president traian basescu understood to exercise his capacity as head of state. moreover, the score is mainly due to the negative vote against a head of state increasingly lacking legitimacy. i ask the political forces and european institutions to monitor how president traian basescu will respect the will of the romanian voters, because his recent statements are a worrying warning of a new political crisis, if the formation of the government will not be entrusted to the winner in the elections, as is natural in a functioning democracy.
of the approximately 600 000 europeans suffering from ms, the majority are women. multiple sclerosis is the most common neurodegenerative disease and a leading cause of non-traumatic disability in older women. as i called for in my written statement earlier this year, and in all my work on this subject, the european commission must promote equal access to treatment and flexible employment policies for people with ms and support comparative research on ms. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'.
in the context of the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations, we call on the commission and the member states to encourage a positive attitude towards ageing and to raise the awareness of union citizens about ageing-related issues and its effects. because of the deteriorating quality of life, women are more affected by chronic and disabling diseases. 75.8% of women over 65 live alone and on average 3 out of 10 households in the european union are made up of a single member, mostly elderly women. access to healthcare is more difficult in rural areas than in urban areas, with some areas lacking specialist medical staff and emergency hospitals. equal access for women and men to healthcare and better quality of care, especially in rural areas, must be guaranteed.
the union has set itself the objective of removing the main regulatory obstacles to cross-border electronic transactions and of halving the gaps in digital literacy and skills by 2015. in order to achieve a fully operational digital single market, coordinated efforts are needed to ensure that all citizens, regardless of age, location, education and gender, have access to and are able to use the internet. the completion of the digital market also depends on the widespread adoption of e-invoicing. i stress the importance of facilitating the widespread adoption of factors such as legal certainty, a clear technical environment and open and interoperable solutions for electronic invoicing, based on legal requirements, commercial transactions and common technical standards. the major obstacles to cross-border access to electronic services provided by public administrations relate to the use of electronic signatures and identification, as well as to the problems of incompatibility of e-government systems at eu level. i would like to conclude, madam president, by saying that i welcome the commission's proposals on electronic signatures and public procurement by electronic means.
over the last five years, the internet-based economy has accounted for 21 percent of the gross domestic product growth in developed countries. in addition, it has led to improved productivity and provided new solutions to social challenges such as demographic ageing, inclusion and education. in order to have a well-functioning digital market, the deployment of high-speed communications networks throughout the union is a sine qua non condition. although on paper the commission's plans are ambitious, in reality the european union has lagged behind its competitors in terms of investment in next-generation telecommunications infrastructure. in this regard, i believe that urgent action is needed to: place investment in high-speed networks at the heart of national growth strategies and to attract financial support from private sources which, together with funds from regional programmes or the connecting europe facility, will lead to the strengthening and facilitation of the development of telecommunications it infrastructures.
antimicrobial resistance has dangerous implications for human and animal health. in the european union, norway and iceland, antimicrobial-resistant bacteria have caused about 400 000 infections and 25 000 deaths annually, with costs in additional healthcare and lost productivity of at least €1.5 billion. we call for support for research into new antimicrobials, alternatives to them, and scientifically based strategies to avoid infectious diseases. we call on the european food safety authority to pay particular attention to the monitoring and analysis of the antimicrobial resistance situation in the union. the commission and the member states, in agreement with the competent union agencies, should develop and promote prudent use guidelines with the aim of reducing non-essential and inappropriate exposure to antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine.
in writing. the resolution on the threat of antibiotic resistance, for which i was the epp group rapporteur in the committee on agriculture, is a step forward in effectively addressing this challenge. as i have said in the amendments approved by the committee on agriculture, the main aim of a farmer must be to raise animals in a healthy and productive way and to ensure their welfare, and the appropriate use of antimicrobials is a necessary tool. we must be constantly aware that antibiotics could become completely useless in treatment, because of their misuse and overuse. increased resistance to antimicrobials commonly used in veterinary medicine also leads to production losses, increased costs and occupational risks for farmers. however, a complete ban on antibiotics is a misguided and impractical approach, and is necessary in many situations. i therefore consider that the position taken in the report is a balanced one and should be approved in the form proposed by the commission.
in writing. to find the right solutions to the phenomenon of antimicrobial resistance, we need to look at the causes that have led to this situation. these are primarily the inadequate use of antibiotics in human and veterinary medicine, but also a slow pace of innovation in the discovery of new antibiotics. the fact that we have fewer and fewer effective treatments available for certain multidrug-resistant infections such as tuberculosis (tb) or pneumonia indicates the need for urgent action by member states in this field. the most important measures include investments in research and development, namely the discovery of new antibiotics and vaccines, improved cooperation between member states, and intensive information and education of the public on the responsible use of antibiotics in both human and veterinary medicine. given the cross-border nature of these chemoresistant infections, the european commission has a responsibility to help member states financially to meet such challenges. even if there is political will in some countries, such as romania, which has already developed an effective plan to fight multidrug-resistant tb, they often cannot cope with the costs involved.
although smes are the backbone of the economy and a driving force for the eu economy and job creation, they are unfortunately the most affected by the lack of competitiveness, mainly due to limited access to capital, technology and infrastructure. we cannot talk about extending their work internationally as long as the european union does not give them additional support and facilitate their access to substantial funding. in addition to the funding instruments listed in this report, i believe that the role of cohesion policy in the development and sound growth of businesses in the european union should not be overlooked. smes should be considered as eligible partners for investments financed by these funds and i believe that for the next programming period 2014-2020, an additional allocation of funds to the sme axes, as well as funding for training programmes for entrepreneurs, managers of business networks and export consortia will be essential for the international success of these companies.
the european commission estimates that there are some 23 million smes operating in the eu's single market, providing 75% of private sector jobs. in the last five years alone, they have contributed to the creation of about 80% of new jobs. unfortunately, a fragmented regulatory framework, bureaucracy, lack of access to information and lack of funding limit the access of smes, especially small and micro enterprises, to international markets. only 25% of smes operate across national borders and only 13% of smes are active through exports to markets outside the union. i welcome the cosme programme, which will provide enterprises and smes with a loan guarantee mechanism, providing guarantees for debt financing through ordinary loans, subordinated and participatory loans or leasing in order to reduce the specific difficulties smes face in accessing finance for their development.
member of the commission. − madam president, the commission would like to thank the rapporteur, mr zahradil, and the members of the committee on international trade for their excellent report. it is a substantive and timely contribution on a question to which the commission attaches great importance. how can we better help european smes in exporting, importing and investing beyond the european union? smes form the backbone of the european economy. they are the key to achieving the growth and employment targets within our europe 2020 strategy. yet only a small percentage of smes have the information and financial resources to enlarge their activities beyond the european union. improving the competitiveness of european smes by placing them in a position to successfully enter new markets is therefore essential if we are to exploit the potential, talent and ideas that exist throughout europe. the commission has in recent years made a number of proposals to improve the situation. our initiatives range from the future cosme programme, and the 2011 action plan to improve access to finance for smes, to enhanced support on intellectual property-related questions. we also attach great importance to further enhancing information exchange and cross-border business cooperation, for instance within the enterprise europe network. many of these initiatives are based on existing tools, whether at european, national or regional level. in fact the commission believes that we can only succeed if we all work together in creating the best possible framework conditions within a reasonable timeframe. as the report acknowledges, given the tight resources we have at european level, we need to clearly spell out those measures that can have the greatest impact. in some instances we have to liaise more closely with member states to encourage them to spread best practice. only where there is true added value at european level can we step in to acquire an even more active role than we have already assumed. the commission is grateful to the committee for spelling out clearly a list of concrete proposals, both on access to information and on access to capital. your proposals encourage the commission to continue its ambitious work on the specific topics you raise. they also incentivise us to think further in some domains such as, for example, the provision of export credits. it is particularly important to apply a holistic perspective and to ensure that individual policy areas come together and create a coherent framework that is conducive to the europe 2020 targets. i wish to conclude by confirming that the commission highly appreciates the support parliament gives us to pursue and, where possible and appropriate, extend and improve our initiatives. we will duly reflect on your positions in our daily work on the implementation of the ‘small business, big world’ communication. in essence, your and our efforts point in the same direction. we invite parliament to carry this momentum forward and to continue supporting us in turning our sme-related priorities into practice as fast as we can.
in writing. in the current economic context, the international expansion of smes can generate significant economic growth however, most european smes are reluctant to take on the challenge of entering the global market the main obstacles to expansion in external markets are lack of information, difficulty in accessing funding, and administrative burdens. e. i regret that in the last two years, about one third of european smes that have applied for a bank loan have not been able to obtain it financing or refinancing of these enterprises is necessary for their stability and economic development as such, i believe that the european union must provide the leverage to meet this desire. t. therefore, particular attention should be paid to the intensification of public-private partnerships for the provision of finance and risk capital to smes in the european union future efforts should focus on supporting the development of smes in strategic sectors that offer a commercial advantage over emerging country economies and can create jobs that.
the digital freedom strategy in the european union's foreign policy recognises that uncensored access to the open internet, mobile phones, communications and information technology has had a real impact on human rights and fundamental freedoms. information and communication technology facilitates transparency and good governance, literacy, education, assistance, effective election monitoring and disaster relief, particularly in remote areas and in developing societies. effective european union development and human rights policies require the integration of information and communication technology and the closing of the digital divide by providing basic technological infrastructures, facilitating access to knowledge and information and promoting digital skills worldwide. union development and human rights programmes should include aid programmes promoting digital freedoms, in particular in non-democratic countries, as well as in countries in a period of political transition or in post-conflict situations.
a fragmented patent market and differences in law enforcement impede innovation and progress within the internal market, complicate the use of the patent system and hinder the effective protection of patents, in particular for smes. the creation of the european union patent is an opportunity to strengthen innovation in europe. a perfectly unitary european patent may be licensed for the whole or part of the territory of the participating member states. the unitary patent should reduce the costs for applicants by about 70%. the level of renewal fees is set taking into account, inter alia, the situation of specific entities such as smes. however, i believe it is essential to ensure both the linguistic register for all member states and the legal value of translations into all the official languages of the union. unfortunately, machine translation does not ensure the legal value of translations. finally, i believe that romania should host a regional division for south-east europe within the community patent jurisdiction system.
the establishment of a single court will establish a coherent system for the settlement of patent disputes. i believe that the existence of such a court is particularly useful in relation to software applications, for which patenting varies considerably from one state to another. my recommendation for future structures dealing with unitary patents is to pay particular attention to the system of protection of new technologies, especially software applications, in order to grant good quality patents and to avoid litigation and lawsuits. i also believe that in the future the quality of translations should be improved by using specialists in technical translation. the current level of machine translation software is too low to achieve the quality required by specialized technical-legal language.
in writing. the adoption of a single european union patent is a historic decision. after nearly 40 years of negotiations, an agreement was reached on the establishment of a community patent. although not all countries will participate in enhanced cooperation, i hope that in the future the patent will apply in all countries of the union. until now, the cost of validating a patent in half the member states was 10 times higher than in the united states or japan. this was a major reduction in the competitiveness of european firms, particularly affecting smes. in the context of the fact that smes are the main engine of growth and innovation in the union, they need to be supported. at the same time, ensuring uniform protection will stimulate innovation among european entrepreneurs. last but not least, i believe that the creation of a single patent court is one of the conditions for the functioning of the community patent system. it will improve the application of patents in the union, provide legal certainty and lead to the strengthening of the single market. the adoption of a community patent will contribute to deepening the single market and increasing the union's global competitiveness. if europe is to be at the forefront of innovation, unitary patent protection at union level is indispensable.
in writing. i am delighted that after 40 years of discussions, we can finally say that we have a european patent to protect european inventions. if we really want to boost innovation and the eu's economic competitiveness, i think this instrument was absolutely necessary. the single european patent will considerably reduce the costs of protecting inventions. it is estimated that the cost reduction could be as high as 80%, which can only be beneficial for eu companies competing on the world market with firms in the united states or japan, where the patent process involves much lower costs than in the eu today. i welcome the result that has been achieved on the subject of languages. the translation costs would have had a negative impact on the total costs of the procedure. therefore, the use of 3 languages and the automatic translation system is welcome. this will undoubtedly be beneficial for businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, but also for universities and researchers. it is regrettable that, at present, two member states are not participating in this project and i hope that in the future all eu countries will be part of this project, which is vital for boosting the competitiveness of european businesses.
mr president, i voted in favour of granting macro-financial assistance of eur 30 million to this country; i also support parliament’s position on the advisory procedure for the signing of a memorandum of understanding. the union should cover the 12.4% residual gap in external financing for 2012 which complements the funds provided by the imf. however, we should not forget that the union must use its economic power to promote human rights, democracy and the rule of law. the case of azimjan askarov, a sixty-year-old human rights defender and a member of the uzbek ethnic minority, is worrying. mr askarov was given a life sentence following an allegedly flawed legal process. i urge the eu and the european parliament to give due consideration to such cases and ensure that financial assistance is granted only if certain political conditions are fulfilled.
mr president, 20 years ago we created the single market. the time has now come to create the european digital single market. at present we do not exploit the full potential of the digital economy. the current legal framework is a set of fragmented rules laid down at national level. there are, for instance, obstacles in the areas of consumer protection, vat and payment transactions. consumers and businesses are not encouraged to engage in cross-border trade. at present 60% of e-commerce websites are unsuitable for cross-border on-line shoppers, and consumer and business confidence in the digital environment is still low. a digital single market would offer great opportunities, especially for small and medium enterprises. we must support member states’ initiatives to develop e-skills to stimulate innovative, internet-based business models. regarding consumers, instruments such as the consumer protection cooperation network or a european trustmark should be developed to provide guarantees of online businesses’ full compliance with eu law.
mr president, small and medium-sized enterprises are one of the main drivers of europe’s economy. they need to be able to confront increasing competition from developed and emerging economies and to take advantage of the new market opportunities these countries provide. i urge the member states to provide as much as possible a legal framework which guarantees legal security. at the same time, the union must defend the interests of our small and medium-sized enterprises against violations of the legal security of investments in non-eu countries. we must also help them to access market information and eu legislation in order to overcome legal obstacles and identify potential business partners in third countries markets. this could be a breath of fresh air for the european economy.
mr president, the arab spring has proven that information and communication technologies are key tools in enabling the organisation of social movement and protest. furthermore, icts have the potential to bring positive developments in areas such as transparency, good governance, education or even the facilitation of increased people-to-people contact. however, like any coin, icts have their other dark side. they can be used as tools of repression through censorship, surveillance, and tracing and tracking information and individuals. given their impact on society’s welfare, the union must integrate the ict dimension into its foreign policy. digital freedoms in non-democratic countries, and in countries going through post-conflict or political transition, must be top priority and trade negotiations or any other form of conduct with third countries should be conditional upon the guarantee of and respect for access to the internet and digital freedoms.
mr president, (microphone off at start of speech)...direct investments are a tool for promoting economic and social growth, as well as targeted political reforms. i voted in favour of the recommendation to approve the council position at first reading with a view to the adoption of a regulation on transitional arrangements for bilateral investment agreements between the member states and third countries. i believe we must speed up the process of adoption of this regulation. investor protection for all eu investors must remain a priority for the union and i also speak on behalf of my country, romania. this can only be achieved if we agree on a timely transition from the old to the new post-lisbon system, where foreign direct investments have become the exclusive competence of the european union. ensuring a smooth transition is paramount for achieving our economic and political objectives. this is the reason why i would like to endorse the council’s position at first reading.
mr president, the european patent is 13 times more expensive than in the united states and 11 times more expensive than in japan, thus suffering from lower productivity and development. we must change this. unitary patent protection has been a goal for several decades, but certain obstacles such as legal uncertainty and high costs have not been eliminated, and this has led to a fragmented and insufficiently competitive system. we need a european patent with unitary effect that will help innovation and increase legal protection that now renders it complex and costly. this is why i say we need to put all our efforts into boosting growth through innovation and help european business, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, to compete globally, especially during the economic crisis. the unitary patent system is paramount for the future competitive edge of the eu.
mr president, at present the holder of a european patent must have the patent validated separately in all those member states where he seeks protection. to do so, the patent must be translated into the respective national languages. this complex procedure involves very high costs. the overall cost of validation of a european patent averages eur 12 500 if validated in only 13 member states, and over eur 32 000 if validated in all the eu member states. the current european patent system is extremely expensive. it also lacks legal certainty due to the very expensive and risky pursuit of multi-forum litigation, which often results in contradictory judgments in several member states. today we have taken a step forward. the present regulation limits translation arrangements to the three working languages of the european patent office. however, we must acknowledge that english is the predominant language in international trade and promote it as much as possible in our patent system. moreover, even if reduced, translation costs will remain high, especially for small and medium enterprises.
mr president, the establishment of an effective unitary patent protection must come at the same time as a unified jurisdictional system. the unified patent court would replace widely differing national court systems and procedural rules with one coherent system. this will ensure legal certainty and international competitiveness, as well as improving the enforcement of patents. the composition of the court should be multinational to ensure that it is unified, with both legally and technically qualified judges, to ensure the highest capacity in the field of patent litigation and anti-trust law. it also must fully respect and apply union law, as the guardian of the union legal order is the court of justice, and to ensure the uniformity of the union legal order and the primacy of european law. i support the creation of the unified patent court as it would maximise the quality and efficiency of proceedings, cut litigation costs, and ensure legal certainty through the uniform interpretation of the applicable rules.
mr president, i would like to welcome this first region-to-region association agreement between the european union and central america. i believe it is important for the union to continue on the path of regional integration, whhile also strengthening its efforts to promote human rights, rule of law and anti-corruption measures. the agreement achieves these objectives. moreover, the report, which received a two-thirds majority of votes in committee, makes clear our support for democratic principles. the relevant trade provisions go hand-in-hand with clearly spelled-out political objectives. i believe this text strikes a good balance between economic incentives to central america and the creation of proper mechanisms for pressuring governments to fulfil their commitments to democracy and justice and rule of law. i would like, therefore, to show my support for the next negotiation by my colleagues and vote in favour of the important recommendation, which i did.
mr president, i voted in favour of this report and parliament’s consent to the trade agreement between the eu and colombia and peru. union investment is expected to lead to a 1.7% increase in the gross national product of colombia and a 0.7% increase in the gnp of peru. these figures prove that trade improves people’s lives and acts as a catalyst for much-needed political reforms. the special procedure which led to the adoption of this report by the inta committee shows that colombia and peru are willing to address their human rights and environmental protection issues. in the process of negotiating such bilateral agreements the union must always make clear its requests, and support, for political reforms for democracy and justice. parliament has played a positive role; the present consensus is also the result of our joint efforts to make the governments of colombia and peru take concrete steps to fulfil political objectives.
mr president, women have a longer life expectancy than men – 82.4 years as opposed to 76.4 years. however, if we focus solely on healthy life expectancy, the difference is less substantial – 62 years for women and 61 years for men. women might live longer, but unfortunately not healthier. we need to improve our policies on the prevention of diseases. for instance, if the mammography coverage rate were above 70 %, breast cancer deaths among women aged over 50 could be reduced by at least 30 %. targeting actions solely on elderly women is not enough and is the wrong policy. women are facing a broad range of inequalities in their professional life, such as the employment rate scheme or even salary. all these have a major impact later on their pension contributions and will make them particularly vulnerable to situations of insecurity, illness or poverty. this is why we need policies to prevent age-related diseases for women from a very early stage.
mr president, every year antimicrobial-resistant bacteria cause some 400 000 infections and 25 000 deaths in the european union, norway and iceland. antimicrobial resistance also costs at least eur 1.5 billion in extra healthcare costs and productivity losses. for eighty years we have used antimicrobials rather automatically, but this has resulted in their loss of effectiveness. member states must review the legal status of all antimicrobials that are available to patients without a prescription. self-treatment with antimicrobials must be discouraged. new anti-bacterial drug development costs tens of millions of euros in research. development has been pretty rare in the last forty years. it is therefore crucial to maintain the effectiveness of existing antimicrobials and to strengthen incentives for public and private sector cooperation. we cannot afford a return to the pre-antibiotic era.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because, like many other countries, kyrgyzstan has been hit hard by the economic crisis. but economic problems were compounded by a popular uprising that left over 470 dead and 300,000 displaced. the union supported humanitarian efforts in 2010, while also committing itself to macro-financial assistance. these measures were taken as a result of the democratic reforms adopted by the new parliament. i believe that the assistance will support reform measures aimed at ensuring a more sustainable balance of payments and budgetary position in the short term. the assistance would also promote fiscal consolidation, tax reforms, and other measures to strengthen the banking system. but the commission will have to ensure, through very careful monitoring, that the money is spent properly.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the kyrgyz republic needs the european union's help to implement the necessary democratic reforms. the financial assistance of eur 30 million can also help the kyrgyz republic to cope with the serious financial and social problems it is facing.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of macrofinancial assistance to the kyrgyz republic. in 2010, in view of the deteriorating economic situation and prospects, the kyrgyz republic requested macro-financial assistance from the european union. the union shall make available to the kyrgyz republic macro-financial assistance of up to eur 30 million to support the economic stabilisation of the country and to cover its balance of payments needs as identified in the current imf programme. of this amount, up to eur 15 million will be provided in the form of grants and up to eur 15 million in the form of loans. in order to ensure effective protection of the financial interests of the union in relation to this macro-financial assistance, it is necessary that the kyrgyz republic take appropriate measures to prevent and combat fraud, corruption and any other irregularities linked to this assistance. these conditions aim at improving the efficiency and transparency of assistance and the accountability of its implementation, including improving public financial management systems in the kyrgyz republic.
in writing. − in a world where energy prices are becoming an increasingly important issue for individual consumers as well as for economic and industrial actors, energy efficiency must be one of the major objectives of public policies developed by the european union and the member states. at the same time, it is very important to remember that another problem of the economies of the member states of the european union is precisely the lack of competitiveness in business due to the many regulations imposed on companies in the european area. nor should we forget the commitments made by the european union to promote a sustainable development model, in line with the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. given that both these issues are very important to eu citizens, it is very important to consider promoting smart public policies to encourage energy efficiency that will not overburden european employers with regulations that will reduce their ability to compete in the global market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the energy star programme contributes to the achievement of the energy efficiency objectives of the member states and the union. the energy star programme has contributed significantly to increased energy efficiency, which has resulted in reduced electricity consumption of office equipment. the programme also provides a flexible and dynamic framework adapted to fast-changing products such as those in the ict sector. the proposal for a regulation will strengthen the provisions on public procurement, as a large proportion of office equipment manufacturers participate in public tenders in member states other than those in which they are established. last but not least, i believe that by applying the provisions of the regulation substantial reductions in electricity bills can be achieved.
in writing. − i believe that the objectives for improving energy efficiency must be respected, given the need to achieve a high level of consumer and environmental protection, which must be achieved at european union level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of amending the regulation on a community energy-efficiency labelling programme for office equipment. it lays down rules for the union's energy-efficiency labelling programme for office equipment, the energy star programme, which contributes to the achievement of the energy efficiency targets of the member states and the union. existing or new voluntary energy-efficiency labelling schemes for office equipment in member states may coexist with the energy star programme. the commission or the member states may subject products to which the provisions of this regulation apply and which are placed on the union market to tests to verify their compliance with the requirements of this regulation. the commission shall establish a european union 'energy star office' (eueb), which shall review the implementation of the 'energy star' programme in the union and provide advice and assistance to the commission, as appropriate. the commission shall assess the effectiveness of the 'energy star' programme in improving the energy efficiency of office equipment, creating new jobs and creating new market opportunities for manufacturers and shall examine alternative policy options, such as those provided for in union legislation.
in writing. − the european union was built around the principle of the common market. although we have made a great deal of progress in this direction, it must be said that there are a number of sectors where we still face significant difficulties. the digital single market is one such sector. there are still barriers to online transactions between eu member states. over 40% of europeans buy goods online, but less than 10% buy from traders operating in other eu countries. this is all the more difficult in the face of the massive growth of online commerce worldwide, as evidenced by the success of companies such as amazon and ebay. moreover, there is a worrying disproportion within member states of households with no access to the internet or with access only to very slow connections, and i am not only talking about the case of romania, where the fact that 50% of households do not have access to the internet can explain the weak development of online commerce, but also about the situation in more developed countries such as spain or italy, where 30% of the population has never used the internet, or the case of poland, where 40% of the population has access to low-speed connections. addressing this issue should be one of the priorities of the european parliament in the coming period.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the completion of the digital single market is essential to transform europe into a competitive and dynamic economy. the impact of the internet-based economy has been significant in recent years. it is well known that online services and electronic commerce bring major benefits to both citizens and businesses. the online sector is a good source of jobs and facilitates economic growth. however, the digital single market in europe has not yet reached its full potential. and the digital economy continues to offer opportunities to be exploited. but to take full advantage of all the possibilities, barriers must be removed. the expansion of the single market to a digital market would provide the necessary boost to the economy and allow europe to emerge from the financial crisis stronger. and in this context, building trust and ensuring transparency is essential.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on completing the digital single market, as it will increase europe's competitiveness in the global market. another positive aspect of this report is the recommendation to make it easier for smes to access european and international markets by reducing red tape and creating a digital single market with a set of rules, rather than the 27 that currently exist. in the future, we must also ensure that people's trust in the digital single market is increased, because trust is the key to boosting online trade. therefore, further steps need to be taken to ensure transparency, security and protection of the rights of online marketplace users.
in writing. − i consider it of the utmost importance to maintain the link between the e-commerce directive and the internal market information system.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on completing the digital single market as i believe that is an important strategy to define a coherent framework for building trust in the digital single market. a genuine digital single market would generate new types of growth: this communication constitutes a new contribution to the implementation of the digital agenda, since it establishes an action plan for the development of online services and, through the annual growth survey, offers a response to the request from the european council to submit a roadmap to achieve a digital single market by 2015. this communication would strengthen and facilitate the development of information and communication structures in the context of the connecting europe facility, preparing guidelines for the preparation of broadband infrastructure projects in the context of the european cohesion fund, and drafting guidelines for smart specialisation strategies which must be implemented in order to benefit from regional funding. moreover, through dialogue with the stakeholders, we would be able to give to consumers access to transparent and reliable information allowing them to compare more easily the prices, the quality and the sustainability of goods and services.
in writing. − i voted for the report on the completion of the digital single market because a digital single market where services can circulate freely in a market of 500 million consumers is a key driver for competitiveness and economic growth, providing high-skilled jobs and facilitating eu convergence towards a knowledge-based economy. i stress the importance of developing a european 'cloud computing' strategy, given its potential for competitiveness, growth and job creation in the eu. the 'cloud computing' area represents an opportunity for the european it sector, especially smes, to develop and take leadership positions in areas such as outsourcing, new digital services and data centres. i welcome the commission's plans to promote public and private investment in telecommunications networks under the connecting europe facility and stress the importance of the sustained launch of the trans-european digital network for economic growth and competitiveness in the eu. i call on the commission and the member states to examine the possibilities for simplifying and standardising vat rules in the context of cross-border online transactions. taking into account consumer concerns about the security and safety of online transactions, we welcome the new proposal for a regulation on the protection of personal data, which increases legal certainty and simplifies the existing legislative framework.
in writing. - small and medium-sized enterprises are and have always been the engine of any dynamic economy. in any country, anywhere in the world, small and medium-sized enterprises together make a significant contribution to economic development in terms of turnover and number of employees. their role has been analyzed and recognized as extremely important. often, including in the european union, this sector is not sufficiently supported, especially in terms of funding. as mentioned in this report, in the european union, smes account for 75% of private sector jobs. however, only 25% of them also operate outside the borders of the national states in which they were formed and only 13% are active in markets outside the european union. it is important that both national and european authorities make efforts to support and develop smes as an integral part of overcoming the effects of the economic crisis and achieving the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because smes represent the vast majority of all companies and are also the main source of employment in the union. i believe that their presence on the international market should be better supported and encouraged. and in this respect, the potential of the sector must be better exploited. that way, we can get the economy back on track. at present, smes face difficulties and obstacles that prevent them from realising their full potential. i believe that support for smes must take account of the specific needs of each business. i would also like to stress that smes can make a major contribution to the promotion and expansion of the vocational training system. and in this way, youth unemployment could be substantially reduced.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on trade and investment finance for smes in the eu, as smes are at the heart of the eu economy, accounting for 85% of net job growth between 2002 and 2010 and more than two thirds of total private sector employment. in the current global economic context, europe needs to become more competitive, and one of the ways to do this is by internationalising smes. we must therefore ensure an environment conducive to sme development by facilitating access to capital, up-to-date information on export opportunities and reducing red tape. for successful internationalisation, smes need access to detailed market information, which can range from the political situation of the third country, to market research on socioeconomic indicators, labour legislation or trade finance opportunities.
in writing. − as only 10% of micro-enterprises use the more than 300 public support programmes that are already available, and smes have difficulties in identifying and benefiting from the assistance currently available, i believe that an inventory exercise is necessary first of all to identify existing and missing support programmes, both at national and union level.
in writing. − i voted in favour on ‘financing sme trade and investment: facilitated access to credit in support’. this report focuses on small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) that are interested in exporting, importing and investing beyond the eu single market. eu smes account for 75% of jobs in the private sector and, over the past five years, have contributed to the creation of around 80% of all new jobs. i believe that is very important to strengthen their role in the international market giving them the opportunity to be protagonist in this new global market. several factors can be involved to explain the reasons for the lack of sme internationalisation. i believe is very important to suggest concrete remedies to overcome them with the view of enabling eu smes to improve their competitiveness worldwide, all of which is part of the new eu trade and investment policy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on trade and investment finance for smes in the eu: facilitating access to credit to support internationalisation. however, eurostat data show that total foreign direct investment by the eu-27 declined by 30% in 2008, by a further 28% in 2009 and by 62% again in 2010. the reluctance of european smes to develop their international activities is mainly due to a lack of analysis or pre-analysis of export opportunities. we urge the commission and the member states to promote the participation of smes and micro-enterprises in global markets by adopting appropriate measures to enable their internationalisation and, in particular, their subsequent integration into the eu single market, including easier access to capital and regularly updated information on business opportunities abroad. we support the creation of a network, as part of a digital platform, bringing together sme help centres, chambers of commerce, export credit agencies and trade associations at national level, and we call on the commission to provide eu businesses with accurate, timely and easy-to-use information, based on the 'one-stop-shop' principle.
in writing. − technological progress is one of the engines of integration and security, as the recent history of the european continent and the european union project has shown. but the progress of society is not just the emergence of specific technologies, but also the defense of the inalienable rights of the citizens of the world. freedom online is an integral part of the development of the european union and a concrete example of the union's strong commitment to democratic values. in a society as interdependent as ours, it is important to demonstrate the need to defend these principles both inside and outside the european union. the digital freedom strategy is the instrument through which the union can project its values and principles, acting as a true global agent of change. shaping a more meaningful dimension of the european union in world politics can be achieved by implementing this digital freedom strategy. i supported the adoption of this report.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because human rights must be protected and promoted by the european union, both offline and online. and neutrality is a key principle for an open internet, which guarantees competition and transparency. i believe that access to the internet must become a fundamental right, both in the union and in third countries. however, there are certain areas where regulation is needed to cope with technological developments and to ensure the security of states. but it must be done with respect for democratic principles and freedom of expression. in many third countries, internet censorship affects both the fundamental rights and commercial interests of consumers. i believe that the union, through its external action, must discourage such practices.
in writing. − the internet is an essential element for access to information, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, but also for economic, social, political and cultural development. i therefore support and encourage the european union special representative for human rights to include digital freedoms and the 'no disconnect' strategy among his top priorities.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of the report on digital freedom strategy in eu foreign policy as i believe that the access to the internet is a fundamental right for all the citizens of the world. in a globally connected world the eu should have a strategy to deal with new technologies in its external actions. there are several areas in this digital world in which it is essential that the eu acts as a global player and leverages its economic and political weight. though overregulation would rather hurt than help the potential of the open internet, in some areas rules need to be updated to match the revolutionary impact of technological developments with adequate democratic oversight. our digital freedoms are essential rights and are indispensable for traditional human rights such as freedom of expression and freedom of assembly, and also for ensuring transparency and accountability in public life. the eu should take the lead in globally promoting and protecting digital freedoms. besides being the world’s largest trade block the eu is also a community of values, which should also be the core of all our external actions.
in writing. − as the european digital agenda aims to make europe a global centre for smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, i believe that the european union must make further efforts in international negotiations to draw up rules on digital freedom and behaviour in cyberspace. we need to focus our actions on creating favourable conditions for the export of digital goods and services, on reducing global tariff barriers and on improving the protection of intellectual property rights. moreover, only by perfectly aligning our trade, foreign and security policies will we be able to express our views firmly and guarantee the long-term protection of the european union's interests globally.
in writing. − i voted for the report 'a digital freedom strategy in eu foreign policy' because technological advances are enabling people around the world to use new information and communication technologies (icts) and connect to the internet, thus fostering revolutionary changes in societies, the functioning of democracy, governance, the economy, business, the media, development and trade. uncensored access to the open internet, mobile phones and ict have had a real impact on human rights and fundamental freedoms, exerting a progressive effect by extending the scope of freedom of expression, access to information, the right to privacy and freedom of assembly worldwide. the union's development and human rights policies require the integration of icts and the closing of the digital divide, by providing basic technological infrastructures, facilitating access to knowledge and information and promoting digital skills worldwide. the use of ict and in particular social media will help to strengthen direct democracy among eu and third country citizens by creating social platforms for policymaking. as the internet has become a public space as well as a marketplace for which the free flow of information and access to ict are indispensable, we believe that digital freedoms and free trade must be promoted and protected simultaneously.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the investment policy of the member states needs to be harmonised at european level. the union's macro-financial assistance should be targeted at the following specific objectives: the commission must gradually replace existing agreements with new ones that provide an optimal system of investment protection. due to the nature of foreign direct investment, there is a need to ensure a high level of legal certainty during the transition period. in this respect, i support the commission's approach based on coexistence, which, however, must not create obstacles to the development of an investment policy at union level. it is essential that bilateral treaties remain in force and that member states are able to conclude or open new negotiations. and setting a timetable for the transition from the bilateral treaties of the member states to the international treaties of the european union is the best option.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the council's first reading position with a view to adopting the regulation laying down transitional provisions for bilateral investment agreements concluded between member states and third countries. the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) confers on the european union exclusive competence in the field of foreign direct investment, within the framework of trade policy. thus, only the union can legislate and adopt legally binding acts in an area in which it has been granted exclusive competence. in the absence of an explicit transitional regime in the treaty clarifying the status of agreements concluded by member states, this proposal for a council and parliament regulation will authorize the maintenance of all investment agreements currently in force between member states and third countries. this proposal provides an explicit guarantee of legal certainty as regards the conditions to which investors are subject. the proposal maintains the status quo and provides for a transitional solution, authorising the maintenance in force of bilateral investment agreements concluded between member states and third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation as the €46 million macro-financial assistance made available to georgia will contribute to the economic stabilisation of the country and to meeting its balance of payments needs identified in the current imf programme. georgia is one of the most important strategic partners of the european union and romania, and its economic stability is in the interest of all parties. also, despite recent worrying developments, georgia continues to be a model of democracy for the states in the region, and its commitment to continuing democratic reforms must be underpinned by ensuring the country's economic stability. the commission will also need to monitor closely signals of sanctions and pressure on former members of the georgian government. in order to obtain other forms of macro-financial assistance in the future, the georgian government must demonstrate its commitment to democratic values and the rule of law.
in writing. − the commission proposes further macro-financial assistance for georgia amounting to eur 46 million. this is the second of the two mfas pledged by the eu during the 2008 international donors’ conference. the commission evaluated the current state of the georgian economy and concluded that georgia still needs financial assistance, hence the current package. i would like to vote in favour of this mfa, as did most of my colleagues in the international trade committee. i also hope the conciliation procedure will soon start between parliament and the council concerning the disagreement over comitology. i would like to urge all the negotiators to find a speedy solution to this procedural disagreement, so that we can proceed further with the mfa and allow the eu to deliver much needed help to the people of georgia.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the council's position at first reading with a view to adopting the decision of the european parliament and of the council to grant additional macro-financial assistance to georgia. in 2006, the european community and georgia agreed on an action plan under the european neighbourhood policy, which identifies the medium-term priorities of eu-georgia relations. in 2010, the union and georgia launched negotiations for an association agreement to replace the existing partnership and cooperation agreement. the commission shall ensure that the union's macro-financial assistance is managed in accordance with the principles and objectives of the partnership and cooperation agreement between the eu and georgia. the union's macro-financial assistance to georgia should not only complement the programmes and resources of the imf and the world bank, but also ensure the added value of the union's involvement. at the request of georgia and if circumstances permit an improvement in the interest rate of the loan, the commission may refinance all or part of the initial loan or restructure the related financial conditions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this recommendation because i believe that the extension of the european maritime safety agency (emsa) is an amendment to the constituent regulation that will improve the management of the maritime space. the emsa is already recognised as a successful agency and the additional tasks set out in this recommendation will make a significant contribution to improving environmental disaster management and combating maritime piracy. the increased role of the agency in training seafarers will also increase the attractiveness of jobs in the maritime sector. this is a catalyst for employment growth, which is crucial in the context of the current economic and financial crisis. in this context too, i strongly support the promotion of the european maritime area without borders. emsa should play its role as effectively as possible in this respect, in order to reduce controls and formalities at sea ports. this will increase trade in goods and encourage economic operators to move towards greener modes of transport.
in writing. − this is the fourth time now that we are modifying the european maritime safety agency’s founding regulation. i welcome the reinforcement of the agency’s responsibilities in terms of preventing and tackling environmental disasters. deepwater horizon’s catastrophic oil spill in the gulf of mexico or the gas leakage on the elgin-franklin platform in the north sea last march prove that monitoring the impact of oil pollution from offshore installations is essential. the promotion of a european maritime space without barriers and of the emaritime initiative is another positive aspect of the present recommendation. sailing from a member state to another must be as easy as driving from a member state to another. moreover this will avoid distorting competition in favour of the less environmentally-friendly mode.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending the regulation establishing a european maritime safety agency (emsa). emsa contributes to measures taken for maritime safety and security and the prevention of marine pollution from ships, including by monitoring and evaluating the application of relevant eu legislation. much of its work consists of advising the commission and/or the member states. the revised emsa regulation will extend the agency's remit to prevent and manage environmental disasters such as oil spills. the agency will use the cleanseanet information system to monitor the impact of oil pollution from offshore installations. the agency will also work to improve coordination between national authorities to strengthen prevention methods, encourage best practice and speed up the response to disasters. at the request of parliament, the agency will also contribute to the fight against maritime piracy. parliament called for emsa to have a stronger role in improving the training of seafarers. increasing the attractiveness of maritime jobs for eu citizens is a long-term objective. the revised regulation allows the agency to facilitate the exchange of good practice in training and education to meet the current and future demand for highly qualified seafarers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because, so far, the absence of a community patent has affected european smes the most. the costs of patent licensing in several countries, as well as the costs of patent translation, were hindering innovation. compared with competitors in the united states and japan, european companies have to pay up to three times more for patent registration procedures in a single member state. i believe that in the current economic context, smes are the main engines of growth and innovation and they must be supported. i therefore believe that the adoption of a community patent will contribute to deepening the single market and increasing the union's global competitiveness. if europe is to be at the forefront of innovation, unitary patent protection at union level is indispensable.
in writing. − after fourteen years of debate, the european union will finally have a unitary patent system, which will allow small businesses in particular to eliminate a host of red tape and extra costs. the unitary patent will bring benefits to these enterprises, whose innovations will be protected more effectively and more easily, but also to consumers. businesses will be able to grow and open up their services to new markets, and consumers will have access to these services regardless of the member state in which they live. i therefore welcome the adoption of the report and believe that further action is needed to remove unnecessary bureaucratic measures from the burden of small and medium-sized firms in the eu.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a regulation implementing enhanced cooperation in the area of the creation of unitary patent protection, as unitary patent protection will encourage scientific and technical progress and the proper functioning of the internal market through easier, less costly and legally secure access to the patent system. the main feature of a european patent with unitary effect is its unitary character, i.e. it provides uniform protection and has the same effect in all participating member states. unitary protection should be available to holders of european patents both in the participating member states and in other states, irrespective of their nationality, residence or place of establishment. as an object of property, a european patent with unitary effect shall be deemed, in its entirety and in all the participating member states in which it has unitary effect, to be a national patent granted by the participating member state determined in accordance with specific criteria such as the residence, principal place of business or place of business of the applicant. a european patent with unitary effect may be licensed for the whole or part of the territory of the participating member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the objective of creating unitary patent protection in the european union has been pursued for a very long time. until now, the cost of validating a patent in half the member states was 10 times higher than in the united states or japan. this was mainly due to translation costs. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry suffered material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation. the introduction of machine translation into the languages of the european patent office will considerably reduce registration costs. and ensuring a single protection will boost innovation among european entrepreneurs. at the same time, smes or natural persons who will obtain european patents should benefit from additional reimbursement of translation costs. the presence of european smes on the international market could thus be better supported and encouraged.
in writing. - i voted for amendments nos 22, 23, 25, 28, 29 and 31 because i believe that there should be legal value for automatic translations as well.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a council regulation implementing enhanced cooperation in the field of the creation of unitary patent protection as regards the provisions applicable to translation. i voted for amendments 3 and 7 which require that, once the automatic translation of patent applications and patent descriptions is available in all the languages of the union, in accordance with article 6 (3), it be made available online and free of charge, upon publication of the patent application and the granted patent. i also voted in favour of amendments nos 28, 29 and 31, which require that translations of the patent file into an official language of the participating member states be a translation with legal effect. i regret that the text of the translations provided for in article 6 (2) will have no legal value, and that they are for information only. i voted in favour of amendment no 23, which provides that applicants whose language is not one of the official languages of the european patent office should be able to submit their patent applications and any other procedural documents to the european patent office in any of the official languages of the union.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the creation of a single patent court is one of the conditions for the functioning of the community patent system. the court will improve the application of patents in the union, providing legal certainty and leading to the strengthening of the single market. it will also help to reduce the cost of dispute resolution. and the parties will no longer have to go to courts in different countries in parallel. in particular for smes, it is essential that the judicial system established is efficient and delivers quality judgments. the tribunal should also be composed of judges who are legally and technically qualified and who enjoy full independence. it is also important that the parties are represented by lawyers who have the necessary experience in both patent law and procedural law.
in writing. − i believe that the unified patent court must fully respect and apply union law, in cooperation with the court of justice of the european union, just like any other national court.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the court system for patent disputes as effective protection by unitary patent can only be ensured by a functioning system for the settlement of patent disputes. the priority of the unified patent court should be to strengthen legal certainty and improve patent enforcement, while balancing the interests of rightholders and stakeholders. the court of first instance and the court of appeal must be multinational and the local divisions must be multinational as soon as possible. the tribunal must be composed of judges with legal and technical qualifications and the period for the intensive training and preparation of judges must be five years. there should be a certain set of procedural rules applicable to proceedings before all the divisions and courts of the general court. the language of proceedings before local or regional divisions shall be the official language of the contracting member state in whose territory the division is situated or the official language designated by the contracting member states belonging to the same regional division. the decisions of the general court shall be based on union law, the agreement, the european patent convention (epc) and national legislation adopted pursuant to the epc, the provisions of international agreements applicable to patents and binding on all contracting member states.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that through the agreement the union will be able to open up its market even more and at the same time increase its exports to the region. in this context, i would like to stress the importance of the safeguard clause in the liberalisation of trade in agricultural products. it is a safety net in the event that markets are faced with certain disruptions as a result of the signing of bilateral agreements. i also draw attention to the monitoring and reporting arrangements. they are essential for the correct application of this regulation. moreover, they have an even greater impact on products such as bananas. another important aspect concerns social and environmental standards, which must be fully respected in the implementation of the agreement.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas provided for in the eu-central america association agreement. where a product originating in a central american country is imported in such quantities as to cause serious deterioration in the economic situation of one or more of the outermost regions of the union, a safeguard measure may be imposed. it is necessary to establish the most appropriate arrangements to ensure the effective application of certain provisions of the agreement relating to the bilateral safeguard clause and the application of the stabilisation mechanism for bananas, which have been agreed with central america. the challenges in central america with regard to human rights, social rights, labour rights and environmental rights require a close dialogue between the commission and civil society organisations in the union. the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas provided for in the agreement requires uniform conditions for the adoption of safeguard measures, for the imposition of prior surveillance measures, for the termination of an investigation without imposition of measures, and for the temporary suspension of preferential customs duties established under the stabilisation mechanism for bananas that has been agreed with central america.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the association agreement between the european union and central america is the first bi-regional agreement signed since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. it is further evidence of the importance the union attaches to the region. that is why i too would like to welcome this important step in the relationship between the union and central america. however, for the association agreement to have the desired effect, more political commitment is needed from some central american countries. respect for democratic principles, human rights and the rule of law must be central elements of the agreement. and monitoring compliance is crucial for the agreement to produce mutual benefits. the agreement should also focus on strengthening the fight against poverty and exclusion and on achieving the millennium development goals.
in writing. − i voted in favour of an association between the european union and central america, as developing relations with latin america is mutually beneficial and offers advantages to all eu member states. this agreement sets a major precedent, being the first bi-regional association agreement signed by the eu since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. for the development of the eu-latin america partnership to be mutually beneficial and win-win, it is essential that respect for democracy, the rule of law and all human rights be considered a key element of the political dialogue. we underline the commitment of both regions to respect geographical indications and intellectual property rights in line with international standards. the agreement concluded contains three main pillars: political dialogue, cooperation and trade. i support the proposed measures, such as: the organisation of a bi-regional forum for dialogue with civil society; the creation of competitive and value-added production units; the establishment of regional trade academies, both in the latin american regions and in the eu member states; the organisation of trade fairs in both regions, to provide opportunities for networking and cooperation agreements, especially between smes.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the application of the bilateral safeguard clause and the stabilisation mechanism for bananas in the trade agreement between the eu and the republic of colombia/republic of peru. pursuant to this regulation, a safeguard measure may be imposed where a product originating in colombia or peru, as a result of tariff concessions in the agreement in respect of that product, is imported into the union in such quantities, in absolute terms or relative to union production, and under such conditions as to cause serious injury to the union industry. the banana sector is particularly vulnerable, given the limited capacity of these regions to diversify, due to their natural characteristics. therefore, the establishment of effective mechanisms to address preferential imports from the third countries concerned is indispensable to ensure that union banana production is maintained at optimum conditions, as this sector is crucial for employment in certain areas, in particular in the outermost regions. where there is a concentrated increase in imports in one or more of the outermost regions of the union or in one or more member states, the commission should be able to introduce prior surveillance measures.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the trade agreement with peru and colombia is part of a long-standing relationship between the european union and the andean community. unfortunately, it has not been possible to reach such an agreement with the entire community, but i hope that in the future other countries in the region will join in. first, it is useful that a clause on respect for fundamental human rights is included in the text of the agreement. in my view, regardless of the union's partners, such a clause should be included in all agreements the union signs with third countries. in this way, we can encourage other countries to adopt democratic standards similar to those of the union. the agreement will also facilitate access to the colombian and peruvian markets for traditional eu export sectors such as the automotive industry. the commission notes that the romanian authorities have not provided any evidence that the aid is compatible with the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the trade agreement with the republic of peru and colombia, considering that it represents a step towards a privileged relationship with latin america. the agreement is also among the first concluded by the union to include provisions on human rights, as colombia remains the country with the highest number of murders of trade unionists. i therefore hope that this agreement will also be a hand out to colombia and peru to make even more significant progress in the field of human rights.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the draft council decision on the conclusion of the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, of the one part, and colombia and peru, of the other part, to be referred back to parliament's special committee. in january 2009, negotiations were launched with colombia and peru, which were successfully concluded in may 2010. the agreement between colombia and peru was signed on june 26, 2012, but it includes a clause that allows other countries of the andean community to join. i consider it necessary to establish the most appropriate arrangements to ensure the effective application of certain provisions of the agreement relating to the bilateral safeguard clause and the application of the stabilisation mechanism for bananas, which has been agreed with colombia and peru. the commission will attach particular importance to the effective implementation of the trade and sustainable development commitments in the agreement, taking into account the specific information provided by the competent monitoring bodies of the core conventions of the international labour organisation and of the multilateral environmental agreements.
in writing. − there is a need for increased attention at union level to the specificities of diseases affecting women in particular, especially the elderly, whose numbers are increasing. i believe that to fully understand the characteristics of diseases in women, it is necessary that clinical research takes into account the gender dimension, which can lead to better prevention and treatment. i support the need for continued awareness-raising campaigns, especially for older women, focusing on gender- and age-specific recommendations on proper nutrition and the importance of physical activity, as these can help prevent decline and reduce the incidence of many diseases.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the union's population is currently facing a progressive ageing process. older people should have the right to lead a dignified and active life. furthermore, they should not face any obstacles to their social integration. and in this regard, access to quality care and healthcare is essential. women undergo major changes as they age, both physically and mentally. at the same time, they face more risks and more challenges. i believe that health should be promoted throughout life. thus, physical activity and healthy eating should be a constant part of everyone's life. in the context of the european year for active ageing, prevention and information among citizens play a significant role.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because, although women's life expectancy is higher than men's, they are less healthy as they age. so there are many diseases that are more common in older women, such as cardiovascular disease, various cancers, depression, dementia, or fractures caused by osteoporosis. i also believe that a healthy lifestyle throughout the life cycle needs to be promoted, and that this can be done through a strategy focused on prevention and informing the ordinary citizen, involving decision-makers at all levels, the press and other relevant organisations.
in writing. − i believe that european policies in this area should support initiatives aimed at improving disease prevention and health promotion, and maintaining the autonomy of older people.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the prevention of age-related diseases affecting women. the eu promotes human dignity and recognises the right of everyone to have access to preventive healthcare and medical care. the economic situation of women, due to gender imbalances in wages, pensions and other incomes, makes them particularly vulnerable to poverty. older women have scarce financial resources for the care and medical treatment they need. we invite the commission to continue to support awareness-raising campaigns targeting older women in particular and focusing on gender- and age-specific recommendations on proper nutrition and the importance of physical activity, as these can help prevent decline and reduce the incidence of cardiovascular and circulatory diseases, osteoporosis and certain cancers. we regret that 97% of health budgets are devoted to treatment and only 3% to prevention, as the costs of treating and managing noncommunicable diseases rise due to the wider unavailability of diagnostic tools and treatments. we call on member states to increase health budgets to include preventive activities.
in writing. − one of the major challenges we face globally is the proliferation of drug-resistant microbes, caused by factors such as the inappropriate or even excessive use of antibiotics in human and veterinary medicine or the slow pace of innovation in the field. statistics show that the population is increasingly feeling the effects of this phenomenon, with some 25 000 deaths in the eu each year directly linked to the resistance that bacteria have developed to antimicrobials currently on the market. european health systems are also struggling, with the additional costs of increasing infections from such bacteria becoming a burden. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that an articulated approach is needed at european level, with particular emphasis on the responsible use of antimicrobials in human and veterinary medicine and on changing attitudes towards their use, through better information to citizens on the serious consequences of inappropriate use of antibiotics.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the increase in antimicrobial resistance is a particularly complex issue. so far, antimicrobials have led to significant reductions in mortality rates. i believe that they must be maintained and used responsibly. increased efforts are needed to control their use in medicine. moreover, caution is needed in both human and veterinary medicine. they also point to the need for more effective measures to prevent the development of drug resistance. and to do that, organisms need to be monitored more closely, and infections need to be controlled more closely. i also believe that surveillance is essential throughout europe. and international cooperation in this area should be further encouraged.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance (amr) is a global problem, with increasing seriousness and urgency. each year, 25 000 patients die in the eu from infections caused by drug-resistant bacteria, at a cost of over €1.5 billion. without action and decisive action today, we will be back in the pre-antibiotic era in the future. a global commitment by all decision-makers at all levels is needed to act swiftly and responsibly to tackle amr, with a focus on preventing microbial infections and their spread, developing new antimicrobials or treatment alternatives, improving monitoring and surveillance in human and veterinary medicine, research and innovation, communication, education and training. the measures recommended in the commission's strategic action plan on amr should be implemented as soon as possible. member states should review their national amr strategies in line with the council recommendation on the prudent use of antimicrobials and commit to the full and timely implementation of these strategies. special attention should be paid to educating and raising awareness among the general public and the specialist community (pharmacists, doctors, etc.) on the prudent and responsible use of antimicrobials.
in writing. − as the development of drug resistance is an inevitable consequence of antimicrobial treatment and as several member states do not have a strong legal framework to approve and support the rational use of medicines, i believe that this situation should be regulated as a matter of urgency in line with european policies in this field.
in writing. − the approval of the report on the threat posed by antibiotic resistance is an important step towards the healthy development of european agriculture, in the interests of farmers and consumers. the main aim of a farmer should be to raise animals in a healthy and productive way and to ensure their welfare. we cannot claim to achieve this goal when increased resistance to antimicrobials commonly used in veterinary medicine leads to production losses and increases in costs and occupational risks for farmers. the appropriate use of antimicrobials is a necessary tool that must be carefully monitored.
in writing. - i voted for the report on the microbial challenge the growing threats posed by antimicrobial resistance. i believe that there is a need to educate and raise awareness among those involved in the use of antimicrobials, including policy makers, healthcare professionals and the general public, in order to drive the necessary behavioural changes in prescribing physicians, distributors and citizens. i would stress that there are substantial differences between member states in the way antibiotics are used and distributed. calls on the commission to assess and monitor the implementation of eu antimicrobial legislation at member state level, in particular with regard to the use of prescription-only antibiotics in the human and veterinary health sectors and the prohibition of the use of antimicrobials as growth factors in animal feed. we ask the commission, in its assessment of the implementation of the current antimicrobial resistance (amr) action plan, to report on the progress made by member states on the key international commitments on amr.
in writing. i welcome the adoption of the 2013 budget and of amending budget no 6/2012, both of which represent a victory for parliament. it is imperative to highlight the added value that the european budget brings to the union and its citizens. research programmes, programmes supporting innovation, programmes in education (erasmus) and major infrastructure projects will receive the financial support needed to continue. the european union is feeling the effects of the crisis, so we need to guarantee financial stability for all european citizens. the union budget is the most important instrument we can use in this direction. the european union needs to invest heavily in education, innovation and entrepreneurship. in this way, we will be able to further stimulate economic growth and job creation in europe.
i would like to welcome the regulations on the introduction of noise operating restrictions at union airports and the regulation on the allocation of slots at union airports. as regards the noise regulation, i believe that a balance must be struck between health and economic considerations when restrictions are imposed. as regards ground handling, i would stress the importance of improving this aspect in order to increase the union's capacity in this area and to stimulate competition. the union needs capacity building to remain globally competitive, but market liberalisation must not come at the expense of workers' social conditions. member states should ensure that the personnel of undertakings providing ground handling services have an adequate level of social protection and working conditions, including in the case of subcontracting and service contracts. if shortcomings in this protection or breaches of the applicable rules are found, the accreditation of the service providers concerned may be suspended, withdrawn or withheld until the appropriate standard is again reached. member states shall apply and monitor mandatory european minimum standards for the training and qualification of personnel, if they are developed, in order to ensure the highest possible safety standard at union level. we support the introduction of minimum standards for airport services, which will improve the quality of services and the functioning of airports.
i am pleased with the attention paid to airports and their operation, especially in terms of passenger services. i take advantage of this debate and of the presence of the commissioner to refer to the new proposal on state aid rules for airports. to provide quality services at airports, we must first have airports, and the threshold for operational aid, proposed at 200 000 passengers, is far too low. the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2012 and that the agreement was signed on 27 june 2012. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between the airlines and ryanair on 1 january 2009 was signed on behalf of ryanair and the airlines on 1 january 2010. i repeat, if we want to have quality services at airports, we must also think about the future of airports.
a few years ago, it seemed utopian to talk about introducing such a tax in the european union. it is now becoming a reality, it is true, for only eleven member states, but for this outcome we must congratulate both the council and the commission. it's an act of social justice, that financial institutions should be more involved in the formation of public revenues. but precisely because not all the member states wanted to participate in the introduction of this financial transaction tax, we cannot achieve any other essential objective that we have set ourselves so many times, namely that part of the revenue generated by this tax on some financial transactions should become permanent revenue for the budget of the european union. that is why we have such difficulties every time we have to discuss the budget of the european union, because, unfortunately, this budget does not have sufficient revenue of its own, and each country makes entirely different calculations. i hope we will continue our efforts to achieve this result.
the financial sector played a major role in triggering the recent financial and economic crisis, while the costs were borne by public administrations and european citizens. i believe it is important that the financial sector contributes equitably and substantially to the costs of the crisis and i call for it to be taxed fairly in the future compared to other sectors. they also support the discouragement of excessive risky activities undertaken by financial institutions. it is regrettable that there are fundamental differences of opinion on the need to establish a common system of financial transaction tax at union level and that the principle of a harmonised financial transaction tax will not enjoy unanimous support within the council for the foreseeable future. i congratulate the eleven member states on their decision to establish enhanced cooperation with each other in the field of establishing a common system of financial transaction tax. i congratulate the rapporteur and assure her of our support.
in writing. eleven eu countries recently decided to coordinate their implementation of the financial transaction tax through the enhanced cooperation procedure. i welcome this initiative and hope that it will be imitated as soon as possible by other eu members. citizens cannot endlessly pay the price of an economic and financial crisis that they did not cause. it is time for a fairer tax system, whereby banks can contribute to the effort to get out of the difficult situation in which the european continent finds itself today. even if it represents a modest percentage of the transactions carried out, this fee will reduce the volatility observed in the financial markets, discouraging short-term transactions. it will also bring a significant amount of money into budgets, which could be used to invest in research, energy efficiency, health or education, contributing to economic growth.
many european citizens share concerns about the conditions under which animals are transported. it is undoubtedly a subject that is provoking and will provoke heated debate. we all want humane conditions for the transport of these animals, but the discussion should be about the conditions under which the animals are transported, and not just about setting unfounded time limits. but i have another concern: once again i see that we are about to demand new rules from the europeans, as long as we allow the importation into the union of meat from animals that have been tortured in every possible way. we should also be concerned about setting up local slaughterhouses, which will completely eliminate the discussion about transporting animals, and i hope that the future european agricultural policy will cover this financially.
in writing. congratulations to mr wojciechowski, who, with this report, offers many solutions aimed at ensuring the protection and welfare of animals, tackles the transport of animals at union level, but also the problems raised by this chapter in the framework of european policies. it is well known that animal health implies animal welfare, a certain minimum biological comfort, without which it is not possible to fully express vitality, including natural behaviour, appropriate to changes in the environment. i therefore believe that effective and uniform implementation of existing eu legislation on the transport of animals must be maintained in all member states at eu level and i also believe that better enforcement is essential to ensure the effectiveness and functioning of existing legislation in order to improve transport conditions and avoid distortion of competition in eu member states.
in writing. the european union legislates but often the legislation is not well implemented in the member states. this was also the case with the transport of animals. another european regulation has led to the closure of a number of slaughterhouses, which has resulted in the transport of animals for slaughter over long distances. it is clear that the transport of animals for slaughter over very long distances must be limited, but other aspects are also important, such as transport conditions, but also the geographical specificities of certain member states and, last but not least, the type of animal transported. in conclusion, i would like to ask the commission to ensure that when it is drafting legislation, it looks at the big picture and the consequences that that legislation may have, so that we do not face situations like the present one.
mediation can ensure cost-effective and rapid out-of-court settlement of civil and commercial disputes through procedures tailored to the needs of the parties. member states should encourage the provision of information on how to contact mediators and organisations providing mediation services to the general public, in particular on the internet. confidentiality in the mediation process is important and therefore a minimum degree of compatibility of the rules of civil procedure should be ensured as regards how to ensure the confidentiality of mediation. commissioner, does the commission intend to present an interim report before 2016 on the implementation of directive 52/2008? does the commission envisage establishing common standards at union level and extending to all member states training programmes for access to the profession of mediator, with a view to promoting better quality mediation and ensuring high standards of training and accreditation in the european union?
on behalf of the alde group. the development of mediation in civil and commercial matters, as well as other mechanisms for out-of-court dispute resolution, represents a real opportunity both for the parties involved and for the judicial system, especially in many of the countries where it is overburdened. the mediation directive is a very useful instrument and i think it is absolutely essential that it is implemented as correctly as possible in order to achieve its objective. if the mediation directive has not so far achieved its objective in terms of the proportion of disputes that are mediated compared to the number of cases that reach the courts, i believe that this is largely due to the lack of information on mediation. even if the directive imposes an obligation to inform the general public about the opportunity to use mediation, i do not think that this provision is being exploited optimally. citizens do not take mediation into account because they simply do not know that it exists, do not know what it is, and do not know who to contact to initiate such a procedure. in the area of trade, the new directive on alternative dispute resolution for consumer disputes, which is being debated in parliament, will certainly bring improvements, as traders will be obliged to provide the general public with information on mediation and other alternative mechanisms. however, this directive has a limited purpose, which is why i believe that both the commission and the member states should promote mediation more actively, especially in cross-border and family law disputes. it is not - and never has been - a question of developing a system parallel to the judicial system; mediation must remain an opportunity and we must find a balance between mediation and judicial proceedings. i do not know whether it is indispensable to set percentage targets for cases under mediation. we must do everything we can to develop a culture of mediation and alternative dispute resolution, which is cheaper and faster than judicial procedures, and which is clearly an advantage for citizens.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i welcome the debate in the european parliament on the situation of fundamental rights. you know that when i took up my duties, one of my first commitments was to present an annual report on the application of the eu charter and to have a general debate every year on the way in which this charter is being applied. by this i was responding, de facto, to a request made by the european parliament one year ago: i would just like to recall the 2007 report of johannes voggenhuber. i am glad to see that today, on the basis of the report prepared by ms flašíková-beňová and the commission’s annual reports, we are able to hold a fully informed discussion. let me start by stressing that, since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty and then of the charter, progress has been achieved on three fronts: firstly, the commission has defined a clear policy on how to put the charter into practice. this was laid down, as you know, in the strategy for the effective implementation of the charter, and it has also ensured that the charter has become a compass for all eu policies. the strategies were assessing the consequences of having a legally binding charter and the measures taken by the commission to ensure its respect: for instance, checking the new legislation for compliance with the charter. so not a single initiative comes from the commission without passing this compliance check with the charter. furthermore, when the commission went before the court of justice to take an oath to respect the treaties, we also gave an oath that we will respect the charter. this is a symbolic act, i know, but it is also a political commitment from the whole college to ensure that the charter is respected. this policy has already brought tangible effects for our citizens because not only does the commission go ahead with putting the charter into practice, but the commission has also been followed by the council. for instance, the impact assessment which the commission makes on its basic texts has been followed by an impact assessment which is carried out by the council on its own amendments to commission proposals. let us not forget that the court of justice is applying more and more rules on the basis of the charter. there are, for instance, two pieces of eu legislation which have been invalidated by the court of justice for non-compliance with the charter. this, i believe, shows that the charter has evolved into a powerful tool. of course, not everything is perfect. however, we can no longer say that the eu institutions do not take fundamental rights seriously. the charter and the active work in promoting its application have ensured that today these rights play a fundamental role in the development of new policies – not only in the general application of the charter, but also in specific policy initiatives dedicated to specific fundamental rights. let me just quote some of them: the agenda on the rights of the child, the eu framework for the national roma integration strategies, the strategy for equality between men and women and the european disability strategy. all these strategies have given a new momentum in these specific areas, and the citizenship report, which is going to be presented in 2013, will look at the very specific area of rights for citizens when crossing borders. it will also present further concrete actions during the european year of citizens to enhance those citizens’ rights. the second front relating to the application of the charter is the effective enforcement of the charter in the member states. you all know our famous article 51, which has been quoted again and again in this chamber: the charter is addressed to the institutions, the bodies, the offices and the agencies of the union, and to the member states only when they are implementing eu law. but in this context, the commission takes very seriously its role as guardian of the treaties. some examples: the question of the roma in france in the summer of 2010 and in the summer of this year, and the actions regarding hungary and romania. these examples reveal our determination to intervene, where necessary, when the commission has the power to do so. let me come to the hungarian example, where the commission did not hesitate to refer hungary very quickly to the court of justice regarding the independence of the data protection supervisory authority and the age of retirement of judges, prosecutors and notaries. we were followed by the court of justice in this case, and now the very short transitional period has been declared incompatible with the eu equal treatment law. hungary will, therefore, have to change these rules in order to comply with the eu law. you will recall the events last summer in romania, where the commission set out in detail its concerns in its report under the verification mechanism adopted on 18 july 2012. the romanian government made a number of important commitments, and the commission is analysing what is happening in practical terms and will issue a further report analysing whether these concerns have been addressed and whether democratic checks and balances have been restored. another very important element is gaining ground, and this can be seen in our national courts. as explained in the 2011 commission annual report, national courts, when addressing questions to the court of justice (preliminary rulings), have increasingly referred to the charter. as compared to 2010, in 2011 these references rose by 50%. that is a very strong progress that means something; that really shows the reflection in our judiciary, not only at the european court of justice, but in our national courts. in general, the reflection that there is this charter and that it needs to be applied is gradually gaining ground. the third front where there was key progress is the development of new secondary legislation on fundamental rights. you know all of those, but let me just quote a few to show you want i mean. the data protection rules, which are real routes to better protection of personal data of individuals, or another element, which is the recently adopted proposal for women on corporate boards. what is interesting in this proposal is that we had to balance several fundamental rights included in the charter: gender equality, of course, but also non-discrimination, which has many court cases dedicated to it, and the freedom to conduct a business. so we have, if we present new legislation, always to strike a balance between different rights. i am sure that the parliament, with its relentless commitment, will turn the commission's proposal into a legally binding act. let me also quickly remind you of all the work which has been done on procedural rights for the accused, but also on the rights of victims in criminal proceedings, and all the new directives which have already been adopted or which will be adopted very soon. the recent adoption of the new directive on victims’ rights will improve the rights of an estimated 75 million crime victims annually across the eu. so, when you really look at what has been done since the charter has become our compass, it is remarkable, although it is a direction in which we are going; we have not reached the destination yet, but we are on the path. let me finish, president, with one remark concerning the fundamental rights agency, which we need in order to support our fundamental rights policy, because the agency has the role of gathering comparative data. if we did not have these data, we would be facing a data gap, and we would then have difficulties in obtaining the necessary evidence to underpin our policies on fundamental rights. this agency is, therefore, really necessary. unfortunately, the good work done by the agency is being jeopardised, as it now seems clear that the council will not be in a position to adopt the multiannual framework for the agency by the end of the year. i am seriously worried about this, because we all knew about the deadline. this also explains why the eu institutions made intense efforts in order to enable an agreement to be reached on time among the member states in the council. that also explains the concessions to the council. the concession, for example, that the agency will not be able to initiate work on police and judicial cooperation on criminal matters on its own initiative. it has to be asked by the parliament, by the commission or by the council. that was something i did not like to give in to, but i gave in for the sake of unanimity in council, in order to get this unanimity. now, in spite of this, one member state has failed to take the necessary steps which would have ensured that the multiannual framework is adopted in time, and as a result the agency and its staff will be in caretaker mode from january. now, we have again here an example of how the requirement of unanimity is blocking the work in the union, so i regret this very much and i hope that the problem can be solved, but it is very unfortunate.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i want first of all to thank the rapporteur for her very good work and for the report she drafted in strong cooperation with us. she has taken on board the suggestions and requests of all the shadows, including the epp, which is why the epp decision to vote against it without any prior notice was equally unexpected and unfair. this is most unfortunate as it sends a negative message to our citizens in relation to this parliament’s position on fundamental rights, putting at risk the adoption of this report, while the epp alternative resolution is completely empty. i cannot but hope that the epp, as a group, will not fall into the trap organised by some of its members to cover up what their national parties are doing back home. the alde group fully supports the report, as it consolidates this house’s continuing concerns in relation to the situation of fundamental rights, democracy and the rule of law in the eu and in its member states. we all know that the european union is experiencing not only an economic crisis but also a deeper crisis in terms of our basic principles and values. this is why we have to use to the maximum all the potential instruments that our treaties give us and reflect on strengthening these powers in the future. the eu institutions should make full use of articles 2 and 7 of the treaty on european union and address the copenhagen dilemma by developing a clear set of indicators, monitoring and sanctioning mechanisms, including an early warning and freezing mechanism that the epp has suggested in the past. among other things, this report also addresses the rights of specific groups such as roma minorities, lgbt persons, people with disabilities, migrants and refugees, which is one more reason to hope that, in the same week when the eu received the nobel peace prize and the world celebrates human rights day, the european parliament will vote in favour of a report on fundamental rights at home.
in writing. in a period marked by continuing economic and financial uncertainties, it has become apparent that economic monitoring and coordination at community level requires significant reinforcement. economic and monetary union will enable the union to achieve its medium and long-term objectives, but i believe that it has been set in the wrong direction from the start. in my view, a genuine economic and monetary union must not be limited to a system of rules. europe needs now more than ever a strengthened budgetary capacity, based on own resources, to support economic growth, facilitate increased competitiveness, support cohesion across the union and lead to the correction of existing macroeconomic imbalances.
i voted in favour of this report because i believe that an increase in payment appropriations is useful to meet the outstanding needs until the end of the year. this will allow commitments to be honoured and financial penalties to be avoided, and beneficiaries to receive funds provided for by union policies. in the context of the risk that cohesion policy or other important union programmes such as erasmus would run out of funding in the last months of the year, the budget amendment was absolutely necessary. i believe that the reduction of expenditure at union level must not affect the union's most successful policies and that to solve problems such as high youth unemployment we need sufficient european social fund funding. the reduction in appropriations for commitments and payments is also necessary to meet real needs by the end of the year.
i voted in favour of the report because, in the context of the economic crisis, the adoption of the 2013 budget is an emergency. i welcome the commission's new proposal because it contains important elements to facilitate convergence between parliament and the council, which has proved to be limited in recent negotiations. the new budget also underlines the importance of honouring previous commitments, particularly at council level. these new elements will contribute to the conclusion of an agreement as soon as possible. i believe that the budget should take account of the fiscal policies of the member states. it must also be complemented by actions aimed at increasing investment and economic stability, and adequate funding for the most important european policies is essential. this will give us a budget that will effectively promote growth and cohesion in europe.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the commission's proposal will increase the efficiency of ground handling services. i also believe that the improvement of the legislative framework will ensure an even greater opening of the market. at the same time, however, some important issues remain to be resolved in order to ensure better conditions for passengers. greater transparency and optimisation of services for users are needed. i also believe that the opening of the market for ground handling services in the union should be done in a balanced way. this will avoid a high degree of instability which would generate other problems over time and could lead to higher costs for passengers. i would also like to draw attention to the fact that there must be minimum standards to improve the quality of services and the operation of airports.
i voted in favour of the report because i too believe that the commission's proposal is a first step towards improving efficiency at airports. in this respect, ensuring optimal allocation and use of slots is essential. the system has so far proved ineffective and reinforcing the mechanisms and ensuring their effective application is of the utmost importance to remedy this. at the same time, we need to boost the competitiveness of operators and promote fair competition, and this can be done by increasing the transparency of the procedure. the provisions need to be streamlined and clarified. in addition, i believe that more importance should be given to the independence of coordinators and that the secondary market for airport slots should be better regulated.
mr president, according to the international civil aviation organisation, in just a few years more than five million people in europe will be affected by the high level of noise from aircraft. this is the reason why i totally support this proposal aiming at reducing the number of people affected by the harmful effects of noise due to living in the vicinity of airports. we should pay considerable attention to the economic aspects of this issue, since we are in times of crisis and cost-effectiveness is one of our main priorities. health and social aspects are of high importance in this matter as well. they should be equally considered. we cannot afford to miscalculate the cost and the benefits of noise-related operating restrictions. therefore i call on the commission to lay down the procedures for carrying out complete assessments able to determine whether an operating restriction is a cost-effective method to deal with a noise-related problem.
in writing. - i voted in favour of amending budget no 6/2012. the european parliament made the opening of negotiations for the 2013 budget conditional on ensuring that the payment of 2012 arrears is ensured without affecting the 2013 budget. the adoption of budget 6/2012 allows the continuation of important education programmes and scientific research projects that were threatened with interruption due to lack of funds. in addition, the emergency fund for adjusting to globalisation, which affects thousands of european employees, is being unlocked.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the council position on draft amending budget no 6/2012 of the european union for the financial year 2012, section iii commission. draft amending budget no 6/2012 of the eu for the financial year 2012 provides for an update of the estimated revenue following the last revision of the estimates for own resources and other revenue and an increase of payment appropriations of almost eur 9,0 billion for headings 1a, 1b, 2, 3a and 4 of the multiannual financial framework, with a view to meeting outstanding needs by the end of the year. by the budget trilogue of 29 november 2012, on the revised amount for financing needs in 2012, the decrease of payment appropriations to eur 6,1 billion was accepted, including a reallocation of eur 0,1 billion, and it was acknowledged that additional payment appropriations of eur 2,9 billion should have been authorised in 2012 to cover the payment requests received by the commission. i support the need to reach an early agreement in 2013 on an amending budget intended solely to cover that eur 2,9 billion and to allocate additional appropriations to the payment appropriations provided for in the initial 2013 budget, without impeding the correct execution of the 2013 budget.
in writing. − i support this agreement reached on the budget for the 2013 financial year, although it is far from ideal. it has been seen since 2012 that the council's attitude of cutting from the commission's proposals was not the most constructive. parliament warned last year that there was a risk that the money would not be enough for the payments needed for the current programmes. although an agreement has been reached on the 2012 amending budget to remove the problems faced by some multiannual programmes such as the research or erasmus programmes, there is a risk that we will face a similar situation in 2013 because of the level agreed for payment appropriations. we are all aware that we are going through a period of crisis and fiscal consolidation. however, the eu must have the financial means to exercise its powers and, above all, to finance those activities that can take us out of the crisis, such as the relaunch of the single market or the eu 2020 strategy, or those activities that are more effective at european level than at national level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the council position on the new draft general budget of the eu for the financial year 2013 all sections, as i believe that the lack of agreement would have much more serious consequences and much more negative effects on the implementation of the union's actions and programmes. the level of payments is eur 5 billion below the commission's estimates in the draft budget for payment needs for 2013 and the level of appropriations may not be sufficient to cover the actual payment needs for the following year and for the swift implementation of the pact for growth and jobs agreed by the european council in june 2012. we therefore ask the commission to submit to the parliament and the council monthly reports on the evolution of member states' payment claims from the structural funds, the cohesion fund, the rural development fund and the fisheries fund (broken down by member state and by fund) as from 31 october 2012. they also support making the vote in favour of the 2013 budget conditional on the provision of specific guarantees at the highest political level of the three institutions on the financing of the deficit payments for 2012 in the amount of eur 2,9 billion, without this implying a reduction of the payment appropriations for 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the mobilisation of a total of eur 2 658 495 from the european globalisation adjustment fund will help to reintegrate the 512 workers made redundant in the motorcycle sector in emilia-romagna into the labour market. as the value of exports of bicycles and motorcycles has decreased very much in recent years and the european two-wheeler industry has also been affected by the increase in exports of bicycles and motorcycles produced by asian manufacturers, i consider that the mobilisation of the egf is particularly important in this case. and italy, europe's number one motorcycle producer, has been hardest hit. the mobilisation of the egf will contribute to the provision of assistance for active job search, vocational training and retraining, assistance for the placement of redundant staff, the promotion of entrepreneurship and job search allowances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of the request submitted by italy, emilia-romagna region. this application concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 2 658 495 from the egf for italy. it concerns 512 redundancies in ten transport equipment manufacturing companies between february and november 2011. italy, the leading producer of two-wheelers in europe, has shown that at national level the production of motorcycles and mopeds decreased by 6% between 2009 and 2010. the largest decrease was in total production of two-wheelers, which in italy went from 641 000 cars in 2008 to 448 100 in 2010 (-30%). the european two-wheeler industry has also been affected by the increase in exports of bicycles and motorcycles produced by asian manufacturers. china, with 25 percent of the market, and india, which is gradually joining them, are now the world's largest producers. the increasing share held by these countries explains the overall decrease in exports of bicycles and motorcycles, which affected most european manufacturers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the swedish automobile industry has been severely affected by the world economic crisis. the 3,748 redundancies at saab automobile and its subsidiary have affected the competitiveness of the swedish car industry and generated social pressures. moreover, in december 2011, the swedish car manufacturer filed for bankruptcy. the assistance of eur 5 454 560 will help reintegrate 1 350 workers targeted by the assistance into the labour market. the measures envisaged include assistance in finding a job, vocational guidance, validation of experience and training for the labour market, assistance in finding a traineeship in a professional environment and a job, assistance in carrying out independent activities and mobility allowances.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in respect of redundancies at saab, sweden. the application concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 454 560 from the egf for sweden in respect of 3 748 redundancies in saab automobile ab during the reference period december 2011 to april 2012. the swedish authorities consider that, despite the problems saab has faced in recent years, the bankruptcy and closure were unforeseen. more buyers were interested in taking over the company and its workforce, and more designs and models of automobiles were appealing to potential buyers. it was only when gm, as the former owner, refused to grant the necessary licenses to a potential chinese buyer that the company had no choice but to file for bankruptcy. i recall the institutions' commitment to ensure a swift and smooth procedure for the adoption of decisions to mobilise the egf, by providing individual support aimed at helping workers made redundant as a result of globalisation and the financial and economic crisis. i would like to stress the role that the egf can play in the reintegration of displaced workers into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the spanish metal products sector has been badly affected by the world economic crisis. this sector is an important supplier of products to a wide range of manufacturing activities, in particular to the shipbuilding, construction and automotive sectors. all these sectors have been severely affected by the economic crisis throughout the european union. spain is also among the countries hardest hit by the global recession. production in the metallurgical sector as a whole decreased by 24,6% and the manufacture of metal products decreased by 23,3% in 2009. the eur 1 299 545 assistance from the european globalisation adjustment fund will implement measures to reintegrate 500 workers into the labour market, including assistance for the placement of redundant staff, entrepreneurship allowances, vocational training grants, traineeship grants and counselling services.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of spain. the request concerns 1 106 redundancies in 423 enterprises active in the manufacture of metal products in the basque country, spain, during the reference period from january to october 2011. spain is among the member states most severely affected by the global economic and financial crisis. the manufacturing sector has been among the hardest hit and continues to deteriorate. this has led to a decrease in demand and production of metal and metal products. in spain, the production in the metallurgical sector as a whole decreased by 24,6% and the manufacture of metal products decreased by 23,3% in 2009 compared to the previous year. the decrease in production in the metal products sector had a negative impact on employment. spain therefore lost more than 180 000 jobs in the metal sector in 2009 and another 60 000 jobs in 2010, representing around 15% of total jobs in this sector. i call for the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund to reintegrate workers made redundant into the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the mobilisation of eur 1 370 910 from the european globalisation adjustment fund will help reintegrate the 153 workers concerned into the labour market through measures such as skills and competences assessment, general and vocational training of unskilled labour, vocational training of skilled labour, technical courses for technicians, specialised courses for managers and engineers, training courses for future entrepreneurs, business planning and counselling, individual placement of redundant staff and subsistence allowances. as there are now visible trends in the electronic equipment sector of relocating installations to asia, the danish subsidiary producing printed circuit boards was closed and in this regard it was necessary to mobilise the egf to support the workers made redundant.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of dk electronic of denmark. the application concerns the mobilisation of eur 1 370 910 from the european globalisation adjustment fund for denmark in respect of 303 redundancies, 153 of which are covered by assistance, at flextronics international denmark a/s during the period from july to october 2011. recent trends in electronics manufacturing, of relocating facilities to asia, have been followed by flextronics, whose headquarters in singapore has taken the decision to close down the danish company and expand outside europe. flextronics denmark was a major manufacturer of printed circuit boards, components ubiquitous in all electronic equipment. the declines in the european electronics manufacturing market in general and the printed circuit board market in particular led to the company's decision to close flextronics denmark in august 2011. i call for the rapid mobilisation of egf funds to reintegrate workers into the labour market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because the mobilisation of the amount of eur 2 942 680 from the egf in favour of the workers made redundant at the nokia plant in cluj county was absolutely necessary in the current economic context. the application was submitted to the commission on 22 december 2011 and was romania's first application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund. the funds will help to reintegrate the 1 904 workers made redundant into the labour market. these measures include information, counselling and career guidance. mobility allowances, transport allowances, job search allowances and traineeship allowances will also be granted. last but not least, the amount will be used to provide financial assistance for starting up independent activities, guidance and support in the post-employment period, as well as financial assistance for people with children.
in writing. − i welcome the decision taken today by the european parliament to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers made redundant by nokia. nokia's closure of the mobile phone factory in jucu led to the laying off of no less than 1904 employees. the funds will be targeted in particular at people who have lost their jobs as a result of the change, providing funding for measures such as job search assistance, general training, retraining and career guidance, as well as mentoring and promoting entrepreneurship.
in writing. − romania has requested assistance for 1 904 redundant workers, of whom 1 416 are targeted for assistance. on 19 october 2012, the commission adopted a proposal for a decision to mobilise the egf in favour of romania to support the reintegration into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation. the coordinated package of personalised services to be financed, including its compatibility with actions financed by the structural funds, includes measures for the reintegration into the labour market of 1 416 workers targeted by assistance, such as pre-dismissal services, worker registration, information, counselling and career guidance, mobility allowances, transport allowances, job search allowances, training, traineeship allowances, financial assistance for the certificate awarded on completion of the training programme, promotion of entrepreneurship, financial assistance for starting up independent activities, post-employment guidance and support and financial assistance for children. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, the european globalisation adjustment fund shall be mobilised to provide the sum of eur 2 942 680 in commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund, which will allow the mobilisation of eur 2.9 million to support the 1 416 workers made redundant by sc nokia romania srl. these funds will enable these workers to find new jobs and build a better future for themselves. the funds will be used for career guidance and counselling, vocational training, entrepreneurship promotion and post-employment guidance and support. in addition, there will be a number of allowances, such as job search allowances, transport allowances and traineeship allowances.
in writing. - the aid requested by romania to support the 1 907 workers made redundant is a first for my country. the relocation of the nokia giant from romania confirms to me that the trend of large companies to move their production from the eu has been picked up in eastern europe. in the case of nokia, we are facing a situation of multiple losses. in 2009, the european globalisation adjustment fund contributed €5.5 million to help 1,300 workers made redundant at nokia, germany. subsequently, nokia announced that it was moving its production from the eu to asian markets. the decision has generated over 1 800 unemployed people in romania and an fead intervention in support of them worth eur 3 million. the relocations continued in the nokia case, with 1,000 redundancies in salo, finland. the total of the nokia relocations thus amounts to eur 14 million. i believe that solutions must be identified to reduce the risk of relocations. in this respect, the regional authorities could develop concrete plans to create clusters of companies in similar fields such as 'production clusters'. european companies targeting asian manufacturing markets might note the stated intention of apple inc., which announced last week that it intends to return some of its production from asia to the united states.
in writing. − welcomes the approval by parliament of the application to mobilise the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) to support workers made redundant by the nokia company (jucú municipality, cluj county) in 2011; as a result of today's vote, the 1 904 workers made redundant will receive financial support of almost three million euro to help them reintegrate into the labour market. this is the first such request submitted by romania in 2011 at the initiative of the government led by the political party of which i am a member, and i express my hope that our country will continue to benefit fully from the advantages of this particularly useful fund.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of nokia in cluj, romania. the application concerns the mobilisation from the egf of a total amount of eur 2 942 680 for romania in respect of 1 904 redundancies which occurred between august and december 2011, of which 1 416 were for assistance and were from sc nokia romania srl and a supplier in romania. the main reason for redundancies is the transfer of functions within the sector to third countries outside europe. mobile phone assembly, previously based in cluj and salo, has been relocated to asia (china, south korea, india and vietnam, where a new nokia factory is under construction). component manufacturing and subcontracted production have already been moved outside europe. the romanian authorities claim that in recent years there has been a general trend of the it sector moving from europe to asia. to meet the challenges of markets, nokia corporation's headquarters in finland has developed a strategy to move its production sites as close to markets as possible. i call for the egf to be mobilised as soon as possible to help reintegrate the workers made redundant into the labour market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because the budget cuts made by the steiermark government have affected the social sector, including the mandatory contractual benefits paid by steiermark under the social assistance for young people and the aid for disabled people. thus, the social service providers in steiermark first reduced their activities and subsequently started to lay off workers. by mobilising eur 5 200 650 from the european globalisation adjustment fund, measures will be implemented to reintegrate 350 workers targeted by the assistance into the labour market, such as career guidance and activation, active job search, individual vocational training, including traineeships and entrepreneurship training, vocational training allowances and a subsistence allowance during participation in training and job search measures.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in the case of the request made by soziale dienstleistungen, austria. austria requested assistance for 1 050 redundancies, of which 350 were assisted, in 105 enterprises whose activities related to social assistance in the region of steiermark, austria. i call on the institutions concerned to make the necessary efforts to improve the procedural and budgetary mechanisms with a view to speeding up the mobilisation of the egf. i welcome the improved procedure introduced by the commission following the european parliament's request to speed up the release of the subsidies. i hope that future improvements to the procedure will be integrated into the new regulation on the european globalisation adjustment fund (20142020) and that the egf will achieve an increased degree of efficiency, transparency and visibility. i would recall that in future the egf should be mainly allocated to vocational training and job-search assistance measures and vocational guidance programmes, and that the financial contribution of the egf to compensation should always be additional, complementing the benefits that workers receive under national legislation or collective agreements.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, as in the case of the nokia branch in romania, the finnish branch has also been faced with massive redundancies. the difficulties faced by nokia in recent years have led to a relocation of activities to other countries, particularly in asia. i therefore believe that the european globalisation adjustment fund should support the 1 000 workers made redundant. by mobilising eur 5 346 000, measures will be implemented to reintegrate the displaced into the labour market, such as job counselling, vocational training and apprenticeships. measures to promote entrepreneurship, support for starting a business on your own, mobility assistance and career guidance are also envisaged.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund in favour of nokia salo, finland. the application concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 5 346 000 from the egf for finland in respect of 1 000 redundancies in nokia (salo) during the period from march to july 2012. the main reason for redundancies is the transfer of functions within the sector to third countries outside europe. mobile phone assembly, previously carried out in salo and cluj, has been relocated to asia. nokia's plan is to move the entire assembly line to factories in asia, where most of the component suppliers operate. the purpose of the transfer of assembly operations to asia is to accelerate the market entry of the devices. by working more closely with subcontractors, nokia will be able to bring recent innovations to the market more quickly and improve its competitiveness. nokia is currently losing ground in its most important markets, china and india, where several companies producing low-cost phones are increasing their market share. at its peak, the electronics and electrical engineering industry employed over 60,000 people in finland, but by the end of 2012 this number will have fallen to 50,000.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because, in my view, the commission's current proposal on european statistics on security vis-à-vis criminals does not clearly address the questions of methodology and funding. common statistics at european union level play a very important role in the field of criminal law and must be characterised by coherence and transparency. unfortunately, at the moment, these characteristics are not well defined. in this connection, i believe that a new legislative proposal from the commission is needed, which would also make it compulsory to carry out a cost-benefit analysis of the funds used. furthermore, i believe that the involvement of all member states in the surveys is indispensable to demonstrate their usefulness and benefits.
in writing. − i believe that we need common statistics for the development of european union policies. therefore, the appropriate and necessary eu instruments should only be designed and adopted on the basis of common statistics and sound and coherent background information. however, the need for these data does not amount to a blank cheque for automatic acceptance of the proposed instrument. therefore, any proposed instrument must be methodologically sound and coherent and, at the same time, be based on a cost-benefit analysis of the funds used and the results expected.
in writing. − more than ever, there is a need for an individual-level inquiry into crime security in the european union. such an inquiry would complement crime figures from administrative sources such as police reports, which are notoriously difficult to compare between member states. moreover, an investigation in this respect could collect information based on a common methodology and a common questionnaire. however, i believe that such a survey should be carried out in all eu member states, with the exception that 'france and ireland are not obliged to collect data on violence between members of the same household'.
in writing. − i voted against commission’s proposal for a regulation on european statistics on safety from crime and therefore for the rapporteur’s resolution. i would like to underline the lack of real added value of the surveys and the lack of information on how they will be used for future proposals for legislation. what is the benefit of the surveys to the eu institutions? how will the people that are not victims fit in the survey? we underline the random character of the survey. what if it happens that none of the people interviewed have ever been victims? why would the person interviewed give an answer to a survey rather to the police? how can one guarantee that this information will not be used for other purposes? why does not eurostat use official data regarding crimes that were reported? in conclusion, i decided to follow the rapporteur’s position due to the methodology proposed for the achievement of these statistics. the added value of the survey, the cost-benefit and outcome of the survey remain the main concerns and therefore the commission should come up with an improved proposal.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on european security statistics on crime. common statistics at eu level provide an important basis for the development of eu policies. this applies all the more in the area of criminal law as a mixed competence (article 4 tfeu), where the eu is obliged to respect the principle of subsidiarity (article 5 teu) and where criminal law is linked to the understanding of fundamental rights in a free society. therefore, the appropriate and necessary eu instruments should only be designed and adopted on the basis of common statistics and sound and coherent background information. we ask the commission to indicate the number of member states already carrying out such surveys and their costs and to compare and analyse the added value and costs of previous surveys co-financed by the commission, such as the european crime and safety survey. survey questions should be drafted in a clear and precise manner, allowing for clear answers, the analysis of which can be used in future policy design.
in writing. − ground handling services are vital to the smooth running of air operations. according to the european commission, the turnover of ground handling services amounts to eur 50 billion. the number of jobs in this sector is estimated to be at least 60 000 across europe. the evolution of wages in the ground handling sector remained below the level of inflation and below the level of average wage growth. staff costs amount to approximately 75% of the production costs of the services. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on 30 june 2014 and entered into force on 1 january 2014. the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day. the commission's proposed regulation, which would replace directive 96/67/ec, aims to reduce delays and improve the quality of air passenger services. in order to achieve this objective, the commission intends to further liberalise the market for ground handling services by authorising at least one more independent third party ground handling company.
in writing. − ground handling services are vital to the smooth running of air operations. there are eleven categories of ground handling services: ground administrative assistance and surveillance; passenger handling; baggage handling; cargo and mail handling; ramp handling; aircraft services; fuel and lubricant handling; aircraft maintenance; flight operations and crew administration; ground transport and catering services. the number of jobs in the ground handling sector is estimated to be at least 60 000 in europe. the eu trade unions stressed that the evolution of wages in the ground handling sector remained below the level of inflation and below the level of average wage growth. the commission notes that the airport services agreement between the airlines and the airport operator was signed on 20 june 2014 and entered into force on 1 january 2014. it is unacceptable that wages in the ground handling sector are falling further and that more and more permanent jobs are being converted into temporary contracts. employees are responsible for air traffic safety, for maintaining technical flight security, but also for combating terrorist threats. the increasing social pressure on workers in this sector and their precarious situation, together with the liberalisation of the market for handling services, is contrary to the safety interests of the population.
in writing. − the quality of ground handling services within the european union’s airports is of high importance nowadays and it affects us all daily. i took note of the commission’s proposal intending to improve the efficiency of ground handling services, but i regret that important aspects were overlooked. no minimum standards or performance indicators were formulated for the attainment of these services overall quality. in order to increase the performance of the whole eu aviation chain and to achieve the realisation of the single european sky, we need to provide harmonised minimum requirements for airports and their operators. i urge the commission to clearly define obligatory minimum quality standards and to implement key performance indicators, applicable for all suppliers of ground handling services and self handling users, in order to improve the functioning of airports within the eu and to ensure a better service quality for the passengers.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report because i am sure that we can reach better conclusions by pursuing the debate. the committee on transport and tourism has two months from now to draw up a final report. it would have been a missed opportunity to reject the commission’s proposal and i am convinced that we will find a compromise that will satisfy the majority and that will benefit the citizens and the aviation industry. in view of major growth for air traffic, i think that liberalisation is necessary, at the same time as the establishment of minimum quality standards to improve the groundhandling services.
in writing. − globally, air transport has recently experienced unprecedented developments. if in the last 10 years 800 airlines have left the profile market, instead over 1 300 companies have appeared. at the same time, airlines operate some 90 000 flights a day, more than a quarter of which are within eu airspace. eurocontrol forecasts a steady growth of 5% in the number of flights in europe over the next decade, and the numbers could increase considerably once the current economic crisis is over. while at eu level we are facing congestion at the main airports, according to eurostat data, regional airports are reporting steady decreases in annual profit rates. in this respect, i am convinced that the allocation of slots at eu airports must take account of these discrepancies. regional airports can balance capacity and demand for passenger and cargo air transport. the efficient allocation of time slots should take into account the improvement of access at regional hub airports, which could significantly contribute to the growth of economic and tourist activity at regional level.
in writing. - i voted for amendment no 1, which proposes that the commission's proposal on the use of hadling services at union airports be rejected. i voted to reject and refer the proposal back to the commission, as voted in the transport and tourism committee (tran) of parliament on 6 november 2012. the main criticism of the tran commission to the commission's proposal concerns the social impact of the liberalisation of ground handling services for employees. there were also doubts about the positive impact of the proposal on quality of service and safety aspects. ground handling services are vital to the smooth running of air operations. however, i believe that further liberalisation of the ground handling market at the expense of workers is not the solution to make european airports and airlines more competitive. i voted to refer the motion back to the tran committee, which is the committee of the parliament responsible for this file. this will allow the existing text to be improved until a new commission proposal is made. however, if the tran committee's demands are not met, namely that the liberalisation of handling services should not be at the expense of workers, we will continue to support the rejection of the proposal for a regulation.
in writing. − airport capacity continues to decrease and their infrastructure develops slowly. it is absolutely necessary to improve the regulations regarding the limited resource of slots available in european union airports. however, the slot allocation process should be transparent, and coordinators and schedule facilitators must be independent and free from conflicts of interests. we also need to guarantee the neutrality and equality in the allocation, management and use of slots, in order to encourage effective competition and avoid fraud or misleading information. therefore, i call on the commission to clearly define strict criteria ensuring transparency of coordination activities and schedules facilitation.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report because it made the airport slot allocation process more transparent and more efficient and it allows airports to be more involved in the way their capacity is being used by airlines. this vote approved landing and take-off slot allocation and exchange rules designed to ensure that unused slots are made available to interested operators as soon as possible and without prejudice to connections between regional airports and major hubs.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on the allocation of slots at european union airports. the system of allocating slots does not ensure the optimal allocation and use of slots and, consequently, of airport capacity. the allocation and use of slots can be made more efficient by introducing mechanisms for the exchange of slots, while ensuring that unused time slots are made available to interested operators as soon as possible, in a transparent manner and by reinforcing the basic principles of the system, both in terms of the allocation and management of slots and their use. in addition, it is important that access to hub airports from regional airports is maintained where such routes are essential to the economy of the region concerned. concerns about the efficient allocation of slots must continue to take into account the need to protect the external benefits of air transport services, in particular the value they create for european regions. in order to further improve the system for allocating slots at eu airports and in the light of the evolution of joint projects, the progress made in the implementation of the single european sky and the results of the evaluation report, the commission shall adopt delegated acts to establish the post of european coordinator.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because the number of people affected by airport noise is constantly increasing. and this has negative health effects. in recent years, air traffic has increased, and airports have expanded even more. in this context, i consider that the noise level in the vicinity of airports in the union must be reduced as quickly as possible. to avoid harming the health of those living near airports, stronger noise control measures are needed, including the development of new noise standards for aircraft and new technologies. we need to consider both the economic benefits and the impact on health and quality of life in order to make the right assessment. i also want to draw attention to the fact that we must make every effort not to harm the health and well-being of people.
in writing. − the proposal aims to update existing measures to enable local authorities to improve noise levels in the vicinity of airports in the union. this approach must be done in a coherent manner. the eu is actively supporting the development of new noise standards for aircraft and investing in new technologies through the framework programmes and the clean sky project. however, land-use planning, together with related isolation and compensation programmes, is a national or local competence. operating procedures are the responsibility of the airport or air traffic service providers and are governed by the single european sky legislation. the proposal therefore covers noise-related operating restrictions as well as process-specific requirements and transposes international commitments into european law.
in writing. − i have voted in favour of this report because it aims at updating existing measures in order to enable local authorities to improve the noise climate around airports in the union within the international framework of the icao’s balanced approach on noise management. local authorities should also take into account economic and social aspects as well as health.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the reports on the allocation of slots at european union airports and the introduction of noise operating restrictions at eu airports. i welcome the attention paid to airports and their operation, especially in terms of passenger services. but we should also be concerned about the future of regional airports, and in this context i ask the commission to consider revising the threshold for operational aid by the member states up to one million passengers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the regulation on the introduction of noise operating restrictions at airports in the union. additional noise reduction measures should be developed following a systematic environmental monitoring and control process and should be based on a conservative approach, aiming at the prompt identification of necessary management and/or operational monitoring-based corrective measures. the airport operator must allow the choice of the most cost-effective noise reduction measures, taking into account health, economic and social aspects, in accordance with the 'balanced approach', so as to ensure the sustainable development of the airport and the capacity of the air traffic management network in a 'gate-to-gate' perspective. the use of approved noise abatement operating procedures should ensure that the necessary safety of flights is maintained by taking into account all factors that could affect a particular operation. operational noise abatement measures shall not prevent or prohibit security measures for the purpose of combating terrorism. noise assessments should be carried out or supervised by external and independent control agencies.
in writing. − the european union must continue to develop a statistical programme, as the need for information on the union's dynamics among european citizens and economic actors is growing. at the same time, it is only by carrying out accurate research that the union can act to increase its own institutional transparency. at the same time, it should be borne in mind that, in the context of increasing global interdependence, policy-making and policy implementation or the drafting of legislation must rely on increasingly complex statistics, which the present project has the capacity to achieve. moreover, in the current economic and financial crisis, the ability of states to collect and provide accurate and adequate statistics in short time frames is limited. i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the launch of a new statistical programme can provide european citizens and economic operators with data on the basis of which effective public policies or commercial strategies can be adopted.
in writing. − i consider the proposals of the rapporteur on the european statistical programme 2013-2017 to be positive and have therefore voted in favour of this report. in the current crisis, which requires coherent and effective policies, access to reliable and high-quality statistics is indispensable. a rigorous governance structure must therefore be developed to allow for the strict monitoring of statistics at european level. at the same time, government influence must be diminished to maintain and increase confidence in the statistics presented. i welcome the proposal to increase the role of eurostat, which, by publicly expressing its views on member states' practices, would increase transparency in this area. the implementation of public standardised audit systems that would effectively monitor the eu-wide accounting system and prevent fraud is also of particular importance.
in writing. − high-quality, regulated and reliable statistics are important components of the economic policy-making process. this procedure aims at creating a rigorous governance structure to ensure the integrity and quality of statistics at eu level. the main issues addressed in this report are: strengthening governance frameworks, including the independence of statistical offices; standardised public audit systems; easy-to-use statistical information; supporting member states to ensure compliance. in the wake of the crisis and with the start of the process of implementing the eu's new economic governance framework, high-quality statistics are particularly important. the rapporteur believes that the legislative authorities should take this opportunity to create the most reliable and accountable systems possible, either through more efficient funding mechanisms, by giving eurostat a greater role or by strengthening governance structures.
in writing. − for evidence-based decision-making, reliable and high-quality statistics are essential. recent economic events have demonstrated the importance of credible statistics for the public and financial markets to have confidence in such decisions. i am glad that the commission's proposal focuses on the independence of the national statistical institutes and, in particular, of the directors of these authorities. however, i believe that the national statistical authorities should be closely monitored and that irregularities should be discouraged by means of tough sanctions.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the regulation on the european statistical programme 2013-2017 because the implementation of eu policies requires comparable and reliable statistical information on the social, economic and environmental situation in the eu, as well as its components at national and regional level. european statistics are also indispensable for europe to be understood by the general public and for citizens to participate in the democratic process and in the debate on the present and future of the eu. the financial envelope for the implementation of this programme is set at eur 299,4 million, including eur 57,3 million for 2007-2013 and eur 242,1 million for 2014-2017. in addition to the financial envelope established by this regulation, the individual statistical actions adopted for the implementation of this programme, in particular by agreement between the national statistical institutes and other national authorities and the commission (eurostat), shall receive adequate funding at national level. in order to implement the programme, the commission shall adopt annual work programmes which meet the requirements laid down in article 17 of regulation (ec) no 223/2009 and set out the objectives pursued and the expected results. the financial contributions from the union may take the form of grants or public procurement contracts or any other intervention necessary to achieve the objectives referred to in article 2.
in writing. − the european union is built around the principle of integration. the possibility of introducing a financial transaction tax is one of the main points of debate on the european union's agenda. the institutional benefits that such a move can bring are equally relevant at a time when the european union states are facing the severe effects of the economic crisis. the decision of some states to go in this direction increases the relevance of the current debate. however, the institutional and budgetary impact of the adoption of a financial transaction tax is difficult to estimate at the moment. it is important that more actors take concrete steps towards deepening the process of cooperation in the fiscal and financial field, but any final decision at this level must take into account the cumulative effects produced at the level of all european economies. however, it is clear that the expected results can only be achieved if similar measures to tax financial transactions are adopted at eu-wide or even global level.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation because it is important that the union can strengthen its revenue system. only by harmonising the legislation on the financing of the budget from own resources can we contribute to deepening integration and moving towards a genuine political union. a correctly applied single financial transaction tax could complement regulatory measures aimed at avoiding future economic and financial crises. the common tax could also be a source of revenue to accelerate economic growth. on the other hand, a rigorous impact assessment of the effects on participating states and especially on non-participating states is indispensable. we must ensure that the rights, competences and obligations of non-participating states are not infringed and their competitiveness is not affected.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the recommendation on enhanced cooperation on the financial transaction tax. this tax will reduce volatility in financial markets and will also be a fairer method of taxation. the financial sector must also contribute to the recovery. in this context, i hope that as many eu member states as possible will decide to join the eleven that have decided to adopt a financial transaction tax.
in writing. − the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy and the achievement of its objectives depend to a large extent on the decisions we take during this period on the structure of future programmes and their budgets. although the financial sector has been highly profitable over the past two decades, it played the main role in triggering the economic crisis, while the costs were borne by public administrations and european citizens. that is why i believe that financial institutions must contribute equitably and substantially to covering the costs of the recent crisis. in addition, in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market for financial transactions and to avoid distortions of competition, the european union urgently needs to harmonise legislation on indirect taxation of financial transactions.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the council decision authorising enhanced cooperation in the field of financial transaction tax. as a result of the recent financial and economic crisis, some member states have started to implement new forms of taxation of the financial sector, while other member states already apply specific tax regimes for financial transactions, which leads to undesirable effects such as: a fragmentation of the tax treatment in the internal market for financial services, the absence of a fair and substantial contribution by financial institutions to the costs of the recent crisis and the lack of a fair tax treatment of the financial sector compared to other sectors. the implementation of a common system of financial transaction tax applied in a sufficient number of member states would bring immediate benefits to financial transactions in the framework of enhanced cooperation. the position of the participating member states would also improve in terms of delocalization risks, tax revenues, financial market efficiency and avoidance of double taxation or double non-taxation. the legislation and policy of other member states in the field concerned will not be affected, as operators in those member states can also benefit from the reduction of fragmentation of the internal market.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because in recent years the transport time of animals has increased. and often the conditions under which they are transported cause them undue suffering. the petition signed by over a million union citizens calling for an eight-hour limit to the journey of animals for slaughter should be taken into account. the transport of products of animal origin is a simpler and more economically reasonable solution than the transport of live animals. last but not least, member states should ensure that animal control standards are met. this could be achieved by developing an objective and reliable system for assessing the welfare of animals during transport. and to do this as well as possible, specialised control institutions will have to be set up.
in writing. − since 1977, the european union has had rules on the protection of animals during transport, which aim to remove technical barriers to trade while ensuring a high level of animal welfare. european union legislation on animal welfare during transport was updated by council regulation (ec) no 1/2005 on the protection of animals during transport and related operations, which entered into force on 5 january 2007. i consider that the harmonised enforcement and implementation of animal welfare rules is a key element in maintaining high animal welfare standards and avoiding market disruption in the eu.
in writing. − european legislation must guarantee the welfare of animals and their freedom from unnecessary suffering at all the main stages: rearing, transport and slaughter. in order to put this principle into practice, i believe it is necessary to set a maximum time limit for the transport of animals for slaughter, but with certain derogations to take account of the exceptional situations in some member states due to geographical conditions, road infrastructure, remote locations or the possibility of transporting certain animal species. higher standards for the means of transport, the equipment with which the animals are equipped and the staff who care for and accompany the animals can ensure that animal welfare standards are met during transport even where, due to these exceptional circumstances, the maximum journey time cannot be respected. in order to avoid stress and other negative effects that animals may experience during transport and to reduce economic, social and environmental costs, i consider that animals should be slaughtered as close as possible to the place where they were raised. the council and the european commission must encourage a regional animal production model whereby animals are born, raised and slaughtered in the same region, rather than being transported over extremely long distances.
in writing. − it is well known that animal health implies animal welfare, a certain minimum biological comfort, without which full expression of vitality, including natural behaviour, appropriate to changes in the environment is not possible. i therefore believe that effective and uniform implementation of existing eu legislation on the transport of animals in all member states must be maintained at eu level.
in writing. − the cruel conditions under which some animals are transported are of high concern for us. we need to immediately take action in order to enforce the eu regulation for their protection. therefore, i voted in favour for this report. however, in order to prevent law infringements in all member states, we need to harmonise the sanctions and penalties across the eu. only in this manner we can halt practices that worsen the conditions for the transport of animals. i call on the commission to regulate dissuasive sanctions at a unitary level in the nearest future, in order to ensure animal welfare during transport.
in writing. - i voted in favour of introducing the maximum eight-hour time limit for the transport of animals for slaughter, because we all want humane conditions for the transport of these animals. however, i would like to point out that the discussions should be more concerned with the conditions under which the animals are transported, not just with setting time limits. we should also be concerned about setting up local slaughterhouses that completely eliminate this discussion. last but not least, if we impose this rule in the eu, we should not allow the importation into the union of meat from animals that have been tortured in every possible way.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the protection of animals during transport. i voted for paragraph 14, which considers that the welfare of animals during transport depends in some cases on the existence of appropriate facilities at the vehicle level and the proper treatment of animals, as demonstrated in the opinion of the european food safety authority (efsa) of december 2010. however, we call on the european commission and the member states to establish guidelines on best practices to improve the application of regulation (ec) no 1/2005 and to strengthen control mechanisms in order to guarantee animal welfare. we support supporting local slaughterhouses and local food supply chains to avoid unnecessary transport of animals over long distances. we believe that, in principle, animal welfare legislation should be based on science. we ask the commission to update the rules on the transport of animals in view of the gap between the legislation and the latest scientific evidence identified by the european food safety authority (efsa). i also voted for paragraph 30, which calls on the commission to ensure that veterinary checks are carried out on animals to be transported at the end of the journey. finally, we believe that eu animal welfare rules must take into account the disadvantaged geographical situation of the peripheral and outermost regions.
in writing. − the effective defence and promotion of rights must be a general objective of eu policies and a proactive institutional commitment to human rights, developing and consolidating a true culture of fundamental rights in the union institutions and in the member states. despite existing legislation on combating discrimination, women still face discrimination in various areas of everyday life and i regret that after some 40 years of this legislation, the gender pay gap has not been eliminated. violence against women is the most systematic violation of the rights of girls and women worldwide, including in the eu. the commission should designate 2015 as the european year for the elimination of violence against women and develop an eu-wide strategy to combat violence against women, including mandatory instruments, awareness-raising, data collection and funding for women's ngos. the eu and its member states must work to achieve the objectives of the european pact for equality between women and men 2011-2020 and take action to tackle the gender pay gap, occupational segregation and all forms of violence against women.
in writing. − i believe that at eu level, a sufficient level of funding for programmes dedicated to fundamental rights and anti-discrimination for civil society organisations at all levels must be ensured in the future multiannual financial framework.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on fundamental rights in the european union. this report aims to guarantee that the eu is beyond reproach in upholding fundamental rights. today we can envisage living in a european union where respect for fundamental rights is the reality of everyday life. i personally regret that roma citizens are subjected to collective expulsions and deplore the weak reaction of the commission in certain cases. i welcome the fact that the report highlights the many gaps found in most of the roma integration strategies presented by member states to the commission and calls on national governments to allocate sufficient resources to meet the aims of those strategies.
in writing. − i am pleased that the european parliament, through the work of its committee on petitions and its subcommittee on human rights, continues to be an important voice on issues of human rights and democracy. i have only two observations to make on this subject: - increased attention must be paid to the protection of the rights and dignity of migrants at europe's borders. i am referring in particular to cases of children being arrested and held in european prisons for 'waiting for border controls' - the organisation of an annual conference, organised by the european parliament's committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs and the committee on petitions, would add value to the debate on fundamental rights in the eu.
in writing. − i voted against the report on the situation of fundamental rights in the eu (2010 and 2011) because of the view of the rapporteur on certain of these rights. besides, some of these rights go against the maintenance of a balanced european area of freedom, security and justice that europe has being trying to build since the very beginning, and to consolidate since the lisbon treaty. rights regarding: the right to vote of stateless people in local elections, drugs, illegal residents, transgender rights and naming the specific problems in the different member states go beyond the principal of the functioning of the fundamental rights system of the eu. nevertheless, the report points out rightly key issues such as discrimination, rights of minorities (including national, linguistic minorities and roma), equal opportunities, gender equality, detention of immigrants (including minors), access to healthcare for immigrants (including for irregular migrants, especially pregnant women and children) fighting against homophobia, rights of the child and citizenship. all these issues have to be respected in the european union and have to be taken into consideration for the future eu legislation.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union, because article 2 of the treaty on european union (teu) establishes the union as a community of indivisible and universal values. these values include respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, gender equality, non-discrimination, solidarity, the rule of law and respect for human rights and civil liberties for all people living in the eu. i believe that the under-representation of women in the political decision-making process is a deficit for fundamental rights and democracy, and the positive measures introduced in france, spain, belgium, slovenia, portugal and poland, such as systems of legislative parity and quotas for women's representation, are essential good practices. calls on member states where women's political representation is particularly low to consider the introduction of binding legislative measures. we argue that violence against women is the most systematic violation of the rights of girls and women worldwide, including in the eu, and we call on the commission to establish 2015 as the european year for the elimination of violence against women. we call on the commission to develop an eu-wide strategy to combat violence against women.
unfortunately, the union has not yet had a unified approach to human rights worldwide. the adoption of the strategic framework will provide more coherence in the field. i too believe that human rights must be at the heart of relations with all third countries and that respect for them must be mentioned in all agreements concluded by the european union. the commission should therefore develop clear criteria for the application of the human rights clause, as well as mechanisms leading to a simpler activation of the human rights clause. i therefore support the rapporteur's idea that parliament should be a co-decision factor in this area. finally, speaking of human rights, i would like to remind you of the repeated violations of human rights in the regions of frozen conflict, and i am referring in particular to the transnistrian region.
russia's accession to the world trade organisation can ensure a strengthening of the partnership with the european union. but this partnership, characterised by interdependence, must also be an equitable one. the fact that the russian side has shown its willingness to comply with international trade rules is not enough. russia has to meet all of its wto obligations before we can talk about a new deal. the introduction or prolongation of restrictive trade measures, such as a ban on imports of animals from the european union, favouring russian producers in public procurement or imposing import duties on certain types of sugar, are practices that are contrary to wto rules. it is therefore imperative that the new agreement contains provisions relating to trade and investment. the new framework for negotiations with russia must also include a chapter on energy, one of the most sensitive but also most important issues for the european union. although negotiations on a substantive and legally binding chapter are currently at an impasse, the european commission must make every effort to ensure that the principles of transparency, free competition, reciprocity and non-discrimination in the energy sector are respected by russia.
in writing. – in the last decade of the twentieth century the west failed to push back russia from containing its imperial ambitions. in the first decade of the twenty-first century the west failed to establish a partnership for integrating russia within the european system of security, stability, freedom and prosperity. in the second decade of the twenty-first century the west finds itself in front of an assertive russia which is no longer the old enemy and not quite its ally, but which is in a contest of interests with it. the problem is that the eu is unable to define a common position concerning its geo-strategic interests. therefore it prefers to engage in a deadened way of exporting values by transforming the adoption of its standards beyond the need for interoperability into the conditionality for the progress of political cooperation. russia could not be forced to accept such a deal and the eu has no strength to impose it. the only way to reset the eu-russia relations is by transferring the negotiations to the rational field of interests where the eu can promote a strategy of joint projects aimed at achieving a balanced multipolar global order and a secure common neighbourhood.
president-in-office of the council, on behalf of the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy. − mr president, we are all following the domestic political situation in egypt with increasing concern. last week saw violent clashes during demonstrations, leading to several deaths and many hundreds injured. the situation between president morsi’s supporters and the main opposition, the national salvation front, is seemingly blocked. further protests are called for by both camps. an agonising question that boggles the mind is: what about egypt’s democratic transition? on monday, we discussed the situation in egypt in the foreign affairs council. ministers agreed that we need to see a de-escalation of the situation and an all-inclusive dialogue to find a solution based on consensus and joint ownership. and evidently, egypt needs a strong constitution that represents all egyptians. honourable members, allow me first to recapitulate some of the events that have led to this deeply divisive political crisis. on 22 november, president morsi issued a constitutional declaration whereby he, among other things, put the presidency beyond judicial control. on 30 november, a draft constitution was adopted by the islamist-dominated constituent assembly and presented to the president. a public referendum on the constitution was called for on 15 december. demonstrations by both camps followed, initially peaceful but – regrettably – turning violent last week. last thursday, president morsi addressed the nation, calling for talks; however, not budging on the constitutional declaration and keeping the set date for the referendum. the national salvation front, which is the main opposition bloc, consisting of liberal and secular parties, including, inter alia, former presidential contenders amr moussa and mohamed el-baradei, refused to take part in the talks, since none of their requests were complied with – namely, to rescind the constitutional declaration, cancel the constitutional referendum and create a new constituent assembly. on saturday, and following the planned dialogue that convened some 60 political figures – but not, however, the national salvation front – president morsi nullified the initial constitutional declaration but then he issued a new one, which included keeping a date for the referendum. as we speak, new demonstrations are being called for by pro-morsi supporters and by the opposition, but the situation is calmer in the streets. the national salvation front has announced today that it will participate in the constitutional referendum and campaign for a ‘no’ vote. this lends a new level of legitimacy to the vote. on the economic front, egypt decided to freeze – for the moment – the imf loan for a month. this is not a final decision and we will need to see how the situation unfolds. all along, high representative/vice-president cathy ashton, as well as the eu special representative bernardino león and the eu delegation in cairo, have been in constant touch with the main political protagonists – not least foreign minister mohamed amr – passing on messages on the need for de-escalation and conciliatory moves. this has been judged the preferred course of action, given the degree of polarisation and controversy between the parties and also the sensitivity on both sides about outside interference. as you will know, last wednesday, high representative/vice-president ashton also conveyed in a public statement the importance of egypt continuing its democratic transition and called for inclusive dialogue. going back to my initial question on egypt’s democratic transition, democracy-building is not a ‘quick fix’. many of you have witnessed this process recently in your own countries. you know that building deep and sustainable democracy is a long process which requires hard work, commitment and stamina as well as patience – domestically and internationally. sometimes, actions and measures will be taken that, in hindsight, are not particularly well-considered. as one of my colleagues in the foreign affairs council stated on monday, transition is always messy and entails divisive decisions at times. it is important, however, to take account of opposition demands. i think this statement summarises the situation in egypt very well, and it is now up to the leadership, together with the opposition, to truly engage in an inclusive dialogue to find a consensual solution that has joint ownership – also to restore confidence regarding egypt’s commitment to democratic transition. again, i repeat that it is of the utmost importance that egypt gets a constitution that represents all egyptians and ensures human rights for all, independently of faith, gender or any other consideration. people lost their lives in tahrir square and elsewhere in their legitimate request for their political and socio-economic rights. let us never forget that. honourable members, egypt is currently facing an extremely delicate situation, but they have to find a solution themselves. egypt belongs to the egyptians, and we should not and cannot impose a solution. what we can do now is to show that the european union supports the people of egypt through the democratic transition and continue our call for inclusive dialogue for a solution based on consensus – and, evidently, banning any violence. the european union also needs to convey firmly and clearly our expectations for a democratic transition, recalling the successful eu-egypt task force of 13-14 november in which some of you actively took part and which established a new momentum in eu-egypt relations based on respect for social justice, socio-economic development, the rule of law, human rights and good governance.
on behalf of the epp group. i would like, first of all, to welcome the debate we have today on the situation in egypt; it is a really urgent discussion, because, as we all know, the egyptian revolution is in danger. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment. i am sad to say that every day that passes takes us further away from this objective; suffice it to mention the recent adoption of decree 107, which authorizes the egyptian army, in the run-up to the constitutional referendum, to arrest civilians and to bring them before military courts. it is known, on the other hand, that president morsi eventually agreed to withdraw the decree that would have made him a hyper-president, but this did not happen until after two weeks of opposition protests, marked by violent attacks by supporters of the muslim brotherhood. moreover, egyptian society never seemed to be so deeply divided. this is not about whether or not to support president morsi, this is about a deeper division over the place of religion in public life, and this division cannot be overcome by imposing a constitutional text. the european parliament has also called for the commission to be given the task of drawing up a report on the situation in the middle east, which will be presented to the european parliament in the near future. we must therefore insist that the authoritarian drift of the egyptian regime be brought to an end and that a genuine and inclusive dialogue be launched. it's the only way out of the current crisis. the events of the last few hours only serve to reinforce that conclusion. the egyptian military announced that it was holding talks with the opposition to cancel them at the last minute, without specifying another date. moreover, egyptian officials are still pressing for the constitutional referendum, although there is considerable confusion: it is not clear whether the vote will be held on december 15 or both december 15 and 22, and according to the latest information, it has already begun for voters from abroad. such a consultation has more the air of a comedy, of a charade, than of an inclusive democracy. i think that's why we have to insist that the fundamental law of a country cannot be adopted in such a petty way.
we all thought that after the election of the new egyptian president the political situation would stabilize. but unfortunately, in the last couple of weeks, things have gotten out of hand. president morsi's decision to increase his constitutional powers may pose a threat to the path to democracy. i strongly supported all the arab spring movements, including the one in egypt, but i believe that one authoritarian regime should not be replaced by another. that's why i think it's necessary for the president of egypt to abandon the decree that extends his prerogatives, and for the egyptian citizens to abandon the violent protests. the best way for them to make their voices heard is to vote in the constitutional referendum on 15 december, and the adoption of a new constitution will be a further step in the transition to democracy.
mr president, the ukrainian dilemma is not about the choice between values and interests. it is about the choice between promoting the euro-atlantic interest and the eurasian interest. ukraine is the most important geo-strategic asset on the as yet unsettled border between the european union and the emerging eurasian union. those who are able to integrate ukraine in their system will be able to master their security at that border. ukraine expressed loud and clear its choice of integration with the european union. to reject ukraine, irrespective of the reasons – or rather pretexts – formulated to this end, means to betray our values and our interests. we betray our values by alienating the ukrainian people, who are disappointed by our hypocrisy, short-sightedness and unfairness, and by pushing it towards a union which does not cherish our standards. we betray our geostrategic goals because we refuse the benefit of the instruments offered by the already negotiated association agreement in order to bring ukraine, slowly but steadily perhaps, into our union through economic integration, political association and institutional convergence, thus forcing it to become a eurasian outpost at our eastern borders. let us not fool ourselves. postponement means refusal. one might say that the ghosts of ribbentrop and molotov, as well as the geostrategic logic of their pact, hide behind this refusal. therefore we must refuse the refusal. we must move forward by signing the association agreement with ukraine right now.
mr president, the eu recognises ukraine’s european credentials. the conclusion of the negotiations on the association agreement and the evaluation of the visa facilitation action plan are facts underlining the seriousness of the eu’s commitment to ukraine. the electoral process reflects the health of democracy in any society. therefore, when discussing the recent parliamentary elections in ukraine, we naturally evaluate the democratic reform process there. in that respect we salute the decision of the ukraine to set up a commission to evaluate the lessons learned from the last elections, hopefully with an eye to the 2015 presidential elections. however, one should not be too schematic. naturally no election process is perfect, and to conclude from that that the entire democratic commitment should be questioned would be an oversimplification. equally ukraine should be aware that the weightiest factor conferring credibility on its declared objective of further political association and economic integration with the eu is ultimately the success of its democratic, economic and social reform process.
the council conclusions of monday underlined again ukraine's european orientation and the union's willingness to support this country. on the other hand, as we know, the realisation of the european opportunity requires the fulfilment of a number of conditions, and i am referring here to the democratic process, elections, the question of justice and, of course, the reforms provided for in the association agenda. as for the elections, the october 28 elections clearly marked a deterioration from the level reached before ukraine. the main shortcomings have already been pointed out, and i say this, they concern unequal access to mass media, to resources, but also, very importantly, harassment and intimidation of opponents. if this is harassment, we're obviously talking about convicting members of the former government in trials that are far from meeting international standards. i have said it before in this parliament, and i, and my colleagues, have said it before, that the sentencing of yulia tymoshenko has become a symbol of the politicization of justice, not just in ukraine, but more broadly in the world. finally, i would like to emphasise the crucial importance of cooperation with the council of europe and the venice commission in revising the law on the functioning of the office of the prosecutor general, reforming the criminal code and the police, the role of the superior council of justice and the law governing the legal system and the status of judges, the correct implementation of crucial legislation, as well as the fight against corruption. i too express my wish, my hope, that at the vilnius summit we will see an improvement in all these aspects which will obviously help ukraine on its european path.
monitoring the application of fundamental rights is one of the european union's most important tasks, and the fundamental rights agency is its most effective tool. if the eu is to be truly an area of freedom, security and justice, it is essential that fundamental rights are fully guaranteed in all member states to the same standard. it is regrettable that the union does not have the means to ensure these principles in many respects, and that is why member states may approach the issue differently. if we are serious about the rules we have set together, there must be a coercive force - even at union level - to ensure that fundamental rights are respected. reading the rapporteur's position, i was unfortunately not surprised to find that several member states in the council attempted to discriminate against national minorities. some member states would prefer to sweep the problems of national minorities living in their territory under the carpet. the reason is that to this day, equality in all areas of life has not been guaranteed. several member states have done little to protect the rights of national minorities. it is time for the eu to ask about minority protection measures not only for candidate countries, but also for member states to monitor the process. if citizens of the union are guaranteed the same fundamental rights and if the union guarantees their enforcement, then the situation of national minorities cannot be a matter for the member states. national minorities are not immigrants, they are not the result of migration processes over the last hundred years, but communities that have lived in the same area for centuries. the solution to their situation is therefore what is considered to be good practice in the rest of the continent: to provide some form of self-government while respecting the national framework.
i think today's discussion is extremely important. unfortunately, in 2011, poverty and social exclusion in the european union increased dramatically, going from 49% in bulgaria to 17% in luxembourg. i believe that the european union needs a process of reindustrialising europe because only in this way can we create jobs and ensure economic growth. the european union is first and foremost about its 500 million citizens, and it is important that we can provide jobs based on the education that young people have. smes are important. the growth pact must finance and secure job creation. austerity alone cannot ensure economic growth. i welcome the fact that the financial transaction tax will allow the banking system to contribute to the process of economic growth and pay part of the cost of the crisis to which it has contributed substantially.
at a time when financial problems persist, europe needs more than ever urgent measures to support the recovery of economic growth, and that is why i believe that a close link between the commission and parliament is absolutely necessary to find successful solutions. a particularly important issue that the commission must address as a matter of priority is the danger of deindustrialisation in europe. we must be aware that without a strong industrial base, europe has no chance against global competitors. given that industrial investment has fallen by 2.5% of gross domestic product over the last three years, i believe that new sources of finance are urgently needed to stimulate economic recovery and bring innovation and new technologies back into the factories. if the european union does not keep pace with the investments of the other great powers in the adoption and use of these technologies, our future competitiveness will be seriously affected and europe's role as a world leader will be compromised.
in writing. economic recovery and stronger economic growth are necessary to create jobs and prosperity and are essential to make member states' public finances sustainable. european industry is of crucial importance to the eu as a world economic leader. a competitive industry can reduce costs and prices, create new products, improve quality and create jobs, thus contributing to an increase in productivity across the economy. industry is the main source of innovation needed to meet the challenges facing society at eu level. research and innovation lead to increased productivity and competitiveness of industries. the transition to a sustainable economy with efficient use of resources and low carbon emissions is of crucial importance for maintaining the long-term competitiveness of european industries. investment in the small and medium-sized enterprises sector should be promoted, given that smes account for almost 59% of the value added produced in the eu. it is worth noting that 23 million smes currently provide some 90 million jobs in the eu private sector, 30% of which are micro-enterprises.
mr president, in the union we created a common market and then we created a single currency. however, we did not create, and we do not have, a common political will and a common policy. our vote in favour of the financial transaction tax is an important step towards introducing a unique policy. even if it is adopted for only 11 member states, the creation of the financial transaction tax system will make a substantial contribution to covering the costs of the recent crisis. it is important now to concentrate on expanding this system to a unitary level. it is only through harmonised legislation on financing the eu budget by own resources that we can achieve a democratic, fiscal and monetary union.
i voted against the report because i believe that some of its aspects violate the principle of subsidiarity. where the union lacks competence in certain areas, the responsibility lies with the member states. i also think that the report should have put more emphasis on the issue of roma inclusion at european level. romania has a specific problem, having the largest roma community in europe. the national roma inclusion strategy therefore aims to create the conditions for their integration. the main problem remains inadequate funding, as the union has not made additional funds available to the states to implement the strategy. a downside of this strategy is that the states have to allocate money from national budgets, although the issue of roma integration is a european one, not a national one. i think in the future budget, we should find funding sources for national roma inclusion strategies.
mr president, when it was created in 2007 the european agency for fundamental rights was given a five-year multiannual framework. today, we – myself included – consented to the new multiannual framework of the agency for the period 2013-2017. this new multiannual framework broadens the agency’s scope of action to include roma integration – although not to the end of the period – and judicial cooperation with the exception of judicial cooperation in criminal matters. however, although i voted in favour of the council decision, i believe that we should assess in depth the performance of the european fundamental rights agency as well as its added value as against civil society organisations performing similar tasks in order to avoid duplication of work and loss of taxpayers’ money.
i voted in favour of the recommendation because the work of the agency has contributed to a better implementation of the principles of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in its published reports, the agency has highlighted problems of discrimination, racism, xenophobia or access to justice. it should therefore continue its work in the same thematic areas in the period 2013-2017. we need to ensure that those vulnerable categories are protected in an effective and similar way in absolutely all member states. discrimination on grounds of sex, race or ethnicity cannot be tolerated in a union moving towards greater integration, and the agency can offer the best solutions to such problems. greater involvement of the commission in the development of european policies in this area will strengthen respect for fundamental rights in the union.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report on human rights and democracy in the world. the union needs clear guidelines, principles and benchmarks for its human rights policy and spending. external financial instruments, such as the european instrument for democracy and human rights, for which i am a shadow rapporteur, can help protect the lives of human rights defenders and support civil society organisations in their fight for democracy, the rule of law and justice. we must make use of all these tools together with the principle of ‘more for more’. this means we should both help people in need and pressure local governments to fulfil their political commitments. a gradual process of political reforms monitored by the eu can lead to very good results. the republic of moldova is an excellent example of the effectiveness of our eastern neighbourhood policy. we should draw the right conclusions from this success story and continue to make the union’s human rights policy coherent with our external action.
i voted in favour of the report because i believe that the union must promote human rights everywhere in the world. the first step is the adoption of the human rights action plan. the inclusion of freedom of expression online in the plan is very important, especially in the context of the impact of internet censorship on fundamental rights in many third countries. one example is iran's plan to build a "clean internet", which will block citizens' access to the global web. but there are human rights violations at the borders of the european union too. it is a matter of concern that in countries such as ukraine and russia, the judiciary is being used as a means of putting pressure on political opponents. if the union's human rights action is to be effective, a monitoring mechanism must be set up with very clear criteria.
mr president, we reviewed the eu strategic framework on human rights and democracy, and this is good. i want stronger conditionality and benchmarks that are transparent, measurable, concrete and consistent. in 2012, the union took decisive steps towards enforcing its human rights policy in all eu external action strategies, including by nominating the eu special representative for human rights and by creating the european endowment fund for democracy. the european parliament has actively participated in this process and called repeatedly for more concrete implementing measures. we need to make clear our commitment to measurable criteria for progress on issues such as democracy, justice and the rule of law. we should also continue to reward high achievers and apply the ‘more for more’ principle. the report supports this approach and a tougher stance against those who fail to deliver. i agree with this.
i voted in favour of the report because a genuine partnership between the european union and russia must be based not only on common interests but also on shared principles and values. the respect for the rule of law and the guarantee of fundamental rights and freedoms should be a mandatory part of these. with its influence in the region, russia should become a model for its neighbors. cases such as that of khodorkovsky, or more recently, sergei magnitsky, are known to all members of parliament. therefore, any agreement with russia should contain clauses on human rights and democratic reform issues, and failure to comply with them should automatically lead to the application of sanctions or restrictive measures.
i voted in favor of this resolution. i believe that unilateral decisions do not encourage the peace process in the middle east. although i support the two-state solution, the palestinian authority's move at the un has complicated efforts to resume bilateral negotiations, which is why romania abstained from the vote. hamas attacks on israeli territories have only made the situation worse. at the same time, however, the decision to build new housing in east jerusalem and the west bank also jeopardizes the two-state solution. i believe that a major effort is needed to restore confidence in the area. the resumption of dialogue is essential for ensuring stability in the region. the role of the international community will be to bring the two sides back to the negotiating table. it is likely that without political will, no significant progress will be made.
mr president, ukraine takes over this year the chairmanship of the oecd, and it can play an important role in the ‘5 + 2’ negotiations regarding the settlement of the transdnistrian conflict. the signing in 2013 of the association agreement between the union and ukraine, which includes a dcfda, could be a great achievement for both sides. however, ukraine must also act like a credible international actor and honour its commitments. double-talk is not acceptable. this month, the foreign affairs council highlighted three areas where the union wants more progress from ukraine. one of them is selective justice. we do not want selective justice; we cannot blindly go forward and sign agreements without any evidence that the principles of the rule of law and justice – and i mean justice – are respected. i hope that the ukrainian authorities, as well as the ukrainian people, understand this and take it seriously.
i voted in favour of the resolution because i want to reaffirm my support for albania's european path. i believe that the political agreement of november 2011 between the ruling party and the opposition will accelerate the pace of reforms in the priority areas. however, i must point out that, like many countries in the western balkans, albania also has persistent problems with corruption and the functioning of the judiciary. the commission will have to closely monitor the implementation of reforms in these sectors. another aspect that concerns me is the protection of minorities. the fact that many of them, like the romanian minority, do not yet enjoy official status prevents them from studying in their mother tongue and preserving their culture. last but not least, i hope that the albanian authorities will be more active in combating discrimination against the roma population.
mr president, the steel industry in the union is facing a considerable drop in demand. employment is also decreasing. we cannot afford to become dependent on massive imports from third countries. therefore i urge the commission to urgently adopt measures to foster competition in the steel market in compliance with the eu competition laws. romania, the country i come from, is an important actor in this sector, with more than nine steel plants in various locations. unfortunately, the romanian steel industry is one of the slowest-growing in the european union. employment and exports have been seriously affected. therefore i call on the commission to supervise developments in all member states that can ensure fair competition in the steel market, thereby leading to cost savings.
given that the steel industry is vital to the competitiveness of the european industry as a whole, it is in everyone's interest that it maintains a high level of its activities and ensures security of supply through domestic production. if the european union is to achieve its industrial objective of increasing the share of industry in gross domestic product from 16% to 20% by 2020, the commission must urgently take measures to support the development of the european steel industry. in this respect, i recommend: implementing a new action plan on the sustainable competitiveness of the construction sector and, by implication, the steel sector; developing measures to attract new foreign direct investment; ensuring a level playing field; and, last but not least, avoiding potential abuses of a dominant market position.
i voted in favour of the resolution because the steel sector is facing serious difficulties at the moment. the main challenges are related to the obligation to reduce emissions and costs, and the need to maintain a skilled workforce. furthermore, climate change and new environmental legislation are other issues to consider. the steel industry has so far managed to cope relatively well with the rapid changes in the global steel market. in my country, too, the situation is difficult and the sector has suffered significant losses, especially since the crisis. the galata ironworks lost several thousand employees in the last year. we need coordinated actions and measures to enhance the long-term competitiveness of the industry and to overcome the challenges facing the sector. ♪ i'm not a girl ♪
in writing. − the human rights platform, the agency's management board and the european group of national human rights institutions believe that the agency's remit should explicitly include social rights and a special role in the independent monitoring of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. the thematic area on roma integration should also be reformulated. it is regrettable that there is no agreement in the council on the inclusion in the new multiannual framework of proposed new thematic areas, police cooperation and judicial cooperation in criminal matters. following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, they are an integral part of union law and therefore fall within the scope of the agency's tasks. the agency needs new thematic areas to address in order to have continuity in its activities. if, by the beginning of 2013, there is no multiannual framework, the agency may only work if there is an express request from an institution, and not on its own initiative. the commission should assess and propose the revision of the tasks, areas of activity and working methods of the agency in 2013 in order to ensure the effective monitoring and application of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the legislative resolution on the proposal for a council decision establishing a multiannual framework for the european union agency for fundamental rights for the period 2013-2017. in accordance with article 5 of regulation (ec) no 168/2007 establishing the european union agency for fundamental rights, the thematic areas of activity of the agency are established by a multiannual framework with a duration of five years. this decision establishes the multiannual framework referred to in article 5 of regulation (ec) no 168/2007 for the period 2013 to 2017 with the following thematic areas: access to justice; victims of crime; information society and, in particular, respect for privacy and protection of personal data; roma integration; police cooperation, taking into account the specific nature of this area; judicial cooperation, taking into account the specific nature of this cooperation when it concerns criminal matters; the rights of the child; discrimination based on race, colour, ethnic or social origin, genetic characteristics, language, religion or belief, political or other opinion, membership of a national minority, homophobia, disability, age, racial or sexual orientation; immigration integration; xenophobia and related intolerance; and migration and asylum.
in writing. − in recent years, the european parliament has managed to gain more and more powers, giving it the power to take legislative initiative in many areas of major interest to european citizens. i therefore support the rapporteur's proposals which encourage each member to use his or her prerogatives to table proposals for union acts which can have a real impact on policies developed at european level. at the same time, i believe that improvements in the use of written statements, which the european parliament has at its disposal to draw attention to matters of public interest, have the potential to enhance the usefulness of this instrument.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because it called for a simplification of the rules of procedure for written declarations and legislative initiatives. first, i consider that written statements must be based on issues falling within the competence of the union and in which the union may intervene to remedy deficiencies. the signing of a written declaration by a larger number of initiators is also welcome, giving it more legitimacy and increasing the chances of its subsequent adoption. last but not least, the possibility of electronic recording and distribution, as well as the option of withdrawing the signature, will simplify the procedures for written statements. in addition, informing the competent institution of the status of the declaration within a maximum of 3 months will increase the effectiveness of the declarations.
in writing. - i voted to amend rules 123 and 42 of the rules of procedure of the european parliament: written declarations and legislative initiatives. following the extension of parliament's powers and the introduction of the european citizens' initiative, written statements can continue to be a useful tool for members to draw attention to issues of public interest. at least 10 meps from at least three political groups may submit a 200-word written statement on a subject falling within the exclusive competence of the eu. the declaration may not call for legislative action and may not concern the subject of proceedings pending in parliament. written statements shall be published in the official languages on parliament's website and entered in an electronic register with the names of the signatories, accessible on parliament's website. any member may sign a statement entered in the electronic register and his signature may be withdrawn within three months of the entry of the statement in the register. in the event of withdrawal, the member concerned may not re-sign the declaration. if the institutions to which a statement is addressed do not inform parliament within three months of receiving the statement of their intention to act on the statement, one of the authors of the statement may put the matter on the agenda of a subsequent meeting of the committee responsible.
in writing. − in its external action, the european union has developed a number of policy instruments and guidelines to implement its commitment to human rights and democracy. i believe that the institutions of the european union must cooperate as closely as possible both in the development of european human rights policy and in its implementation, because only concerted action has the potential to produce the desired effects. the european union must use all the instruments at its disposal to help improve the situation of fundamental rights in countries where the population does not enjoy them. i therefore stress that the development of a methodology aimed at improving the analysis of the human rights situation in countries outside the european union when trade and/or investment agreements are launched or concluded is essential. i voted in favour of this report.
in writing. − democracy and the rule of law are the best ways to protect human rights and fundamental freedoms, non-discrimination in all its forms and tolerance towards individuals and communities, and to ensure equality for all. the eu must step up action to stop female genital mutilation, early and forced marriages, honour killings and sex-selective abortions. access to adequate healthcare and information and education on sexual and reproductive health and rights and the well-being of women and girls in all countries is important. the role and participation of women in political, economic and social life are essential, in particular in post-war peace-building processes, in negotiations for a democratic transition, as well as in conflict resolution and reconciliation and stabilisation processes. the eu must work with un women to ensure that women's rights are respected. not only should health education and appropriate programmes for sexual and reproductive health and rights be promoted, but women should also have equitable access to public health systems and adequate gynaecological and obstetrical services.
in writing. − we must be aware that fundamental human rights and freedoms cannot be ignored or disregarded, and that it is essential that they be protected by a system of law. in the interest of respecting human rights worldwide, i would like to highlight the contribution of non-governmental organisations in implementing the 'early warning' function and in supplementing the information provided by the authorities to international bodies. speaking specifically about cases of human rights violations, i would like to express my concern at the decision of the belarusian authorities to expel the ambassador of the kingdom of sweden to the republic of belarus, together with the swedish diplomatic staff accredited to minsk, which has led to a deterioration in relations between the two countries. the european union must maintain pressure on the political regime in belarus.
in writing. - i voted in favour of all the amendments relating to access to family planning and abortion. coming from a country where abortions have been banned for nearly 40 years, i know the trauma such a ban can cause. the right to choose in safe medical conditions must be guaranteed to every woman.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2011 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world and the european union's policy on the matter. i support the increased role and full participation of women in political and economic decision-making processes, especially in post-war peace-building processes, in negotiations for a democratic transition, and in conflict resolution. they also support the increased role of women in reconciliation and stabilisation processes, with a view to raising awareness and paying greater attention to eliminating discrimination against women in the process of democratisation in third countries. while the increasing reliance on information and communications technology infrastructures is likely to create new vulnerabilities and security concerns internationally, many of the decentralised features of the internet that have made it a cyber security concern are precisely the reasons that have made it a powerful tool for human rights advocates living in countries with repressive regimes. i believe that a digital freedom strategy is needed, as well as the development of policies and programmes on cyber security and the fight against cybercrime.
in writing. − as the eu is founded on the principle of respect for human rights, i believe that the legal obligation, as laid down in the treaties, is to put human rights at the heart of all eu and member state policies, without any exception.
in writing. − the fundamental principle on which the european union is founded, namely respect for human rights, must also be reflected in our external actions. experience has shown that it is not enough to create financial instruments for these actions, but that better coordination is also needed to avoid the fragmentation of the present and the inefficiency of spending resources. as regards the neighbourhood policy, i think it would be useful to put more emphasis on dialogue with civil society actors such as ngos, the media, trade unions and educational institutions. they are the authority that can give us a more accurate picture of the political, economic and social situation in their respective countries. as for official relations with these countries, i welcome the new approach in this area: 'more for more', because only by holding the governments of the partner countries to account will we be able to help them implement democratic reforms. i personally express my confidence in the ability of the new eu special representative for human rights to implement the strategy in this regard. i welcome good cooperation with the european parliament, which has repeatedly demonstrated its commitment to fundamental rights, whether in the union or in third countries.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the review of the eu's human rights strategy. the eu is founded on the principle of respect for human rights and has a legal obligation, as laid down in the treaties, to put human rights at the heart of all eu and member state policies, without exception, and at the heart of all international agreements. this renewed policy should lead to a stronger commitment by partner countries to deeper democratic reforms and to respect for fundamental rights and in particular for fundamental rights of the foundation such as freedom of expression, freedom of conscience, religion or thought, freedom of assembly and association. i would remind you that development, democracy and the rule of law are prerequisites for respect for human rights, but they are not equivalent to it, they interact and support each other. i call on the eu to support the establishment of ideals based on the principle of democracy and human rights throughout society, in particular with a view to promoting gender equality and the rights of the child. i also call for impact assessments to cover the full range of human rights, including online rights, which must be understood as an indivisible whole.
in writing. − the eu wishes to deepen and develop its relations with russia and to respect the principles enshrined in the partnership for modernization, based on common interests and a deep commitment to universal values and democratic principles, respect for fundamental human rights and the rule of law. the new agreement should provide a broad, forward-looking framework and produce legally binding effects for the development of relations with russia in the years to come. this agreement is very important, especially for romania, in terms of good neighbourly relations and economic cooperation with russia, especially in the context of the current economic and energy crisis. it is important to promote the eu-russia strategic partnership in order to address global challenges such as non-proliferation, the fight against terrorism, the peaceful resolution of protracted or new conflicts on the basis of the principles of the un charter and applicable international law, security of energy supply, climate change and poverty reduction. russia should actively facilitate the peaceful resolution of frozen conflicts and enhance eu-russia cooperation to resolve the protracted conflicts in moldova and the south caucasus, on the basis of international law and the principles of peaceful conflict resolution.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution containing the european parliament's recommendations to the council, the commission and the european external action service (eeas) on the negotiations on the new eu-russia agreement. given the steadily increasing economic interdependence between the eu and russia, enhanced cooperation and good neighbourly relations between the eu and russia must be considered of major importance for the stability, security and prosperity of both sides. i consider it important to promote the strategic partnership between the eu and russia in order to face global challenges such as non-proliferation, the fight against terrorism, the peaceful settlement of protracted or new conflicts on the basis of the principles of the united nations charter and applicable international law, the security of energy supply, the arctic dimension, climate change and poverty reduction. we recommend the inclusion of a substantial, legally binding chapter on energy, with the aim of guaranteeing the eu's reliable energy supply in an economically efficient manner. we call for such an energy partnership to be based on the principles of transparency, fair competition, elimination of monopolistic behaviour, reciprocity and non-discrimination and to ensure that the principles of the energy charter treaty become an integral part of the new agreement.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution because ukraine will take over the osce presidency in 2013 and the country must promote the principles on which the organisation is built. i also expect that during my presidency ukraine will be actively involved in resolving the frozen conflict in the transnistrian region. encouraging the 5+2 negotiations is the best solution, and a first step to making progress would be to replace the military peacekeeping mission with a civilian one. ukraine will also have to pursue respect for democracy in all osce member states, including at the national level. one issue that continues to concern me is the use of the judiciary in ukraine for political purposes through selective actions targeting exclusively members of the opposition. such practices must end and political prisoners like yulia tymoshenko must be released.
in writing. - i voted for the resolution on the situation in ukraine because ukraine is a european country with a european identity, which has a common history and common values with the countries of the european union. i support the continued support for the european aspirations of the ukrainian people and stress the importance of working with ukraine, including civil society (ngos, religious organisations, etc.) to improve democratic institutions, strengthen the rule of law, ensure media freedom and progress on key economic reforms. i consider it important that the visa facilitation agreement between the european union and ukraine has been signed, which, compared to the agreement currently in force, introduces clear improvements in the issuing of visas to ukrainian citizens. we call on the council to move forward with the dialogue on visa liberalisation between the eu and ukraine in the run-up to the eastern partnership summit in vilnius in november 2013.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on the 2012 interim report on albania. i welcome albania's progress in meeting the political criteria for eu membership. constructive political dialogue is an important element in achieving concrete results on the 12 key priorities, namely the proper functioning of the parliament, the adoption of legislation by qualified majority, the appointment of the ombudsman and the hearings and voting processes in the main institutions, and the amendment of the legislative framework for elections. i believe that social reforms and their effective implementation are as important as reforms on the implementation of legislation and infrastructure development in order to ensure stability and social cohesion. i welcome the strengthening of the dialogue between civil society and the albanian government and stress the need to take advantage of the positive state of this relationship to consolidate the progress made. i call on the albanian government to fully guarantee respect for labour law in the public and private sectors and to ensure respect for trade union rights by strengthening the practice of mediation for the settlement of labour disputes. i am concerned about the absence of an action plan on employment and the reduction in the budget for the implementation of social protection assistance reforms. i call on the albanian authorities to draw up an action plan in this area.
in writing. − i believe that at eu level, when the necessary restructuring of the steel sector takes place, fair conditions of competition in this sector throughout the union must be respected.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution on the eu steel industry, because the steel industry is of strategic importance for the eu economy and because it is in the interest of the whole european union to maintain its core industrial activities and to ensure security of supply through domestic production. the european steel industry is facing substantial decreased demand, strong competition from imports from third countries with different regulations and standards, difficult access to raw materials and higher costs, which have led to restructuring, mergers and redundancies. i would stress that steel plays a key role in ensuring the competitiveness of strategic downstream industries, which would suffer from a reduced european steel industry and become dependent on imports from third countries, which would make them vulnerable. a competitive european steel industry is the foundation for development and value creation for many major industrial sectors, such as the automotive, construction and mechanical engineering sectors. i call on the commission to draw up and present as soon as possible a european action plan for the steel sector. we call on the commission to monitor closely developments in european steelworks whose integrity is at risk, in order to ensure competitiveness and employment in the european steel industry.
in writing. − the european union is one of the most important global actors in the fight against climate change and environmental protection. it is important that the industrial development of the union be carried out in compliance with these imperatives. at the same time, the sustainable development of the european union depends crucially on the ability of the institutions and the member states to achieve the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. at the same time, we must not forget that the union is the result of a policy of integration of the steel industries of the western countries. in view of the increasingly serious impact of the economic crisis on member states and european societies, it is essential to take measures to increase the competitiveness of the steel industry and to create a solid basis for sustainable development.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this resolution because i too am concerned about the impact on the health of the local population of dioxin emissions from the taranto steelworks. although parts of the plant have already been closed, further efforts are needed to reduce dioxin emissions. these have a negative impact not only on the local population but also on the environment. i also believe that the 'polluter pays' principle needs to be applied more firmly. however, all measures taken must take account of maintaining the competitiveness of the european steel sector. it has been badly affected by the economic crisis and, in this respect, the commission and the member states must prevent the relocation of steel mills and production outside the european union.
in writing. − i believe that new policies for the steel industry must be developed at eu level to stimulate growth and employment in the current economic crisis.
in writing. − mr president, the alarming situation in taranto is not unique within the eu. a lack of modernisation in steel plants from different european locations leads to harmful emissions and dangerous effects on the local population’s health. therefore i call on the commission to identify suitable possibilities for encouraging investments in this industry. the member states should also support modernisation of plants that comply with eu environmental law, in order to re-establish an ecological balance. only when we start encouraging competitiveness and sustainability will the steel industry grow again. thank you!
in writing. − i voted for the parliament's resolution on a new sustainable and competitive steel industry (based on a petition received), as the petitioners expressed deep concern about the extremely high levels of dioxin emissions from the ilva steelworks in taranto, which have had and continue to have a significant, negative and lasting impact on the health of the local population. parts of the ilva steelworks have recently been closed by the italian authorities and the authorities and the current owners of the plant have an obligation to ensure that harmful emissions are drastically reduced. the steel industry, which employs some 360 000 people, is a crucial economic sector in the union. parliament has a duty and a responsibility to show solidarity with the employees of the steelworks ilva and their families. in the context of eu industrial policy, it is strategically essential to prevent the relocation of steel mills and production outside the european union and to ensure the safety of the european workforce. we call on the commission and the council to develop a new policy for the steel industry that will stimulate growth and employment in the face of the economic crisis and that is compatible with the health and safety of all eu citizens and residents.
author. − the takeover of the city of goma by m23 rebels has clearly demonstrated rwandan control over the congolese province of north kivu. this foreign involvement is one of the facets of the endless war that is traumatizing the democratic republic of congo. this is not just a civil conflict, but an inter-african war for control of the resources of the great lakes region. and because this is the bloodiest conflict since world war ii, the international community is obliged to push the warring parties to continue the talks that started in kampala. in the surrounding area of goma, there are over 130,000 refugees, many of them housed in schools that have ceased to function, and children have been forcibly recruited as soldiers. the population is deprived of basic means of subsistence and there have been numerous rapes and mass executions. the 11-day occupation of goma must prompt an urgent re-evaluation of the world's largest peacekeeping mission. i don't think the expected 2,000 additional blue-helmet troops and the possible use of drones are sufficient solutions to the complicated conflict equation in the region. after the un mission has proven, in so many situations, incapable of protecting civilians, i believe that a new strategy is needed to combat the insurgency, its effects on the civilian population, but also to control the use of revenues from the exploitation of huge natural reserves in the financing of rebel militias.
if i count correctly, this is the sixth time since the beginning of this mandate that we have discussed the grave and very grave situation in the democratic republic of congo. we have discussed this issue, and the resolution we have today is very close to the one that was adopted there and at the acp-eu joint parliamentary assembly in paramaribo a few days ago. one of the conclusions of these discussions is the need for coordination with regional partners, with the united nations. in particular, i believe that support for the implementation of the measures decided at the high level meeting of the international conference of the great lakes region on 24 november 2012 is very important.
the author. - the text of our joint resolution is based on several recent incidents in the town of dharmapuri in tamil nadu and in the village of dabra in hisar, incidents which show us that discrimination against the dalit caste is still a tragic reality in india. mrs lochbihler, our colleague, explained what dalit means, a term that has replaced the old term intubabili, which is much more present in the ordinary discourse. moreover, the mobilization around the imposition of this new name shows that, in the end, the cause we are defending here has won international support. but while we recognize the efforts that the indian government has made to eliminate caste discrimination, we obviously want better implementation of the legislation, and also knowing, of course, that eliminating discrimination is a long process, because it requires a change of mindset, we think that there are some concrete steps that need to be taken, and it's very simple to explain. for example, we need an independent police force that is not corrupt to record all cases, all complaints of those who feel discriminated against. we are far from that, unfortunately, in india. i also believe that the indian parliament needs to pass the bill to ban humiliating sanitation work, which directly affects this caste and keeps them in the plight of marginalization in which they find themselves.
the european parliament has also called for the commission to take action to combat the illegal trade in human beings. unfortunately, women are doubly discriminated against, for non-caste and for being women, as is the case with the dalits. they are often victims of marginalization, ill-treatment and rape, without the possibility of real and effective access to justice. it's a situation that the indian authorities have a duty to remedy, especially since it's a major segment of the population: one in six indians is a dalit, that is, excluded from the caste system. in fact, india needs to enforce its own constitution, which prohibits caste discrimination, and enforce the representation quotas that have improved the situation of dalits, such as in employment. i also believe it is important that the european union, especially through the high representative for foreign affairs and the special representative for human rights, develop a new strategy against such discrimination and that the member states include this issue in their dialogue with the indian authorities in order to encourage them to adopt concrete programmes.
in writing. – i deplore the alarming discrimination against dalits still occurring in india. although abolished through the provisions of the constitution of this country, the discriminatory and untouchability practices still affect millions of people. india is the largest democracy in the world. however it is unacceptable that justice in this country is not able to address properly violence against human rights. today, i urge the government of india to reinforce the legislation protecting dalits and any other vulnerable groups. indian authorities must ensure the intervention of police in gross acts of violence against people and their assets. in parallel, serious efforts must be made in order to ensure that the judicial system of the country will guarantee protection and justice whenever these atrocities are reported.
