in writing. looking at the text of the danish presidency's programme, i think it will be of high quality and it has the potential to succeed. denmark shall relinquish the role of chair of the euro area stabilisation negotiations. on the one hand, this is understandable it is not a member of the monetary union. however, modesty on the part of danish officials may be unnecessary. the eurozone situation is a european issue and a neutral negotiator could certainly not be in the wrong. but this decision must be accepted and focused on equally important issues such as the drive to restore economic growth and job creation. but i must say that not all the points on the presidency's agenda have pleased me. although the text of the programme does not mention the financial transaction tax, the danish minister for economic affairs has already stated that it will not support this tax. that is an extremely unfortunate decision. it is now time to take a clear stand on financial sector regulation. it is now time to make clear who is responsible for the crisis and who is avoiding the costs of it. if the presidency's agenda section has a chapter 'responsible europe' with a subchapter 'strengthened financial regulation and supervision' but it lacks such an important proposal, then i don't think it's very credible. nevertheless, i will hold my fingers crossed for my danish colleagues to make sure that this difficult period for the eu is passed with dignity.
in writing. a small country with big ambitions. this is another way of describing the priorities of the danish presidency. europe is in big trouble right now. economic, environmental, demographic, employment and other problems. the responsibility of each member state for its economy and budget is the number one priority, but it is also the determining factor for the fulfilment of other priorities. at the same time, however, if we are to tackle the problems of the european union, the cooperation of the eu's institutional triangle, i.e. the commission, parliament and council, must be a priority. but the practice so far is more about not accepting each other. it is common practice for the commission and parliament to agree, but the council ignores this, because the individual representatives of the member states defend their own national interests first, and then the common, pan-european interests. denmark therefore faces a great challenge to try to do what its predecessors failed to do. it is mutual respect and cooperation between all member states and the european institutions for the benefit of all citizens.
in writing. according to the latest eurobarometer survey, citizens want the union to focus on two main issues. the first is the coordination of the economies of the member states. citizens feel threatened by the crisis and expect common action at european level. the danish presidency has set itself realistic targets in this area. their ambition is to be consistent and to implement the measures adopted by the council and, consequently, by this parliament. but citizens want coordination, not centralization. i therefore welcome the fact that the danish presidency of the council is rejecting the introduction of a european financial transaction tax. the second main priority for citizens is to tackle poverty and social exclusion. denmark could build on the results of the hungarian presidency in the social field and in promoting solidarity between generations. improving the conditions for the family, which forms the basic social network, should be one of the main priorities of european states, especially in times of crisis. paradoxically, however, it was during the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations that the family fell out of the political priority list.
in writing. - the european union is in what may be the deepest crisis in its history. under pressure from germany, european leaders agreed on a new treaty to tighten fiscal discipline in the eurozone, deepen economic integration. these steps are intended to help resolve the debt crisis. however, the model of the new treaty, approved at the european summit, was vetoed by the uk, which sought to obtain concessions in exchange for supporting changes to existing eu treaties. bypassing the british veto, the eu's top officials, led by france and germany, are pushing the new agreement beyond the eu's legal framework. the crisis in the monetary union is a consequence of macroeconomic imbalances. it is not the result of irresponsible management, and unless we are sufficiently aware of this fact, recipes based on this logic will not work either. france and germany have, in essence, notified their own decision without consulting it by the standard methods and the other member states. if the eu is to operate on such a principle and if the franco-german proposal is to be implemented institutionally in a way that is, in my view, totally undemocratic and contrary to the fundamental values of the union, then the democratic legitimacy of the process is indeed in question. i believe that if we sacrifice democracy to the power games of the most powerful european nations, it will be a literal defeat of civilization.
in writing. − i could not vote for the joint resolution on the conclusions of the last european council. i do not agree that this parliament should deny member states the right to agree among themselves as equal partners in solving pressing economic problems. if europe is to successfully manage the crisis, member states must regain the confidence of financial markets. the only right way to gain that trust is to take responsibility. looking for other ways to borrow money for inefficient government and european projects is exactly the kind of thinking that got us into this crisis. it's the road to new public debt, the road to hell. i cannot therefore support a resolution which calls for the introduction of project bonds, the introduction of a financial transaction tax and stabilisation bonds. it is true that if we are to overcome the crisis, it is not enough to reassess the level of welfare guaranteed by the state. conditions need to be created that encourage citizens' initiative, facilitate their entrepreneurship and increase labour productivity. but europe is diverse and centralisation creates more problems than it solves. even if we call it the 'community method'.
the legislative changes made by your government are of concern to the european commission and the european parliament, as according to many expert analyses they violate hungary's contractual obligations towards the european union. i know, mr. orban, that you do not like to hear criticism of your government, and i am convinced that if it were not for the fact that you urgently need to borrow money from us to save your bankrupt economy, you would not have stooped to this discussion about your political failings. but you are dependent on the help of your european partners, who you have so far only ridiculed for their fair criticism, and of your neighbours, to whom your parliament speaker lázsló kövér publicly suggests that the best way to deal with them is by military force. however, mr orbán, what you are doing in your country, we feel obliged to help the hungarian people in their difficult economic situation. to help the hungarian people, but not the regime that rules there.
mr president, i would like to draw attention to another problem, a very important one, which has been mentioned very little here, and that is that the new constitution, which is being criticised here for its lack of democracy, has also opened up the possibility of another very destabilising step, namely the granting of the right to vote to minorities living in neighbouring countries. this was preceded by the granting of hungarian citizenship to minorities, but there would be nothing strange if this hungarian citizenship was granted on the basis of someone having permanent residence, family ties or working in the respective country. but this citizenship is granted on a purely ethnic basis, and this ethnic basis is creating destabilization in the entire region. i am sure that the commission will soon have a problem with this too. i am very surprised that my colleagues in the epp do not see this, because it is the atmosphere of nationalism that prevails in hungary today, a nationalism that looks back to the past, to the 19th century, instead of addressing positive issues.
in writing. a few weeks ago, the western press was very vocal about hungary. why is it that a central european eu member state whose conservative government successfully held the eu presidency last year has become so important? i find the situation that has been afflicting hungary for some time politically and even morally unacceptable. the unfounded, politically overheated accusations that this house has made against the hungarian government are rejected. in the economic and social context of the current crisis, the eu must provide support and a reliable background for its own member states. it is therefore not appropriate to politically attack a member state in an economically difficult situation. hungary has committed itself to comply with the legislative amendments urged by the european commission, as respect for eu values and the community legal order is essential for hungary. only those who question this fact do not know the country and its leaders. the principle of solidarity, which is often mentioned, must apply equally to all member states. in all such cases, the use of double standards is to be condemned. a significant majority of hungarian voters still support the right-wing conservative government. this, and your peace marches in support of the government, are not reported by the left-wing and liberal press, which is waging an unprecedented campaign against the civil hungarian state. a fair trial - that's what he deserves, and that's what the hungarian democracy expects.
the success of the un climate conference in durban can perhaps be attributed to the fact that we have agreed, that we will agree. the strong words and declarations of the parties before the un conference did not translate into concrete, ambitious and legally binding solutions. the final drafting of the universal convention is expected in 2015, but it was not due to become legally binding until 2020, which is 8 years away. many of the world's major powers and also the biggest polluters left the conference feeling satisfied that they had avoided the new global rules. it seems that the delegation of the russian union was not sufficiently prepared to push its agenda and to get countries such as the united states, russia, china and india, brazil, to actively participate in global climate protection strategies, and i sincerely regret that.
in writing. at the turn of november and december last year, a conference on climate change was held in durban, south africa. the need to keep global average temperature rise to below two degrees celsius was one of the key themes of this international forum. as i said last year, this objective is also one of the european union's top priorities in environmental matters. but it's hard to judge the outcome of this conference. on the one hand, the durban conference paved the way for a joint legally binding agreement to reduce the increase in greenhouse gas emissions and to keep the global average temperature rise below 1.5 degrees celsius, or the two-degree limit. but it is still only a pathway to a binding agreement. but most importantly, we have found a compromise between the world's largest emitters and the united states, because only together can we find a way forward on climate change.
i would like to congratulate our colleague karl-heinz, and he is not a member of the green party, so we see that the jpp can also do a great job in this field. inadequately treated or even untreated waste electrical and electronic equipment poses a significant threat to the environment and the health of people living in the european union. the rapidly increasing volumes of this waste require a rapid response, including the adoption of modern and responsible legislation to encourage increased separate collection and recycling. i believe that the eu and the member states need to clearly guide businesses towards better resource management, including through the recovery of discarded but still usable equipment or parts thereof. sustainable production is closely linked to the development of innovation and the intelligent reuse of already available resources.
i am convinced that simplifying the registration and authorisation of biocidal products must lead above all to ensuring a high level of protection of human health and the environment in which they live. particular attention in this case must be paid to the protection of children and pregnant women. substances that have been identified as carcinogenic, mutagenic, toxic or toxic for reproduction, bioaccumulative and endocrine disrupting substances constitute a health threat in particular. i therefore agree with the explicit prohibition of the approval of such active substances and the citizens of the european union must be assured that no such dangerous substances are present in everyday items of use, and in particular in drinking water, food or materials and articles intended to come into contact with food. i also welcome the fact that harmonisation is possible at european level, but the costs for smes should not be devastating.
the european parliament's recommendation for second reading on a regulation on the placing on the market and use of biocidal products amends the council's and parliament's common position, to which the council has adopted a large part of parliament's proposals, but only in an amended form. in the interests of consistency and clarity, it was therefore necessary to remove a number of inconsistencies in the text of the proposed amendments. the position of the rapporteur, christy klaß, who states that in order to achieve the stated objectives it is necessary to eliminate the shortcomings of the authorisation directive 98/8/ec and to simplify the whole decision-making process, is legitimate and should, i think, be supported by all. the rapporteur's warning about duplication of labelling rules with other legislation suggests that we should monitor more closely the different links and related legal measures in our legislative work. the safety of handling biocidal products, especially in the professional user environment, is also a serious related issue, the solution of which will have to continue to be monitored very closely.
in an effort to keep agricultural production prices stable, we are looking at various measures to eliminate the adverse effects of rising input prices for agricultural production. given that we cannot really keep the prices of energy, machinery, blood products, fertilisers, pesticides, seeds or water stable in the long term, i have no illusions that we can succeed in this endeavour. in an open market environment, higher input and production costs are always justified to be reflected in the production price of the product concerned. i therefore think that in our efforts to tackle the food chain, we should focus more on tackling imbalances and inequalities between primary agricultural production and the processing sector or trade chains, as this is where the most significant price distortions occur to the detriment of primary production. i do not want to say that the input for agricultural enterprises, for example the supply of seeds, is all right. however, the most significant price distortions, i think, occur in the chain between primary production and processors or trade.
the state is to enter into market relations only when self-regulation fails. this is also true in the food sector. the supply of food to the european market is seriously lacking, and not only farmers but also consumers are suffering. but we see that the food sector is also responding. stakeholders from farms to traders are engaged in a dialogue to define unfair trading practices. however, all parties claim that it is wrong to claim that it is unfair to require instruments such as standard contracts, payment and delivery terms or even product listing fees. it is only when they are used to exploit a market position that they become unfair. the self-regulation process is a dialogue between all parties involved. it takes time for it to come to fruition. although you say that patience has been enough, i call for restraint in dealing with ... (speech is suspended).
the european union's activities in the field of space use are focused in particular on the galileo projects and the european earth monitoring programme. galileo in particular could be expected to start providing its first initial services to the european public in the near future. for example, testing of the life safety service of this system should also be launched from 2014. as the system is being built as interoperable with both gps and lonas already in operation, it will also be possible to engage in international cooperation of global navigation systems programmes with its operation. given the rapid expansion of space services and the advantages that galileo offers over competing systems, it can be expected to bring us appropriate social and economic benefits in the coming period. the commission has, however, not yet been able to answer the question of the continued operation, financing of the european earth monitoring programme as of 2014, which has not yet been resolved. therefore, i expect that we will... (the member's speech was suspended)
i think that 90 to 115 kg per person of food wasted per year is a good enough reason for food waste to become a political priority. continuing at the current rate of waste in the agri-food chain is not only intolerable in the long term and irresponsible towards the poorest sections of the population, but also has negative effects on the environment and brings high losses to businesses and the economy. rationalizing the production, storage, processing and subsequent distribution and consumption of up to 50% of healthy and usable, edible food lost annually in the eu therefore requires the development of a comprehensive european strategy. but the 70 million europeans who live below the poverty line are (interruption of the member's speech) ...
in times of crisis and austerity, it is impossible to ignore the fact that up to half of the food produced is thrown away before it reaches the consumer. i would like to thank the rapporteur for bringing this issue to the floor of the house. the legislature is also to blame for the current state of affairs. the obligation for manufacturers to indicate the minimum shelf life and the date of use has caused 18% of food to end up as waste, simply because people do not consider it safe. in some states, the law allows the price of a product to be reduced below cost even on the day of consumption. this needs to change. it's a shame the report doesn't mention food banks. these nonprofit organizations are working to replace food waste with food distribution to those who need it most. we throw food away, and at the same time the european union pays food aid. let's support the food banks instead.
in writing. the world's population is growing, resources are limited, and the poorest groups lack access to food. on the other hand, food that is fully usable is being thrown away all over the world: from losses in harvesting and storage, to unsafe transport and packaging errors, to consumers' bad habits in buying and using food products. in the last 40 years, the world's food waste has increased by 50 percent. producing food that we don't consume is a high cost of energy and natural resources (especially water), and greenhouse gas emissions. approximately 89 million tonnes of food wasted in europe produces 170 million tonnes of co2 per year. in addition to the environmental damage caused by food production, the costs of waste treatment and disposal must be taken into account. the fight against food waste must become a priority in the european political agenda. the commission, the council and the member states must take concrete measures to halve food waste by 2025. we need to inform citizens not only about the causes and consequences of waste but also about ways to reduce it.
i was unable to vote in favour of the joint resolution on the conclusions of the last european council. i do not agree that this parliament should deny member states the right to agree among themselves as equal partners on urgent economic issues. if europe is to successfully manage the crisis, member states must regain the confidence of financial markets. the only right way to gain that trust is to take responsibility. looking for other ways to borrow money for inefficient state and european projects is the kind of thinking that got us into this crisis. it's the road to new public debt, the road to hell. therefore, i cannot support a resolution that pushes for the creation of project bonds, the introduction of a fiscal transaction tax and stabilization bonds.
one of the fastest growing waste streams in the european union is that of old electrical equipment. we must do everything we can to recycle them in a professional manner so that we can reduce the loss of raw materials. to prevent environmental and health damage, we must strive to ensure proper collection. impact assessments show that 85% of such waste is already collected within the eu member states, but only 33% of it is properly treated. all actors involved in collection and treatment should behave in accordance with the directive by maintaining the systems already in place and proven. unfortunately, our experience so far has shown that the current directive is interpreted in different ways by the member states. we must strive to ensure that the newly acceded countries can also follow up on the provisions of the directive. this includes the selective collection of waste. large-scale illegal shipments outside the eu could also be reduced through selective collection. i believe that the costs of collection and treatment should be included in the price of the product to provide an incentive to reduce costs. i was in favor of the motion.
mr president, the question of food wastage is a growing european problem that is reflected right along the food supply chain. in this context, i would like to welcome the commission proposal on food wastage reduction by 2020. i hope that the report we have voted on today, which i supported, will contribute to this objective. i agree with commissioner potočnik that in the recent situation, where many countries of the world have been suffering from food shortages, the food waste produced in europe is morally, economically and environmentally irresponsible. above all, i think that people should be better informed, not only on the causes and effects of waste, but also on ways of reducing it. i support parliament’s request to declare 2013 the european year against food waste, which would serve as a key information and awareness-raising tool on this important issue.
in writing. − in order to ensure legal certainty and transparency, it is necessary to lay down rules for transit through the international transit areas of airports. nationals of third countries subject to the visa requirement pursuant to article 3 (1) and (2) of regulation (ec) no 810/2009 who are holders of a valid visa issued by a member state, canada, japan or the united states of america or who are holders of a valid residence permit issued by a member state, andorra, canada, japan, san marino or the united states of america shall be exempt from the requirement to hold an airport transit visa. the proposal is limited to technical amendments to the provisions on airport visas. the amendment provides that third-country nationals holding a valid visa or residence permit issued by a member state which does not (or does not yet) fully apply the provisions of the schengen acquis (united kingdom, ireland, cyprus, bulgaria and romania) are exempted from the requirement to hold an airport transit visa. it is useless to re-check a person who is already in possession of a visa or residence permit, since that person has already been checked and has therefore already been recognised as not posing a risk of illegal immigration. in addition, the proposal should reduce the administrative burden on member states.
in writing. − the european union and georgia have concluded an agreement aimed at mutual protection of geographical indications covering a wide range of agricultural products such as cheeses, oils and fats, bread and bakery products, fruit, vegetables, cereals, fresh meat and meat products, fresh fish and seafood, wine, spirits and beer. the agreement is a step taken by both partners in line with the partnership and cooperation agreement and is the first of its kind with a partner in the european neighbourhood. it can also be seen as a positive step towards a wider eu-georgia trade relationship, as it gives georgia the ability to negotiate and conclude a substantive agreement with the eu on key trade-related issues, including technical commitments. also, georgian agriculture is a typical sector providing basic needs and the livelihood of half of the georgian population depends on it. any step to strengthen the prospects for agricultural exports is therefore welcome. this agreement should further intensify the export trend. since it brings particular benefits to both partners, i believe that it is appropriate for parliament to give its consent to its conclusion.
in writing. − the world forum for the harmonization of vehicle regulations (article 29 working party) the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) provides a unique framework for globally harmonised vehicle regulations involving participants from all over the world, but in particular from the countries with the largest motor vehicle production. the benefits of these harmonised rules are clear in the areas of road safety, environmental protection and trade. the article 29 working party is a permanent working group within the un institutional framework, functioning as a global forum to enable open discussion on motor vehicle regulations. 126 regulations have been approved by the unece so far. the european union has so far adopted 106 regulations. however, it has not yet acceded to unece regulation no 29 on uniform provisions for the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of occupants of the cab of a commercial vehicle. i believe that it is appropriate for parliament to give its consent to the draft unece decision no 29 on uniform provisions for the approval of vehicles with regard to the protection of occupants in the cab of a commercial vehicle, as this unece regulation will make it possible to apply the same standards in many countries, thus removing red tape and allowing european industry to participate in competition on a larger scale and under simpler conditions.
in writing. − the world forum of the united nations economic commission for europe (unece) for the harmonization of vehicle regulations (wp.29) provides a unique framework for the worldwide harmonization of vehicle regulations. the benefits of such harmonised rules are tangible in the areas of road safety, environmental protection and trade. to date, 126 regulations have been approved by the unece and the european union has acceded to 106 unece regulations. two new draft regulations have been drawn up at unece level and are ready for voting: the first concerns pedestrian safety and the second concerns light sources using light emitting diodes (leds). i believe that parliament should give its consent to the draft council decision on the eu position on the draft unece regulation on pedestrian safety and also on the proposal on led light sources, because these unece regulations will make it possible to apply the same standards in many countries, thus reducing the bureaucratic burden and allowing european industry to be simpler and more competitive.
in writing. − international air transport relations between member states and third countries are usually governed by bilateral air service agreements. the eu court of justice ruled in 2002 that nationality clauses in bilateral agreements are contrary to eu law. they allow a third country to refuse, withdraw or suspend the authorisation or privileges of an air carrier which bears the mark of an eu member state but which is not majority owned by that member state or its nationals and is not subject to effective control by that member state or its nationals. this is considered to be discrimination against eu carriers which are established in the territory of a member state but are owned and controlled by nationals of other member states. the commission has therefore negotiated an agreement replacing certain provisions in the existing 19 bilateral air services agreements concluded between eu member states and indonesia. it was signed on 29 june 2011 and both parties to it have agreed to comply with this agreement from the date of its signature until its entry into force. the council must obtain the consent of the european parliament before it can conclude it. i think it is appropriate for the committee on transport and tourism to vote in favour of the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing. − if you have the memorandum of cooperation (moc) aims to formalise and strengthen relations and cooperation between the eu and the international civil aviation organisation (icao). it was signed on 28 april in montreal and on 4 may 2011 in brussels and has been provisionally applied since then. icao was established in 1944 by the chicago convention as a specialised agency of the united nations. its current 190 member states cooperate in the fields of aviation safety, security, air traffic management and environmental protection. the overall objective of the moc is to guarantee greater harmonisation of standards and closer coordination of relevant activities. so far, only aviation safety provisions have been developed. the parties agree to cooperate closely and coordinate their activities in the field of security. the approach is based on a mutual commitment to achieve the highest possible level of aviation safety worldwide and the global harmonisation of safety standards and recommended practices (sarp). the identification of unsafe areas and air carriers is a common core interest and a significant part of the joint activities. i believe that parliament should be involved in strengthening the eu's position within icao and it is therefore appropriate that the committee on transport and tourism give its consent to the conclusion of a memorandum of cooperation between the european union and the international civil aviation organisation, thus providing a framework for enhanced cooperation.
in writing. − the european parliament oversees virtually all the activities of the european union. the very process of appointment to each post enables him to exercise a supervisory function not only in relation to the european institutions but also in relation to its other components. the recent re-allocation of seats in the various parliamentary committees took place at the opening plenary session in 2012, which is currently underway. leaving aside for the moment the composition of the groups themselves, in terms of the representation of the members of the political groups, i believe that in any event it is necessary to take account of expertise or previous experience when dealing with the relevant issues. last but not least, it is important to ensure that gender equality is respected, as despite many successes in women's empowerment, there are still many issues in different areas (social, cultural, political and economic) of life where women do not have the same conditions as men.
in writing. −directive 2002/96/ec on waste electrical and electronic equipment (weee) was adopted on 27 january 2003 and entered into force on 13 february 2003. member states were required to transpose the requirements of the directive by 13 august 2004. since the adoption of the directive, the causes of the problems and the reasons for collecting and recycling weee have not changed. experience with the implementation of the weee directive in the early years has shown technical, legal and administrative problems resulting in unintentionally costly efforts by market players and administrations, continued environmental damage, low levels of innovation in waste collection and treatment, unequal conditions or even distortions of competition and unnecessary administrative burden. the commission is committed to creating a better regulatory environment that is at the same time simple, understandable, effective and legally enforceable. the specific objectives of the review of the weee directive were therefore to: reduce administrative costs while maintaining a level of environmental protection; implement the directive through enhanced compliance and reduced system abuse; limit the environmental impacts of the collection, treatment and recovery of weee to the level where the greatest net benefits to society are achieved. if the necessary measures were not taken, the problems and irregularities in the matter would continue. for that reason, the directive was amended accordingly.
in writing. − i really welcome the proposed revision, the agreement between the council and the ep has sent a very important signal. europe is concerned about environmental protection on the european continent, but also elsewhere. electronic waste in industrialised countries is growing three times faster than conventional waste, a result of the rapid pace of technological innovation and the short lifespan of many electronic products. efficient management of electrical and electronic waste is a huge opportunity to increase the amount of waste collected. the whole life cycle of these products, from production to distribution to disposal, is an issue that this directive should improve. the new targets are indeed ambitious, so i see as an important additional task the need to ensure that the costs of back-up do not pass on additional costs to customers. the controls carried out by the member states will be of crucial importance in this area.
in writing. − i supported the proposal for the proposed directive, although i sometimes feel that we are going about this from the wrong end. we spend most of our time and energy dealing with the consequences. we see a huge amount of electrical and electronic waste, which is in many cases very toxic; we also see that additional raw materials are needed to produce new electronics. we think it's fair that the cost of collecting and treating electrical and electronic waste is borne by the producer and ultimately by the buyer of the product. the proposal draws on these considerations. but the real problem is the lifetime of electrical and electronic equipment. the introduction of a mandatory minimum warranty period of two years seems to be a significant step towards higher quality until we realise that the word minimum is understood by most manufacturers as a threshold that should not be exceeded, as it would increase their costs. so i think that until producers and then consumers start to see recycling as a cost-comparable item to significantly extend the life of products, our efforts to use electrical and electronic waste will have limited results.
in writing. − biocidal products are necessary for protection against organisms harmful to human or animal health and for protection against organisms which cause damage to natural or industrial products. the purpose of this regulation is to enhance the free movement of biocidal products within the european union. in order to remove as far as possible barriers to trade in biocidal products resulting from different levels of protection in the member states, harmonised rules should be laid down for the approval of active substances and for the placing on the market and use of such products, including rules on mutual recognition of authorisations and parallel trade. in order to ensure legal certainty, it is necessary to establish a union list of active substances authorised for use in biocidal products and to provide for a procedure to assess whether an active substance can be included in that list. the proposal also aims to simplify data protection rules, avoid duplication in the design of studies, improve the harmonisation of fee systems in the member states, introduce parallel trade rules for biocidal products and include products or materials treated with biocidal products within the scope of the directive.
in writing. − protecting the environment and working towards a more sustainable and greener agriculture is one of the biggest challenges facing the european union. i am aware of the economic interests behind this problem and the impact it will have on thousands of families across europe. i consider it very important to introduce the precautionary principle in accordance with the legislation already in force for chemical products. i also hope that in the future we will make the further progress needed to guarantee greater transparency for consumers, which will allow for informed choice. the potential of biocidal products is clear, and there is a need to further strengthen and promote profitability and scalability in the european union, which could improve the quality of life of our citizens. this must be the cornerstone of eu legislation in this area. i hope that the european union will continue along this path for the future.
in writing. − biocidal products are designed to kill, repel and destroy harmful organisms. many of them can be harmful to humans or animals. each country therefore monitors their use very closely, making sure that they are used only when absolutely necessary and that they do not endanger people. a regulation on biocidal products, which harmonises the rules on the market for such products, is necessary for two reasons. in particular, it gives citizens of the european union the assurance that each manufacturer must meet the same strict conditions for his product to appear on the market. manufacturers must therefore maintain the same standards in protecting human health and the environment. however, this uniform approach is also beneficial for producers. it reduces their costs for certifying their products and allows them to supply their products to any eu country without having to go through the difficult authorisation procedures many times over. this creates scope for innovation in biocidal products and improves their availability. the competitive environment is improving and this has a positive effect on prices. in addition, the centralised authorisation system also contributes, inter alia, to better consumer protection.
in writing. − the european parliament, in its resolution of 7 september 2010 on 'a fair income for farmers: a better functioning food supply chain in europe', adopted a number of recommendations aimed at addressing the problems that arise at the level of the production chain below agricultural production, with a view to increasing farmers' incomes. significant policy changes to eu competition law were proposed and recommendations were made to incorporate certain measures into the draft legislation. following this resolution, the commission adopted a communication in november 2010 announcing the adoption of measures on this issue. i believe that farmers need to be supported in improving their agronomic and environmental performance in order to be able to cope with the new climate, environmental and economic challenges they will face. the greening measures are likely to require farmers to reintegrate the externalized production costs associated with better management of biodiversity, water and soil nutrients and support should be provided for this purpose. however, it is assumed that these initial costs will bring long-term benefits to farmers, such as resilience to climate instability, healthier and more fertile soils and less susceptibility to disease. if they learn to make better use of the opportunities that come with inputs, they will also be better able to withstand price fluctuations.
in writing. − if you have the strategic importance of agriculture in ensuring food security in the european union requires that the member states and the commission take effective and prompt measures and incentives for its sustainable development and competitiveness. while agriculture is subject to competition rules, market realities in many member states show that the abuse of a dominant market position by input suppliers is commonplace. the high concentration in the agricultural inputs sector should therefore signal to the antitrust authorities of the member states that anti-competitive activities may be taking place, such as the abuse of a dominant market position to the detriment of producers but also of final consumers. improving competition in agriculture should be ensured by the competent authorities of the member states by monitoring the situation on the relevant markets more closely and imposing dissuasive fines in the event of infringements.
in writing. − most farmers and agricultural enterprises are currently facing excessive increases in production costs, with prices paid for agricultural products by buyers and, in particular, large distribution companies not being sufficient to cover these additional costs for farmers. this threatens the survival of many farms, has serious consequences for the food supply chain in the european union and exacerbates the problem of trade balances. this results in an increasing need for imports and at the same time leads to dependence on unstable foreign markets. it is important to ensure fair relations between distributors and suppliers, while at the same time there should be an effort to eliminate unfair practices in the food supply chain and, in particular, it also appears appropriate and necessary to make available reliable information on food prices throughout the union in order to ensure transparency.
in writing. − space activities and applications are crucial to the growth and development of our society. they often have a direct impact on the daily lives of citizens. in this context, space policy constitutes an instrument for the union's internal and external policies. space is a space for knowledge, for new products and for new forms of industrial cooperation. it is therefore a driver of innovation, contributing to competitiveness, growth and job creation. the sector directly contributes to the europe 2020 strategy objectives of ensuring smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. space policy thus constitutes an integral part of the industrial policy flagship initiative. the european parliament has always advocated an ambitious european space policy, setting itself objectives such as promoting technological and scientific progress, innovation and competitiveness, or seeking to enable european citizens to benefit from space applications, and thus to give europe a greater say on the international space scene.
in writing. − as an education policy-maker, i consider research and development to be of paramount importance, as it is what drives innovation. we all know that the european union has considerable reservations in this area. the new space strategy is a great opportunity to catch up with the competition. i really welcome the commission proposal com ((2011) 0152) which represents the first step in a comprehensive space strategy for the eu. however, i find the lack of clear priorities problematic. it is therefore necessary to clearly set out all the details in terms of technical possibilities and, in particular, in terms of funding. the supervisory and coordination mechanisms should also be clearly set out in order to harmonise the resources to be provided by the member states, the eu and its esa and eda agencies.
in writing. − food waste has become such a global problem that it is present at all stages of the agri-food chain. it occurs in agriculture, manufacturing, distribution companies, or consumer households. food is wasted in both developed and developing countries. food waste forms a parallel chain with the production chain and leads to a number of negative externalities. the issue of food waste is at odds with the fundamental issue of food security, which is seriously threatened by a range of factors, including limited natural resources in relation to the growing world population and insufficient access to food for the poorest population groups. the fight against food waste must become a priority in the european political agenda. the commission, the council and the member states should endeavour to adopt strategies and concrete measures aimed at reducing food waste throughout the supply chain, while at the same time making efforts to raise awareness of the problem among the general public with a view to seeking a remedy. it is necessary that citizens are informed not only about the causes and consequences of waste but also about the ways to reduce it. in this context, the call for 2013 to be declared the european year against food waste appears to be an important tool to raise awareness and to raise awareness of this important issue.
in writing. − food waste is now so widespread that it must be considered a global problem. we can say that from the producer to the consumer, the entire food chain is present. it is estimated that more than half of all wholesome and edible food is thrown away. the issue of food waste is at odds with the fundamental problem of food supply, as the world's population grows, and with it the limited access to food for the poorest. not to mention the high environmental costs of producing food that is not consumed. the causes of waste, however, are not always the same. while in industrialized countries the focus is on marketing and consumption, primarily because of the abundance of food produced, in developing countries the lack of advanced agricultural techniques and safe storage facilities is the cause. these data clearly show that the amount of food produced today should be reused for food purposes rather than simply thrown away like other waste. the fight against food waste must be a priority on the european political agenda. we need to develop a concrete strategy to halve food waste across the entire food supply chain by 2025. i believe it is extremely important to educate citizens not only about the causes and consequences of waste but also about ways to reduce it. i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. the leaders' meeting was essentially pointless. a fiscal agreement will certainly not bring the eu out of the crisis. by cutting back, you can just as easily fall into recession. and eventually, because of the economic downturn, it will be even harder to pay off the debts and the burden of debt will increase. moreover, the likely future french president has already indicated that he wants to modify the agreement before ratification. however, the need to restart employment growth remained consistently underestimated. while austerity measures are slowly being legislated, the growth and jobs initiative has remained a mere challenge. and sweden has taken the liberty of not signing that one. such manners are extremely unfortunate from a european point of view. the growth initiative is weak. the fiscal agreement is adopted outside the framework of the european treaties and with the exception of the uk and the cr. the ep's role in the negotiations on these issues is minimised. it's got to be done differently. europe must remain united and adhere to democratic principles and existing legal frameworks. europe must stop thinking in simplifying terms of 'there are debt problems, we need to cut'. no, i did not. resources must be sought that can be reasonably invested in economic recovery. unused resources from the eu structural funds, financial transaction tax, eib-supported, european bonds. these are the issues that the summits should address. if they do not, they will be useless and the union will not have much time left.
mr president, iranian refugees from camp ashraf will move to a new camp liberty, which the council of europe parliamentary assembly has compared to a prison camp. the green light was issued by the un mission in iraq. this approval was granted without the consent of camp ashraf residents, despite the promise of the un envoy, ambassador martin kobler, that such approval be obtained. the eu should take a much more active role, with baroness ashton’s direct involvement – especially after the refusal of the iraqi government to let it play an active part in the negotiations. in addition there are approximately 900 camp ashraf residents with links to europe. therefore, we need to stand shoulder to shoulder with our us friends in exerting pressure on iraq and the un for a quick and humane resolution. by the way, people like the refugees of camp ashraf are our best hope for a democratic and nuclear-free iran.
there is no doubt that iran is not fulfilling its international obligations in the field of nuclear activities. if international obligations are to be justified, if they are to have meaning, then their enforceability and enforcement are also necessary. we therefore fully endorse the way in which the european union has approached iran in the area of sanctions. on the other hand, it should be stressed that these sanctions should be directed against the regime's top officials. not to the citizens who live in iran and who already have a rather complicated life. and then there's the second dimension, and that dimension is diplomatic and diplomatic negotiation. i believe that if we try to conduct these diplomatic negotiations in other areas, if we can convince that we are interested in a proper partnership with countries like iran - not with its regime, but with the country as such - then we will be able to be successful in the control of the nuclear regime in iran.
for the efd group. following the december elections to the russian state duma, numerous civil protests took place in moscow and other major cities of the country, pointing to the suspicion of manipulation of the election results. representatives of the opposition forces in particular demanded a recount of the votes allocated to individual political parties, as they were convinced that the declared election results did not correspond to the real expressed will of the citizens. the fact that the state administration is investigating irregularities alleged by the opposition and that the protests of opposition forces are respected by the state power, shows that russia is moving towards a better balance of political forces and that the opposition is able to reach much more citizens today than in the past. no one who is realistic about russia's political situation expects the stronger opposition to jeopardize vladimir putin's success in the march presidential election. but it's clear from the shift in voter preferences that if mr. putin wants to be a good president for all russians, he'll have to take much more into account the views of his constructive opponents.
mr president, russia faces its most competitive elections in some time. even if the winner can easily be predicted, the impact on russian politics is unpredictable. for the eu, the immediate challenge is to help ensure a fair and inclusive electoral process and to be prepared for a range of scenarios. but we should not lose sight of the big picture. regardless of the outcome, russia will be, politically, a different country from a year ago. pressures for political and economic reforms will only grow. russia’s internal evolution will have major implications for our bilateral relations in terms of political dialogue, trade, visa policy, human rights and possibly also the broader security environment in europe. there is a strategic opportunity for a new and more effective eu policy towards russia, but we need to readjust our policy in a flexible and timely manner. i am hopeful that baroness ashton and her team, besides preparing for the presidential elections, also have their eye on this bigger picture.
i think most of us are reminders of the cold war and the breakdown of the bipolar world. i myself come from a country that was for many years under the influence of the soviet union the predecessor of the russian federation. to say today that nothing has been done in the russian federation in terms of political reforms would be very incorrect. the russian federation is different today than it was in the old days. but it would also be wrong to say that the reforms that have taken place so far are sufficient and that we are not interested in following further developments and further progress of political reforms in russia. but we should be very sensitive to the tone we use in such a discussion. mrs ashton mentioned that we had a major debate on the russian federation in the european parliament's plenary just in mid-december. so it is not even two months later that we are again discussing the russian federation in the european parliament. imagine how often the russian duma discusses the situation in the european union. as they often criticize in the russian duma the corruption that is in the member states of the european union. and we've been calling every other month for the russian federation to fight corruption. if there are proven cases, let it be done according to the current regulations and laws that the russian federation has. but i feel that if we want to be those critics, then our criticism should be objective, and if our criticism is objective, then we should also focus on criticizing corruption in our own member states. if we criticize that there is no room for opposition in russia, let's look at romania, is there room for opposition in romania? and it is a member state of the european union. if we're talking about one big party being the hegemon here, let's look at hungary. there is also the hegemony of one big party, and we have also criticised what is happening in a member state of the european union on many occasions. so i would just ask, ladies and gentlemen, that in the case of the russian federation too, our discussion should remain substantive and constructive. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i really appreciate that you listened to my speech in slovak, but maybe since it is a sensitive topic it will be better in polish next time. i said that if we are critical of the situation in the russian federation and if some of our concerns are justified, we should be equally critical of what is happening in the member states of the european union themselves. i didn't compare any member state of the european union directly to what's happening in the russian federation. i was merely calling for some objectivity in comparing criticism of the russian federation with what is happening in the member states of the european union.
for the s&d group. brics were a real hot topic. this shows that this is a challenge for us - not only for parliament, but also for the european commission, for our foreign service. the lively discussion was mainly about whether bric is a real economic or a political-economic grouping, or is it just our acronym for a group of countries that have very strong and dynamically developing economies. there was a very lively discussion about this. i personally think that bric is not an integration grouping, that it should not be approached as a single political entity although it is true that bric can form ad hoc consensus positions, for example at the united nations. but we must not overestimate this position. much more emphasis needs to be put on the creation of bilateral partnerships - strategic partnerships - between the european union and the individual countries, which we call bric for short, because these countries are really historically extremely differentiated. not only historically differentiated, but also in practical geopolitics, in economic development, they are completely different countries. but finally, in this lively debate, we found a compromise that bric should be guarded so that it is not a partner that escapes our attention, and the european union should at the same time develop strategic partnerships with the major economies and political geopolitical entities, whether it is brazil, india, china, etc. i think we have finally reached a good compromise here. both instruments need to be developed. and it's also proof that none of us had our heads in the sand, and if we did, we all pulled them out.
i think that relations between the european union and the bric countries should be developed more deeply and, in particular, coordinated by treaties so that cooperation is covered not only from the economic and financial point of view but also from the point of view of promoting development or protecting the environment. i would like to support those who say that these relations should be built primarily on the basis of bilateral economic agreements, which, indeed, given the diversity of these countries, the expansion in the world, the different production would probably be good to give priority. but the main emphasis, i think, should be on supporting and building economic and social structures in these countries so that they do not abuse, i would say, the rights of workers to protection against health and occupational accidents.
mr president, in order to be successful in using restrictive measures, we need to enhance the consistency, transparency and credibility of their application. coordinated action in the case of iran or syria shows that, if it is to be effective, all member states should ensure they have the same policies and uniform sanctions towards these regimes. restrictive measures, if used cautiously, should play an important role. we need to be careful to use the measures in such a way that they do not harm the general population or the development of civil society, which could help in the processes of change. i think that the assets of representatives of regimes that have been frozen in the eu as a result of the sanctions should be streamed to the development of civil society in those countries. that would certainly be the most helpful thing.
i would like to join all the colleagues who have spoken on the issue of a united approach to regimes that restrict the freedoms of their citizens in a restrictive way. it is good that we have a really consistent, uniform approach in our foreign policy towards all such representatives of regimes, so that these people cannot, for example, hide their assets in banks on european union soil and that their assets in banks in the european union can also be frozen if circumstances so require. they should also not travel to the territory of the european union except to address a humanitarian situation. that would probably be considered an exception. so there must be clear criteria, uniform criteria, that we apply. a certain typical example would be iran, where we already have some very precise rules in place.
i want to support the motion for a resolution and the committee's opinion on the social role of sport. i am in favour of making sport a compulsory subject at all levels of schools, but i am also in favour of all sports facilities serving school sports after school serving the general public. sport at any age has great potential to improve overall health. sport should be the phenomenon that can integrate the socially excluded and eliminate all forms of discrimination. the preference of intergenerational sport can take many forms in terms of public health, social, cultural or economic benefits to society. youth sports, in turn, are a meaningful use of leisure time, eliminating drugs, violence and other negative phenomena. however, as a woman former active athlete , i expect more support for women in sport, ensuring equal access, as well as measures to promote equal opportunities.
sport is one of the few activities that erases the differences between people, because it concerns all citizens of the european union, regardless of gender, ethnic origin, religion, age, nationality or social status. regular sport undeniably contributes to a healthy lifestyle and improves the overall health of eu citizens, which is why more promotion of active sport is needed, not only by healthcare professionals but also by political leaders. for people with mental or physical disabilities, sport is a special category because it helps them to develop a new positive relationship with each other, with the collective, which helps their inclusion in society. as sport also has a social and educational function, as it develops in people a sense of fair play, teamwork in a multicultural environment and a sense of belonging, i will support this report because it has many excellent ideas and initiatives and also a budget line for this common task.
i would like to begin by acknowledging that the treaty on the functioning of the european union has given the commission the opportunity to contribute both organisationally and financially to the development of sport. modern society suffers from a lack of physical activity, which has a negative impact on the health of our citizens, especially in the spread of obesity and its associated health complications. therefore, wider support for sport should also be seen as a health promotion, which will certainly have a positive impact on lower health costs. promoting a healthy active lifestyle with a greater share of sporting activities among our citizens should be one of the european union's major priorities in this area. another important priority should be to promote a european framework for sporting competitions in individual sports in order to bring citizens together on the basis of common interests. i am convinced that the commission's well-organised support for sport will also help to improve the perception of the european union by our citizens.
i cannot help mentioning that slovakia had a commissioner in the previous term whose competence included sport. throughout his term, commissioner figeľ has given sport a prominent role in modern europe and has been deeply committed to the purity of sport. let me quote from one of his speeches: 'sport develops similar values as those needed by european society and is a very powerful component in shaping a democratic society. it has many positive aspects, but it also has many negative aspects. money in sports often decides more than performance. problems like stadium violence, racism, doping -- these are cancers that are killing sports. to deal with these problems, rules need to be established. and let me add that as honorary president of the women's hockey team, i can confirm that equality of opportunity in sports is far from a reality.
in writing. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, but also the committee as a whole, on a very fruitful discussion and, consequently, on a very comprehensive report on a subject which is being dealt with in this way for the first time in the european parliament on its own. i also welcome the fact that the european commission has given sport a place in the new erasmus for all programme for education and youth for the new financial period 2014-2020. i am pleased that my colleagues and i have been given the opportunity to influence the future of european sport as a means of social integration and strengthening european identity, and to promote such important elements as compulsory physical education in schools, equal opportunities in sport for girls and women, and access to appropriate sports facilities for the disabled. it is also important to establish effective rules to ensure that young athletes have proper schooling and professional development in addition to their activities. it is important to see sport as a tool to combat intolerance, racism and violence and to increase the protection of minors in professional sport. i therefore hope that the commission will present an ambitious budget for sport policy taking into account public health, social, cultural and economic benefits and that these proposals will soon be put into practice.
the eu is founded on and respects common values, rights and obligations. it was created with this idea in mind, and it can only function with it. in this respect, hungary is an important partner for us, and has often demonstrated its undeniable membership of the european family. it is therefore important that there be no doubt about this today. we are currently discussing with hungary the technical details of the independence of the national bank and the judiciary, but also the approach to values that are clearly defined in the eu treaties. these include, in particular, respect for the principles of democracy, human rights and freedoms. however strong a popular government may be, it must not underestimate these values. i am convinced that it is in our common interest to continue to have a strong and reliable partner in hungary, one that respects the values that bind us together. i believe hungary has a similar interest.
i am pleased to inform the european parliament that baroness de vos van steenwijk died a few days ago. ms de vos was a dutch national and for several decades was the president of the international atd quart monde movement. at her initiative, an institute for social research was set up to promote the fight against extreme poverty in the nascent european community. subsequently, madame de vos established a permanent relationship with the un. thanks to this initiative, we have a un special rapporteur on extreme poverty and human rights. after the first elections to the european parliament, she initiated the creation of the atd quart monde committee at a time when there were no intergroups. i hope that her political views and activities in the atd quart monde family will stir our consciences and make us aware at all levels of decision-making that extreme poverty in the eu and elsewhere in the world is a violation of human rights. it's a challenge for all of us.
waste management is a very sensitive issue from the public's point of view. it is therefore pointless for the european commission to monitor the compliance of individual countries with the waste management directives. the conclusions of the commission's report from the beginning of last year showed us that several eu countries do not pay due attention to environmental protection and waste management. the dozens of infringement procedures, the information on hundreds of illegal and thousands of non-compliant landfills are a disturbing finding and remind us that the commission is failing to enforce union legislation in this area too. waste treatment, if well organised, can be a profitable business, and recycling helps us to save a lot of money on the environment. as it turns out, we will therefore have to make a much greater effort to put in place better-functioning mechanisms for the loading and efficient treatment of waste.
in writing. many local communities are increasingly concerned about waste management. the growing number of petitions testifies to this. waste management is becoming a major political and social issue. the lack of management of these matters and the failure to prioritise action in this area have negative consequences not only for human health and well-being, but also for the longevity of the planet and the environment. many eu countries are lagging far behind in implementing waste strategies, and in this respect, legacies of the past and over-reliance on landfills, coupled with the need to change the approach to waste disposal, have led to serious breaches of eu legislation. all measures need to be taken to prevent waste generation, to ensure preparation for re-use, recycling, further recovery including recovery for energy production and disposal through safe incineration, with landfills as a last resort.
in writing. we have just heard from the commissioner how much recycling and the recycling of e-waste in particular, has to offer to the economy. a sound waste management policy is therefore essential, as e-waste is one of the fastest growing waste segments in the european union. the slovak republic has already reached the target set in directive 2002/96/ec and since 2010 we have been facing the problem of exceeding the minimum limit of 4 kg of e-waste per person per year. and this condition will have an upward trend. therefore, the transitional period, which slovakia has entered, will cover up the shortcomings that persist between producers and importers, or electronic anonymous sales, and will also slow down the selection of those who do not contribute to the financing of waste collection and subsequent treatment to date. therefore, i see no reason to grant exemptions elsewhere in the eu, in order to avoid certain advantages being abused by the exemptions, which would ultimately slow down the development of the recycling industry.
i would like to thank mrs bastos for preparing this report. when talking about priorities for the next period, it is important to recall the initiatives that are delivering results. in the case of the daphne programme, there is no doubt about that. the daphne programme is unique in that it is able to reach out to victims of violence who are beyond the reach of other institutions. i'm talking about women and children and adolescents who are exposed to violence because of social exclusion. violence, however, is not just physical beatings. these include threats, psychological pressure, harassment, and the distribution of child sexual abuse images. these forms of violence are particularly dangerous to the psychological integrity of the individual. daphne allows funding for projects that speak to the use of internet networks for new forms of violence. more attention should be paid to prevention and also to funding small organisations working on this issue.
over the past decade, there has been limited progress in women's participation in public administration. in some cases, quotas were adopted and the number of women in representative institutions increased. however, despite these efforts, women's participation in peace negotiations, with a few exceptions, is still below 10%. women in the military play an important role as role models, as mediators of intercultural exchange, and as encouraging motivation for local women, breaking down stereotypes of local men and also communicating better with local women. in most countries, unfortunately, gender equality and women's rights activities are not given much importance, as gender issues are seen as a secondary issue and cultural, religious and socio-economic customs are often used as an excuse to impede progress in this area. the gender perspective therefore needs to be emphasised at the very beginning of the planning of civilian and security missions. it is the participation of women in the peacebuilding phase that is of particular importance.
i very much appreciate the activities of mrs regner and i join her in her challenge. a legislative initiative on the relocation of companies is badly needed. freedom of establishment is important, but when a change of company's registered office is carried out without the other activities of the company being moved to the new location at the same time, it is usually an unfair activity. most of the time, this is an attempt to evade either tax obligations or the labor laws of the home country. the creation of so-called 'box companies', with which we also have experience in the member states of the european union, is certainly an undesirable phenomenon that needs to be counteracted. of course, legislation should distinguish and should not prevent honest companies from changing their place of business, if necessary and for a legitimate reason. a good control mechanism, which our group is pushing for, is the involvement of company employees in decisions on crossborder relocation, for example through their effective participation in company boards.
an interesting work by mr. norbert neuser, in which he proposes to set up and build small decentralized projects to promote electricity generation in developing countries. it's a very ambitious and interesting project. however, i do not think that the european union has the capacity to push and enforce this project on a wider scale. but perhaps the european union could be the initiator of such a project at the global level, with the support of industrialized countries and developing economies, which could pool funds so that such a project for aid to developing countries could really be launched on a much larger scale and on a much larger scale, and that something could be done about it.
energy poverty is a serious problem in developing countries. worldwide, nearly 1.3 billion people are regularly deprived of electricity for their daily activities. i think that this problem has not been given enough priority in development. access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for eradicating poverty. but few developing countries have made progress in improving access to energy. households typically spend a large proportion of their income on poor-quality lighting and heating materials. this is because those without access to fuels and electricity do not benefit from aid. we already have a number of technologies to bring clean and efficient energy to poor communities. in addition to fossil fuels, technologies that use local energy sources can also provide a solution. we need to promote the creation of a global financial fund to support investments to reduce poverty. we must do everything we can, both politically and financially, to achieve universal access to energy by 2030.
access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable development. without access to energy, entire communities are forced to live in poverty and in undignified conditions. over the past period, there has been a significant effort to promote private investment in energy access. but apart from countries with transforming economies, very few developing countries can demonstrate progress in increasing energy access for the poor. financial assistance for access to energy for this population has been limited so far and therefore there is a need to increase private sector involvement. as for the future, the european union energy facility is the only fund in the world specifically designed to support investment to tackle energy poverty. however, there are currently no commitments for the european union energy facility for the future. i therefore believe that, in particular by increasing political will and financial commitments, the union can play a decisive key role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030.
i agree with mr schmid that tax evasion is a serious problem for the european union and that the coordination of tax policies needs to be addressed. i am not sure that we can proceed to tax harmonization at this stage. i think that the powers of the states are quite strong and there is not even an interest in many countries to go through such a procedure. but i think we could start working on a common accounting framework. i think it is necessary to create common multilingual accounting forms that would be accepted and assessed in several languages by several tax authorities in different countries. then, on the basis of the unification of accounting procedures and accounting forms, we could start talking about how we define a common tax base, which might be appropriate to define. i think that the danish authorities will still have a long time to come to exercise their powers, and i would say that this will also be in the interests of the individual countries, and i think that this will also have to be respected.
the current economic and financial crisis has led to a significant increase in public debt in europe and in this context automatic welfare state stabilisers are becoming much more important than they have been until now. effective taxation is essential for public authorities to fulfil their tasks and obligations, but also the expectations of citizens. to ensure fiscal credibility, sound fiscal consolidation is needed, together with a fairer and more targeted distribution of the tax burden. debt reduction requires both spending cuts and tax increases, especially for high-income groups. growth-oriented tax reforms must be a priority. only then will the foundations for long-term growth be laid. it is therefore necessary to seek to apply procedures which help to prevent tax evasion and tax abuse. last but not least, there is also a need to increase transparency.
the european union's humanitarian aid programmes to help victims of various disasters or protracted conflicts are an integral part of the european union's policy. the directorate-general for humanitarian aid and civil protection, which is responsible for carrying out this activity on behalf of the european union, cooperates with more than two hundred partner organisations of different structures. it therefore provides considerable funding to partner organisations to help victims of various disasters, on the basis of framework agreements. the control mechanisms for the meaningfulness and efficient use of the funds allocated to these organisations must therefore be an important aspect of the work of our administration. the european commission's proposal to improve the processes for monitoring the effective use of european taxpayers' funds for humanitarian aid should therefore be seen as an effort to address the shortcomings of the current control model in order to achieve a more efficient use of these union funds in the future.
madam president, by voting in favour i wanted to express my support for the need to reformulate eu foreign policy towards brics. they should definitely have stronger relevance in our foreign policy. there is a space for closer cooperation between the eu and the brics countries. this is especially relevant at a time when brics countries are showing their clear ambitions in foreign policy terms. from this point of view it will be important to bring the emerging economic powers to take a different role in international development policy. in my opinion this role should better reflect their share in the global gdp. changes in the world economic landscape and in the new role played by countries like china, india and brazil give the opportunity for strengthening global development policies. the rising economic strength of these countries means taking up more responsibilities in opening up their markets to the least developed countries, for example through preferential schemes but also on a non-discriminatory basis towards the rest of the wto membership.
in writing. − the growing political and economic importance of brazil, russia, india, china and south africa (the brics group) is increasing the foreign policy importance of these countries. in terms of the global economy, the economies of the seven fast-developing countries (brazil, russia, india, china, indonesia, mexico and turkey) are also expected to be larger than the economies of the g7 (usa, japan, canada, uk, germany, france and italy) combined by 2050. in terms of gross domestic product, china is projected to become the world's largest economy before 2020 and india could become the world's fastest growing economy before 2050. i believe that it is appropriate to try to go beyond mutual trust, recognition and cooperation and to make efforts to create a common platform for foreign policy issues, based on the premise that a new system of global governance will be established that is sufficiently accessible to the brics and other emerging powers and based on common values. the current trade agreements between the eu and the brics countries are not only mutually beneficial from an economic point of view, but also politically beneficial for both parties. it is important to build relations with the brics on bilateral dialogues aimed at promoting further democratisation and strengthening relations with the eu.
in writing. − sanctions or restrictive measures are perceived as coercive measures without the use of force, such as arms embargoes, trade sanctions, economic and financial sanctions, asset freezes, flight bans, entry restrictions, diplomatic sanctions, boycotts of sporting and cultural events and the suspension of cooperation with a third country. however, the application of sanctions and restrictive measures is only effective if it is part of a coherent comprehensive human rights strategy of the eu and the member states. however, the union often applies its sanctions policy unevenly and treats third countries with similar human rights and democracy deficiencies differently, and such behaviour has prompted criticism of the use of the so-called double standard. i therefore believe that it is necessary to establish clear criteria as to when restrictive measures are to be applied, to set out the objectives to be achieved by those restrictive measures, to determine the form of the sanctions to be applied, the guidelines for their periodic evaluation and the review procedure to be followed in consultation with the european parliament. it is desirable to draw up the criteria in a way that enhances the consistency and credibility of eu sanctions, while allowing the union sufficient flexibility at the operational level and thus the effective use of this instrument in its external activities.
in writing. − if you have articles 49 and 54 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union guarantee the right of establishment for all companies. cross-border corporate migration is one of the key elements in completing the internal market. however, it is necessary to take into account the heterogeneity of legislation regarding the relocation and the rules for the relocation of the registered or actual seat of an existing company under national law from one member state to another within the single market, and the associated employment risk, as well as the administrative difficulties, costs incurred, social consequences and lack of legal certainty. business mobility still faces a high administrative burden as well as social and tax costs. the transfer of the registered office should preserve the continuity of the legal personality of the company concerned in order to guarantee its proper functioning. the relocation should not affect the rights of the parties involved and the relocation process should be governed by strict rules on transparency and on informing the parties involved before the relocation takes place. i also believe that it is important to ensure the uniformity of employee participation procedures in the different legislative provisions that are part of the company law directives when a company's registered office is relocated.
in writing. − the number, frequency, scale and severity of humanitarian disasters are increasing dramatically and affecting more and more parts of the world. the union is the largest provider of humanitarian aid in the world. the total eu contribution to humanitarian aid in 2010, including that of the member states, was eur 2 957 million, with the eu member states accounting for 64% and the commission for 36%. echo is the european commission's directorate-general (dg) responsible for the delivery of eu humanitarian aid. the mandate of dg echo covers humanitarian aid and civil protection, the two main instruments through which the eu ensures the delivery of humanitarian aid to victims of disasters and protracted conflicts. it carries out its mandate by providing funding to some 200 partner organisations: ngos, un agencies, international organisations and specialised agencies of the member states. i believe it is important that the eu can strengthen its capacity to respond to the increase in the number of major natural disasters. for several years, parliament has advocated a more realistic humanitarian aid budget to avoid a persistent under-funding of the relevant budget lines and to ensure financial leeway throughout the financial year, as well as to maintain a consistent balance between financing measures to prevent humanitarian disasters and measures to ensure rapid response to emergencies, whether natural or man-made.
in writing. − in the european area of justice, citizens must be able not only to enjoy their rights, but also to enforce them effectively. eu legislation is intended to enable parties in crossborder situations to either enforce their rights effectively or to reach out-of-court settlement of disputes through mediation. the benefits of adr cannot be denied, but equal access to justice should be preserved for all eu citizens. consumers harmed by infringements often face significant barriers to access, effectiveness and affordability in seeking redress, sometimes due to the high costs of litigation, the potential psychological consequences, complex and time-consuming procedures and a lack of information on available means of redress. in some member states, the overall effectiveness of existing consumer redress and enforcement tools developed at eu level is not considered to be satisfactory or these mechanisms are not sufficiently known, which means that they are used to a limited extent. i believe that it is necessary to take account of the legal traditions and legal systems of the various member states and to increase the coordination of good practices between member states. it is necessary to introduce safeguards under the horizontal instrument to prevent unfounded claims and the abuse of collective redress in order to ensure the fairness of judicial proceedings.
in writing. − as with any new legislation at eu level, the interests of the eu citizen, who is in this case primarily the injured party, must be given priority when considering the possibility of collective redress. the justification of a form of redress not fully known to the continental legal culture should be duly substantiated by the commission and other legislators before a proposal is made on the subject. in addition to the uncertainty surrounding the real impact of the new procedural rules, which put the interests of the individual first, it is nevertheless possible to mention the positive aspects that can be achieved by a common procedural rules for a collective remedy. abuses are often committed by companies with large capital and infrastructure, against which individual enforcement may seem hopeless. sometimes the consumer, the customer, is not able to bear all the burdens that are necessary to enforce his rights under the law, and so he does not use them. in such cases, joint action by the injured parties may be justified, in accordance with the rules of the collective redress form and only on the basis of an individual decision on participation. i believe that a future legal instrument in the field of collective redress should also focus on the objective of enabling eu citizens and businesses to enjoy the rights guaranteed to them by the community. this report reflects those views.
in writing. − if you have taking into account the principles governing the selection of authorised nutrition labels for food, the commission proposed a new nutrition label now containing x% less [nutrients] to be included in the annex to regulation (ec) no 1924/2006. such a designation is contrary to the purpose and content of the basic act because it is confusing, ambiguous and misleading to the ordinary consumer. the newly introduced designation 'now contains x % less [nutrients]' infringes the principle of comparative assertions as laid down in article 9 (2) of council regulation (ec) no 1924/2006. it allows the nutritional values to be compared with the previous version of this product, regardless of the fact that the starting level of nutrients could be disproportionately high compared to other products on the market. products which have not been modified but which nevertheless have a lower proportion of certain nutrients than the modified product of another brand will not be eligible for a nutrition declaration. this procedure is bound to mislead the consumer. i consider that the commission's proposal for a regulation is not in line with the purpose and content of the basic instrument and therefore i consider it necessary for the commission to submit an amended proposal.
in writing. - the meeting of european leaders on monday was not only informal, but in essence i would say unnecessary. the so-called fiscal agreement that has been negotiated will certainly not bring the european union out of the crisis. saving and cutting can just as easily lead to a recession. and ultimately, because of this economic downturn, it's going to be even harder to pay off the debt and the debt burden will increase. although the meeting finally began to talk about the need to restart growth and employment, it was still insufficient and weak. while austerity measures are almost becoming law, the growth and jobs initiative has remained a mere challenge. such manners are extremely unfortunate from a european point of view. the growth initiative is weak. the role of the european parliament in the negotiation and decision-making on these key issues will be minimised. but europe must remain united and adhere to democratic principles and existing legal frameworks. it is essential to seek resources that can be invested sensibly in economic recovery. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the conclusion of the agreement on the european economic area. these are the issues that the summits should address. if they do not, they will be useless and the union will not have much time left.
in writing. − it is fairly clear that iran is not fulfilling its international obligations in relation to its nuclear activities. and if international commitments are not to be scraps of paper, they must be enforceable and enforced. from this point of view, it is understandable and right that the european union has taken the sanctions. at the same time, however, we must ensure that the sanctions are effective and that they are imposed on the regime's leaders who can make a difference, not on ordinary iranians who cannot. however, in addition to sanctions, the second dimension of diplomatic relations with iran, namely negotiations, should be given the utmost importance. vice-president ashton, but also the ministers of the member states and the council should start a dialogue with iran. this is not only the contentious and sensitive issue of iran's nuclear programme, but also other issues such as regional stability, neighbourhood relations and human rights. if consensus can be reached in one area, if partnership can be built, then there is a greater chance of agreement in other areas, including the nuclear programme. that is why i believe that the diplomatic activity of european officials towards iran should be comprehensive, including the effort to put the emphasis on diplomacy in the original sense of the word, that is, on negotiations.
in writing. − the deliberate and systematic concealment of nuclear activities, the refusal to cooperate with the international atomic energy agency, lead to justified serious concerns that iran is indeed pursuing the development of nuclear weapons. the repeated disregard for the resolutions of the international atomic energy agency, the un security council and the european parliament is, in my view, sufficient grounds for the adoption of additional sanctions against iran. the fact that iran will one day return to the right path of its own free will, i consider unrealistic. since iran is not cooperating and therefore it is not possible to obtain evidence that it is not in breach of its obligations under the npt, action is needed to protect the peaceful coexistence of nations. in this regard, member states should act consistently with this objective and carefully check that trade does not lead to the export of technologies that could be used to develop nuclear equipment for war purposes. for the reasons given, i support the adoption of the translated european parliament resolution.
in writing. − article 165 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu) gives the eu new competence in the field of sport, requires it to contribute to the promotion of sport and provides for the focus of eu action on the development of the european dimension in sport. the current challenges of effective governance in sport include the free movement of citizens and the nationality of athletes, the transfer of players, the purity of sporting competitions and european social dialogue in sport. the communication 'developing the european dimension in sport', adopted by the commission on 18 january 2011, states that eu action contributes to the overall objectives of the europe 2020 strategy by improving employability and mobility, in particular through measures promoting social inclusion in sport and through sport, education and training and the european guidelines on physical activity. the commission currently provides support to projects and networks in the field of sport either through incentive measures specifically targeted at sport, in particular preparatory actions in the field of sport, or through existing programmes in individual relevant areas, such as lifelong learning, public health, youth, citizenship, research and technological development, social inclusion, combating racism or environmental protection. i believe that sport, in view of its educational and cultural value, can make a significant contribution to the achievement of the union's strategic objectives.
in writing. − most european citizens expect public authorities to provide effective and efficient public services in the areas of health, education, transport and safety. but the area that is causing the growing number of petitions is the apparent failure of public authorities in many countries to deal satisfactorily with the problem of waste management. the european union has adopted a number of laws applicable in all member states to ensure that there is a legal framework dealing with the inevitable consequences of our modern lifestyles in terms of waste from households, workplaces, hospitals, industry and so on. insufficient management and the failure to prioritise action in this area have not only negative consequences for human health and well-being, but also have a negative impact on the environment in the broadest sense. analysis of waste management policies in the eu member states provides very different information. several member states are very advanced and have not received any petitions from citizens raising waste management issues. however, many other eu countries are lagging far behind in implementing waste strategies. i am of the opinion that in order to improve the efficient management of waste, it is necessary to help improve the implementation of the policy in this area in the future.
in writing. the daphne programme was created in 1997 and has established itself as the only european programme to combat violence against women, children and adolescents. since its inception, the program has highlighted many new forms of violence. in many resolutions, the european parliament has pointed out that funding for the daphne programme has been insufficient so far and has indicated its intention to ensure that adequate funding is provided for the programme in order to address the real problems. in 2000, the daphne initiative was transformed into a multiannual programme for the period 2000-2003 with a financial envelope of eur 20 million and this programme attracted great interest not only in the european union but also in international institutions that sought to combat the commercial sexual exploitation of children. the daphne ii and daphne iii programmes started in 2004 and 2007 with an average annual budget of eur 10 million for daphne ii and eur 16,7 million for daphne iii, which was integrated into the framework of the general programme fundamental rights and justice. i believe that the objectives of the programme, i.e. to prevent and combat all forms of violence against women, children and young people and to develop a coordinated, coherent and effective eu policy, remain relevant to the current needs of the target groups.
in writing. − the use of online social networks and their anonymity contributes to the spread of violence against women, children and adolescents. the daphne programme makes a significant contribution to improving the protection of children who are particularly vulnerable and who may suffer not only consequences affecting their physical integrity, but also, and above all, long-term and serious psychological consequences. however, my interest in the rigorous protection of children, whether after birth or before birth, does not allow me to agree with the incorrect and misleading labelling of so-called sexual and reproductive rights as human rights, since abortion falls into this category. i emphasize that the right to life is explicitly recognized as a basic human right, and that is why there is no such thing as a basic human right to abortion, as many documents try to subtly suggest to the more unwary reader. the incorrect and imprecise wording of such a serious subject therefore does not allow me to do anything but to demand with force the appropriate correction and the correct explanation.
in writing. i voted against recital k which mentions in particular the existence of a 'human right to abortion' as part of sexual and reproductive health. but there is no such right. the resolution highlights the fact that the daphne programme is being used for social engineering purposes: even the european institutions no longer distinguish between 'sex' and 'gender'. while 'gender' is generally accepted as the social expression of sex, discrimination on the basis of 'gender' cannot be proved. this makes it impossible to combat violence against women. i'm sorry about that.
in writing. − over the past decade, only limited progress has been made in reflecting women's participation in public administration. in some cases, quotas have been adopted and the number of women in representative institutions has increased, but despite the efforts made, women's participation in peace negotiations still represents, with a few exceptions, less than 10% of formal participation. women in the military play an important role as role models, as mediators of intercultural exchange, as encouraging motivation for local women, as breaking down stereotypes of local men and as better communicating with local women. in most countries, unfortunately, gender equality and women's rights activities are not given much importance, as gender is seen as a secondary issue and cultural, religious and socio-economic customs are used as an excuse to hold back progress in this area. however, the gender perspective needs to be emphasised at the very beginning of the planning of civilian and security missions, as it can be assumed that the specific capacities of women in terms of dialogue and non-violence could make a very positive contribution to the peaceful prevention and resolution of conflicts. i believe it would be appropriate to appoint a permanent rapporteur for gender equality and women's rights in the area of eu external relations in parliament, who would also be responsible for the area of gender identity and non-discrimination.
in writing. − women are often powerless in armed conflict to face physical and psychological violence. the european union has repeatedly stressed that it stands with these women, and i have no doubt that it will continue to do so. but we, in the name of liberal ideology, can discredit even the best intentions. if our effort in accepting this report is to help women in war conflicts, i would like to ask: how will promoting abortion help them? because, alongside many good suggestions, the report also calls for the promotion of specific measures such as 'programmes providing health courses and readily available literature for both women and men, especially on reproductive and sexual health, and awareness-raising campaigns adapted to the culture of the people to whom they are addressed'. calling the killing of unborn children reproductive health protection does not change the substance of the matter. and the essence of that is that by trying to export at any cost a liberal culture of death, we discredit ourselves in the eyes of those we want to help. our aid thus becomes ineffective and ultimately useless.
in writing. − access to modern energy services is a prerequisite for poverty reduction and sustainable human development. without access to energy, entire communities are forced to live in poverty. to begin addressing this problem, in september 2010 the un secretary-general ban ki-moon set a target of universal access to energy by 2030. he stressed the importance of access to energy in reducing poverty and the role of energy services in achieving the millennium development goals. over the next two decades, significant global investments in the energy sector are planned to amount to usd 26 trillion, and only 3% of this amount would provide universal access to energy by 2030. over the past period, considerable efforts have been made to promote private investment in energy access, but, apart from countries with economies in transition, very few developing countries can demonstrate progress in increasing energy access for the poor. financial assistance for access to energy for the poor has been limited so far and therefore there is a need to increase private sector involvement. i also believe that by demonstrating and increasing political will and financial commitments, the eu can play a key role in achieving universal access to energy by 2030.
in writing. − the eu's internal market for the mobility of people, services, goods and capital is not fully functional and there are still areas for improvement. eu citizens working abroad and eu businesses operating abroad face tax obstacles that lead to significant barriers to growth and employment in the eu internal market and therefore need to be removed. this is how a more competitive europe can be secured, one that creates growth and jobs. however, the current economic and financial crisis has led to a significant increase in public debt in europe and in this context automatic welfare state stabilisers are becoming much more important than before. effective taxation is essential for public authorities to fulfil their tasks and obligations as well as the expectations of citizens. to ensure fiscal credibility, sound fiscal consolidation is needed alongside a fairer and more targeted distribution of the tax burden, and debt reduction requires both spending cuts and tax increases, with growth-oriented tax reforms as a priority. the issue of tackling discriminatory tax rules that are contrary to the fundamental freedoms guaranteed by the eu treaties is also of key importance. i believe that it is essential to prevent tax evasion and tax abuse and to increase tax transparency.
in writing. − the economic crisis that erupted in autumn 2008 is still not overcome, and in recent months fears of a financial crisis and recession have been revived. from 1 october 2008 to 1 october 2010, the commission adopted more than 200 state aid decisions for the financial sector, with a nominal amount of eur 1 107 billion spent by member states in 2009 and a maximum amount of eur 4 588.90 billion of measures approved by the commission from the beginning of the crisis to 1 october 2010. the significant amount of state aid provided during the crisis, for example in the form of guarantee schemes, recapitalisation schemes and additional forms of liquidity support to finance banks, has contributed to significant imbalances in public finances, while the long-term consequences of this state aid, in particular the guarantees provided to banks, are still unknown. protectionism and non-enforcement of competition rules could further deepen and prolong the crisis. and competition policy is the key instrument that gives the eu the opportunity to build a dynamic, efficient and innovative internal market and to succeed in competing on the global stage. i believe that it is important to promote competition in all sectors and that efforts to bring competition rules closer together worldwide and the work of the international competition network are equally important.
in writing. − the commission's 2010 competition report is essentially about overcoming the processes and consequences of the recent economic crisis. since the beginning of the community, competition policy has been the essential basis for economic cooperation. today, market movements distorted by the crisis must also be addressed by proper regulation. the commission has tried to respond effectively to the economic crisis by adopting state aid rules within the framework of competition policy. i agree with the rapporteurs that a global approach to competition rules is also needed. the report covers a number of sectors, including the call for the swift implementation of the internal energy market package to achieve an open and competitive single energy market. the introduction of effective cost analysis at all stages of the food supply chain is equally important to protect consumers' interests. the commission's guidelines on the rescue and restructuring of the banking sector are also inevitable and their consideration and application will have to be monitored. i agree with the stricter conditionality of future temporary state aid to the banking sector and with more ethical retail lending. the market distortions caused by the crisis can only be remedied by a common union decision. i voted in favour of the report of the economic and monetary committee, as i believe that competition policy is a key factor in developing the eu into a dynamic, well-functioning and innovative internal market and in strengthening competitiveness on the world market.
in writing. − the financial and economic crisis that erupted in autumn 2008 continues and member states are at risk of a long-term recession. i agree that protectionism and non-enforcement of competition rules will in no way contribute to solving the crisis. on the contrary, a well-designed competition policy should help to build a dynamic and innovative internal market that can compete successfully in the world. cartels remain the most serious threat to competition, consumer welfare and the proper functioning of markets, even in times of crisis, and the imposition of fines as an enforcement tool is therefore justified. however, i believe that the commission should examine individual cases with particular care and ensure that the amount of the fines does not irreparably jeopardise the economic viability of the undertaking concerned, leading to its bankruptcy, liquidation and consequently also a high level of job losses. the crisis requires that responses to the challenges posed take account of the complex economic and social context and do not penalise even more eu citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. mr president! officer, please. the proposal in question would entrust the office for harmonization in the internal market with the operation of a european observatory on counterfeiting and copyright piracy. i think it's a very practical approach, and that's why it's viable. the office shall have the infrastructure and expertise to effectively implement the new tasks entrusted to the observatory. the observatory's name was changed to the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights in the report. the new name reflects the comprehensive and coordinating scope of the centre's tasks. it is well known that counterfeiting causes significant damage not only to the internal market, to national economies but also directly to eu citizens. it is therefore appropriate to develop enforcement strategies jointly and to share best practices on a regular basis between member states. this is going to be the observation platform from now on. the committee report is a balanced document. my colleagues and i have tried to ensure that the text of the regulation takes account of all aspects of the effective functioning of the observatory. it is no accident that the text mentions the special situation of smes or the representation of the cultural and creative industries. we also considered it important to have effective liaison between national authorities, the private sector and the eu institutions. to make the negative effects of counterfeiting visible to citizens, the observatory needs to provide its partners across europe with sufficient information. the same applies to the member states towards the centre. respect for rights and enforcement can be made easier by making the social and economic damage caused by violations of rights known. we can reasonably expect a well-structured and properly-regulated observatory to do its job effectively.
the protection of intellectual property has recently been highly politicized and placed at the centre of public attention, in particular thanks to the controversial acta agreement. i would like to take this opportunity to ask whether the current patent protection is the most effective and fair. i want to mention in particular patent law, which allows pharmaceutical companies to sell drugs against deadly diseases at high prices. moreover, they can prevent the production and sale of much cheaper generics under the threat of sanctions. so technically, it's not a problem to prevent people from dying, but legally, it's not possible because the pharmaceutical corporations don't want to give up their profits from sales and they're preventing the realization of what's technically possible. the existence of a patent in its present form thus leads directly to the fact that many people die and suffer quite needlessly.
for the efd group. there is no doubt that the successful continuation of the creation of the european union's common economic area will require a continuous improvement in public awareness of the business structures operating under the legislative rules of each country. registers of natural and legal persons carrying out business activities are drawn up in each country according to national rules and therefore naturally differ in structure as well as in the reliability of the data recorded. the commission's efforts to link existing national registers technically will make it possible to speed up and streamline the exchange of information between registers and will also make it easier for citizens and businesses to access the business database of other member states of the union. such a coordinated, informed platform can certainly be a good first step towards making the rich business structure of the european union visible. i am aware of the technical complexity of such a project, but i am convinced that it can make a significant contribution to awareness and to strengthening legal certainty in the european business environment. the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. mr rübig, i am convinced that we are able to apply european legislation in our country as quickly as in other countries of the european union. the trade registers in the slovak republic are well registered and are well processed and both the trade and the professional register are accessible on the internet. it is updated virtually every week on a regular basis, so i am confident that the slovak republic will not have any problems in this area.
taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the internal market, european companies are increasingly moving abroad, beyond national borders. the demand for access to company information in a cross-border context is therefore increasing. however, official information on companies from other member states is not always readily available and current voluntary cooperation between registers does not appear to be sufficient. that is why the interconnection of central, commercial and companies registers could, and in particular should, contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of european enterprises by reducing the administrative burden and increasing legal certainty. the use of innovation in information and communication technologies should also improve cross-border communication between registers. however, i believe that the shift in cross-border access to business information can only happen if all member states are involved in building the electronic network of registers and if business information users are sent information in a standardised form throughout the european union.
the creation of an integrated market for electronic payments in euro, without substantial differences between national and cross-border payments, is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market. although this initiative by the commission could have come earlier, we are glad to have it here. the objective of the single euro payments area project is to develop common payment instruments within the european union, which would replace the current national payment instruments. it is sepa that should provide citizens and businesses of the european union with secure, easy-to-use and reliable euro payment services at competitive prices. it is also expected to create room for creating favourable conditions for increased competition in payment services and for the unrestricted development and rapid implementation of payment-related innovation. consequently, savings should increase, mainly due to increased operational efficiency. at the same time, there will be pressure to reduce prices across the board, which should have a significant impact, especially in member states where payments are relatively expensive compared to other countries. the success of sepa is very important from an economic, monetary, but also, of course, from a political point of view. it is fully in line with the europe 2020 strategy aiming at a smarter economy. for this reason, it also appears justified and important to achieve a smooth and rapid transition to sepa. the single payment area is a good example of a common approach within the eu and also benefits our citizens.
the functioning of the european union's internal market without the dismantling of borders in the banking sector would certainly be problematic. therefore, the effort to create a single european transaction execution system by moving from national to international standards is an understandable change that will make it easier for our citizens and businesses to make cross-border payments within the european union. the fact that from 2014 euro area citizens and from november 2016 citizens of other european union countries will be able to execute cross-border payment orders and direct debits in the european union under the same conditions as at national level is, i think, a natural manifestation of integration and the building of a common market, which our citizens and business entities will certainly welcome. i therefore hope that the application of the proposed amendments creating the single european union payments area will no longer encounter administrative or economic obstacles in the banking sector which would further complicate its implementation.
the overreaction of some parts of the public to the acta proposal has shown that there is a need to put things in order in the area of intellectual property rights. collective management of copyright is also part of the problem. it is important for the functioning of the single market that it is based on the same principles throughout europe. however, i expect in particular that the directive will put an end to the practices of some national organisations representing the interests of authors. it should be borne in mind that not all authors want to be represented by such organisations. it is necessary to establish, on the basis of an analysis of best practices, the way in which fees for the use of original works are to be reallocated, but above all the legislation being prepared must be based on today's reality. in a world where it takes only minutes to create a copy of a copyrighted work and share it, the whole concept of copyright needs to be re-examined and collective management addressed.
the proposal by commission president barroso that member states redirect funds still to be allocated from the eu structural funds to help small and medium-sized enterprises and to combat youth unemployment has caused some embarrassment in many member states, even uncertainty about the need to redirect funds from the funds to other programmes. it is true that the current drawdown of the european funds represents on average about one third of the european funds allocated to the 2007-2013 programming period. however, policy implementation has picked up speed over the last year and at least two thirds of the resources allocated, and in some cases the total amount of available resources, are already legally contracted, meaning that the funds guarantee a steady flow of funds to support investment in these difficult times and member states have a natural interest in seeing these funds actually used.
we need to give young people jobs, then we can start politics. i would therefore like to commend the european commission for its prompt response to the current labour market situation, with a sharp rise in youth unemployment in several countries of the union. the proposal to support smes and projects stimulating youth employment with additional financial resources is the right step to stop and reverse the alarming situation where youth unemployment has exceeded 30% in some countries and is even approaching 50% in two countries. if young people do not develop work habits after they have completed their education, they are very likely to give up looking for work in the future and join the community of people living on welfare. many people are not interested in who will be in charge of pensions, but the structural funds are. i therefore welcome the european commission's initiative to tackle this serious social problem by increasing support for smes and, in conjunction with support for youth employment projects, by making flexible use of the financial resources available.
in writing. the president of the commission's statement that we have 82 billion unused resources at our disposal to support european youth employment is slowly melting away when we hear that this is money that is already 70% contracted. either paid or pending. it is therefore time to see youth employment on two levels. first, to find other operational resources to support employment and smes simultaneously. and secondly, stable and fair working conditions so that states, like slovakia, cannot arbitrarily amend their labour laws, which support up to 550 hours of overtime. it is necessary to introduce education regulation, which would consist in supporting teaching and study disciplines with scholarships or loans so that the structure of education supports the development of the real economy and the labour market.
i supported mr hidalgo's report and congratulate him on the text. the commission proposal is closely linked to the acta anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. but it is not just about fighting counterfeiting and piracy on the internet. it leads to a better understanding of the overall scope and impact of intellectual property rights infringements. i find it useful. raising citizens' awareness of the value of authorship is essential for a wider understanding of the need to protect intellectual property rights. in doing so, we will contribute to supporting and sustaining economic growth. the office for harmonisation in the internal market should also monitor the development of new competitive business models. it would thus promote not only the exchange of information between the institutions of the member states but also the information of citizens.
in writing. − the european union's economic prosperity also rests on sustainable creativity and innovation. it is therefore important to make efforts in relation to measures to protect them effectively. intellectual property rights are important business assets that help to ensure that innovators and creators are fairly remunerated for their work and that their investments in research and new ideas are protected. however, despite all efforts, the number of violations of these rights is constantly increasing, posing a threat not only to the union's economy but also to the health and safety of its population. efficient, immediate and coordinated action at european and global level is therefore needed to prevent this phenomenon. one of the main initiatives of the council and the commission back in 2009 was the establishment of a european counterfeiting and piracy centre to respond to the threat. however, i believe it is equally important that the member states also make efforts to increase cooperation between the office and the national intellectual property offices. for the full range of these rights, data and exchange of best practices are needed to obtain a global picture of the situation and to enable the establishment of comprehensive strategies to limit infringements of intellectual property rights. the mandate of the office should be extended to cover the protection of patents, copyright and related rights, as well as geographical indications.
in writing. − the situation in the member states today shows that the priority of governments at national and european level must be to ensure economic growth and the related maintenance of employment. research and innovation have become an area where european countries gain a competitive advantage. inventions and patents are the result of time-consuming and costly research and development and therefore deserve to be properly rewarded and protected in order to truly return on investment and to encourage similar investments in the future. the field of intellectual property is one of the fastest-growing areas, with countless european experts finding their way into it. not only are new jobs created, but europe has become a leading innovation place thanks to new inventions. if we are to maintain this position in the fierce global competition, we must create and protect an environment in which authors, inventors and manufacturers are not afraid to share their creations and knowledge for public use, but produce better products.
in writing. − taking advantage of the opportunities offered by the internal market, businesses are increasingly moving beyond national borders. there is an increasing demand for access to company information in a cross-border context. however, official information on companies from other member states is not always readily available and current voluntary cooperation between registers does not appear to be sufficient. it is therefore the interconnection of central, commercial and companies registers that could and should contribute to strengthening the competitiveness of european enterprises by reducing the administrative burden and increasing legal certainty. at the same time, this would support the overcoming of the crisis, which is one of the priorities of the europe 2020 strategy. cross-border communication between registers should also be improved by taking advantage of innovations in information and communication technologies. however, i am convinced that the shift in cross-border access to business information can only take place if all member states are involved in building the electronic network of registers, which should ensure both expertise and accuracy. i also believe that information should be sent to business users in a standardised format throughout the union.
in writing. − the proposed directive is, in my view, clearly a step in the right direction in the interests of building the internal market in the european union. insufficient interconnection of registers and difficulties in obtaining true information on companies have often caused barriers to cross-border trade. improving the interconnection of registers, involving all member states through standardised sharing of basic information, will, on the contrary, lead to increased legal certainty, trade and, ultimately, economic growth. i am convinced that the interconnection of registers will also contribute to the protection of third parties, to increasing the share of smes in cross-border trade. i therefore see the interconnection of registers as another tool to consolidate the internal market and increase its competitiveness.
in writing. − trade registers are currently maintained exclusively at national and regional level, which creates differences in particular in the reliability and scope of the data recorded, but also in relation to their legal record. the directive aims at a purely technical interconnection of existing national registers and not at harmonisation of their legal implications. such linking is an important measure to promote further integration of the eu economic area and to strengthen legal certainty for citizens and businesses. another positive contribution of this directive will be the opportunity to make use of all available options for keeping electronic registers, resulting in savings of money and time. it should be noted that a number of questions relating in particular to technical details cannot be answered definitively. the networking phase will be necessary to find solutions to the problems that arise. we should leave the decision to the member states, but they must not forget the benefits and savings that such links will bring to them.
in writing. − if you have the negotiations between the european commission and the republic of guinea-bissau have resulted in a new protocol which applies for a period of one year from 16 june 2011, as the previous protocol expired on 15 june 2011. guinea-bissau is a tropical west african state with limited natural resources and an estimated population of 1.6 million. it is one of the least developed and poorest countries in the world. its economy is predominantly agricultural, with a strong dependence on the export of the single crop of cashew nuts. the country is highly dependent on donor support, with the eu being the main donor, providing about one-third of international donor assistance in 2008. potentially advantageous trade in fishery products with the eu is hampered by non-compliance with eu hygiene standards. guinea-bissau has a large number of fish stocks, both coastal and oceanic species. the catch from the small-scale fisheries sector was last estimated at between 30 and 50 000 tonnes per year. the fisheries partnership agreement ensures that eu fleet components have access to fishing opportunities from areas highly dependent on fisheries, promotes their regional presence in west africa, contributes to job creation and additionally supplies the eu market. it is in the interest of both parties to conclude a new protocol and i therefore believe that parliament should give its consent to its conclusion.
in writing. − at the association council on 13 october 2008, the european union and the kingdom of morocco adopted a document entitled 'eu-morocco joint document on the strengthening of bilateral relations/enhanced status'. this document confirms the objectives of the enhanced status granted by the eu in response to the expectations expressed by morocco to strengthen its partnership with the eu. the kingdom of morocco has been undergoing a process of comprehensive political, economic and social reform for several years, while the union has never ceased to support the efforts of morocco to implement its reform programme. the enhanced status is part of the common will to support an internal reform process linked to a structured and open dialogue, with human rights as an essential element. the european neighbourhood policy guidelines and the neighbourhood action plan, jointly adopted in july 2005, opened a new stage in bilateral relations by enabling morocco to gradually integrate into the eu's internal market. the enhanced status confirms this strategic choice, opens up the possibility to participate in the activities of the union agencies and in its programmes and also provides financial support. the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the eu and morocco marks a decisive milestone in bilateral relations and is also in line with the objectives of the eu's new neighbourhood policy.
in writing. − the eu-morocco joint document on the strengthening of bilateral relations confirms the objectives of the enhanced status granted by the european union in response to morocco's expectations of a strengthened partnership with the eu. these objectives shall focus on better reflecting the strategic priorities of both parties and on the progressive integration of morocco into the internal market. enhanced status shall open the possibility for morocco to participate in the activities of community agencies and community programmes and shall provide it with appropriate financial support. in this context, the eu should ensure in particular that the policies being developed in morocco benefit all regions of the country and in particular the western sahara region, which needs stability and solutions. the kingdom of morocco has become a political and economic partner for us and this protocol represents a significant act of support and encouragement by the eu in relation to the efforts towards sustainable democracy in the region. that is why i believe and hope that morocco will not betray our trust.
in writing. − council directive 2000/75/ec of 20 november 2000 laying down specific provisions for the control and eradication of bluetongue lays down control rules and at the same time measures to combat and eradicate the disease, including rules for the establishment of protection and surveillance zones and the deployment of vaccines. in order to ensure better control of the spread of bluetongue virus and to reduce the burden of that disease on the agricultural sector, it is appropriate to amend the current vaccination rules laid down in directive 2000/75/ec to take account of the latest improvements in vaccine production technology. the amendments provided for in this directive should make the rules on vaccination more flexible and should also take into account the availability of inactivated vaccines which can be successfully deployed outside areas where animal movement restrictions apply. i believe that amendments to the legislation are necessary to take account of technological progress in vaccine development. the proposed amendments would also facilitate the adoption of bluetongue control strategies based on the specific situation in the member states without unnecessary union intervention.
in writing. − if you have the creation of an integrated market for electronic payments in euro without substantial differences between national and cross-border payments is essential for the proper functioning of the internal market. to this end, the single euro payments area (sepa) project aims to develop common union-wide payment instruments to replace the current national payment instruments. it is sepa that should provide union citizens and businesses with secure, easy-to-use and reliable euro payment services at competitive prices. at the same time, there is a presumption that there will be room for creating favourable conditions for increased competition in payment services and for the unrestricted development and rapid implementation of payment-related innovations. it can be expected that there will be an increase in savings as a result, in particular due to the increased operational efficiency. pressures for a general price reduction will be exerted, which should have a significant impact in particular in member states where payments are relatively expensive compared to other countries. the success of sepa is very important from an economic, monetary and political point of view. it is fully in line with the europe 2020 strategy aiming at a smarter economy. it is for this reason that i believe that it is justified and important to make efforts to achieve a smooth and rapid transition to sepa.
in writing. − the proposal to create an internal market for payments without differentiating between internal and external payment systems aims to simplify and reduce fees for payments in european currency throughout the european union. this initiative started as early as 2008, but progress was very slow. on 16 december 2010, the commission therefore published a draft regulation to set deadlines for the prohibition of interchange fees and their transfer to the sepa structure. in addition to simplifying and making payments more accessible to citizens and businesses, the potential benefit to the european economy could be between eur 100 and 300 billion over a six-year period. i think that the transitional periods for replacing the existing national payment systems with a single european system with union-wide schemes, common standards and technical requirements should be as short as possible. in the context of multilateral interchange fees, the commission proposed to keep fees only for r-type transactions, while other transactions should become free of charge. i welcome this proposal because the proposed changes maintain the ambitions set out in the commission proposal while ensuring a high level of consumer protection and safeguarding the national practices in this area.
in writing. - baudilio tomé muguruza is a spanish national. he graduated with a degree in law and a minor in business administration. previously, he was the coordinator for corporate taxation at the directorate-general for tax administration, working on corporate taxation reform and on ways of integrating income and corporate taxation. he also represented the spanish government in the council and commission working groups on the taxation of legal persons and european public limited companies. he represented the spanish government at the european union council of ministers for telecommunications and audiovisual affairs. during the spanish eu presidency, he was responsible for promoting the adoption of the telecoms package of directives and the e-europe 2005 strategic plan. he is currently also acting as chief inspector, financial controller and auditor of public finances. he was a member of the spanish parliament from 2004 to 2008 and from 2008 to 2011. member of the economic and financial committee, the committee on budgets and the committee on science and technology. he is the author of several book publications. the committee on budgetary control assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate, and the european parliament subsequently agreed to the council's proposal to appoint him as a member of the court of auditors, instructing its president to forward this decision to the council and for information to the court of auditors, the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states.
after several years of the european council blocking the continuation of union food aid to the most deprived, we are finally getting to the point where we can discuss and approve the continuation of this aid in 2012 and 2013. given that this interim programme already takes into account most of the substantial changes proposed by the european parliament, such as the procurement of food in accordance with the rules of competition or the use of food mainly originating in the union, there is no reason to prolong this process by submitting further amendments. it is therefore also necessary to respect the annual ceiling of eur 500 million for the union's assistance and to ensure that food aid is distributed efficiently and meaningfully so that it reaches those who need it most. but we must start working on the mechanisms for continuing this programme beyond 2013 today, commissioner, otherwise we may be left without help in europe after that date.
access to food and adequate nutrition should be fundamental rights for every citizen. the statistics prove otherwise. in 2008, 13 million people in 18 member states benefited from food aid, but by 2010 that figure had risen to 18 million. the economic crisis and the associated decline in employment have brought more poverty for more people who have become dependent on food aid. the programme must therefore remain one of the key options for protecting those who rely on it most in the future. the effectiveness of the programme must be not only in its availability but also in its speed. let us avoid the mistakes we have in the individual member states, for example in my country, slovakia, where redistribution takes a very long time and is accompanied by misunderstandings, which makes the aid provided meaningless. therefore, the chain from production to distribution must be organised as quickly and efficiently as possible.
the milk and milk products sector has recently undergone significant changes, which have been exacerbated by the financial and economic crisis. high input cost prices and the current decline in demand for dairy products have caused a reduction in the incomes of direct producers, but have not been reflected in reduced prices for final consumers. the lack of transparency in the functioning of the consumer chain thus reveals many inconsistencies which may indicate the existence of unfair commercial practices to the detriment of producers but also to the detriment of households at the end of the chain. i therefore believe that the dairy sector should take more account of fundamental market signals, such as in particular supply and demand, in setting prices, and that strengthening competition, clarifying the fundamental rights and obligations of individual actors, improving their awareness and responsibility should also lead to a fairer distribution of the total income within the chain and to an improvement in the adequate standard of living of livestock farmers.
i understand the effort of the highly indebted countries of the union to help themselves by financing their national debt with bonds that would be largely borne by others. however, only national governments are fully responsible for the management of their own economies. i therefore understand the caution of those governments which have no problem so far in borrowing at a reasonable premium on the financial markets, if they do not want to involve their countries in the dubious game of holding their country responsible for the exploitation of others. if the commission and some member states really think that the idea of jointly issuing so-called stabilisation bonds is as beneficial as they claim in the green paper, they could already consider issuing jointly issued bonds for a group of countries which see this as a way out of the crisis. we would all be interested to see what interest there would be in the financial markets in the issue of joint stabilization bonds by a group of southern european countries, for example, portugal, spain and cyprus, and what premium they would trade on the markets. if their surcharge were at the level of germany, i would say that this solution could be beneficial for the european union.
i consider consider considerations of introducing stabilisation bonds to be premature in the context of the unresolved sovereign debt and deficit crisis in many member states of the european union. the issuance of common bonds, which some see as a 'potentially powerful tool to address the limited solvency of some euro area member states', would in my view only divert attention from the acute, unresolved problems of fiscal discipline. the crisis requires the introduction and strict adherence to an appropriate fiscal framework and the simultaneous recovery of economic growth. continuing jointly with public debt would only deepen the current negative situation, although some negative effects would be delayed and masked in the short term, but the core of the problem would remain unchanged. the introduction of co-issued stabilisation bonds would also radically change the structure of the euro area sovereign bond market and introduce new, as yet little-studied risks for member states.
i'm not a financier, i just want to use common sense. let me ask you a question: does anyone else remember the stability bond advocates who caused the mortgage crisis in america? financial institutions created packages for investors with mortgages of varying quality. these collateralised bonds were to share the risk of defaulting on the mortgage. they were created by a political order. the effort to provide every citizen with a home loan, regardless of their financial capabilities. what we now call stability bonds is no different. it's a political effort to make additional loans available to those who can't afford to pay them back. even the strictest rules of financial discipline fail if they are not enforceable. in the case of mortgages, the lender could recover part of the loan by selling the property. for sovereign debt, this option does not exist. i think the risks of eurobonds have not been sufficiently taken into account.
in writing. the green paper on the feasibility of the introduction of stabilisation bonds assesses the feasibility of a joint sovereign bond issue by individual euro area countries and the conditions required. state-owned issuance in the euro area is currently conducted by member states at a decentralised level using different issuance procedures. the introduction of jointly issued stabilisation bonds would mean pooling member states' sovereign issues and merging the related revenue streams and debt service costs. this would significantly change the structure of the euro area sovereign bond market, which accounts for the largest share of the euro area financial market as a whole. as the sovereign debt crisis in the euro area intensified, a broader debate was sparked on the feasibility of a joint issue. a significant number of politicians, market analysts and academics have supported the idea of a common issue and have identified it as a potentially powerful tool to address the limited solvency of several euro area member states. the joint issue of stabilisation bonds would also require a further shift towards a common economic and fiscal policy. the commission should indicate the progress of the consultations on the stability bonds referred to in the green paper or the further steps it intends to take following the public consultations on its green paper. i personally believe that the introduction of the common bonds is one of the key points in the fight against the current crisis. i hope that the council will take a firm stand on this.
in accordance with article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the related powers, the european commission submitted a proposal for a multiannual radio spectrum policy programme as early as 2010. in may 2011, the european parliament proposed a number of amendments aimed at opening up new possibilities by allocating suitable radio spectrum for fast wireless broadband communications. although not all the european parliament's requests were understood and supported by the european council, the joint efforts succeeded in laying a good foundation for a new european radio spectrum policy. the fact that the 800 mhz frequency band will be open to wireless broadband internet services in all member states from 2013 and will be supplemented by 1200 mhz spectrum for mobile data transmission from 2015 will allow the european union to rapidly develop broadband connectivity and a european telecommunications market of 500 million users. let us hope that the new spectrum allocation contained in this agreement will actually bring about the expected improvement in the speed and quality of data communications in europe.
i believe that the next summit will finally bring some results, because the fiscal agreement alone will certainly not bring the european union out of the crisis. by cutting back, they may well fall into recession and eventually become even more difficult to pay off their debts because of the economic downturn and their burden will continue to grow. the need to boost employment growth is still underestimated. while austerity measures are slowly being legislated, the growth and jobs initiative has remained a mere challenge. such practices are extremely unfortunate from a european point of view. the growth initiative is weak. the fiscal agreement is being adopted outside the framework of the european treaties and with exceptions, and the role of the european parliament, that is us, in negotiating these matters is being completely minimised. europe must remain united and adhere to democratic principles and existing legal frameworks. resources must be sought that can be reasonably invested in economic recovery.
first of all, i would like to highlight the report presented by mrs berès, particularly because it not only stresses the need for austerity measures but also regards the current crisis as a social crisis. the dominant focus on savings has led to an inconsistent approach so far. fiscal and macroeconomic stability were pursued without taking into account mainly social and educational objectives as well as the employment objectives of the 2020 strategy. investments in sustainable jobs must be a priority. we must ensure that the most vulnerable groups and those most affected by the crisis are protected against the redistributive effects of the economic crisis and the fiscal consolidation plans. we also need to address the lack of quality jobs with decent wages and decent working conditions.
in writing. the austerity measures introduced by many eu countries in response to the crisis are leading to a deepening of poverty across the eu. the labour market situation is very critical, especially for young people, regardless of their level of education. the crisis has also affected people approaching retirement age, the long-term unemployed and unskilled workers. the commitments made in the national reform programmes are not sufficient to achieve the europe 2020 targets in the areas of employment, education and poverty reduction. we must therefore focus on integrated reform measures that support growth in the short, medium and long term. the european council, in its political guidelines, must ensure that eu funds are allocated to achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity, the european council must adopt guidelines aimed at increasing revenue through fair, progressive, redistributive, efficient and effective taxation, in order to promote the fight against tax evasion through better tax coordination, thereby ensuring the fairness of the system and preserving social cohesion.
malnutrition is not just a problem in developing countries; it is also a threat to 43 million people right here in europe. in fact, in the context of the economic crisis, the number of people who are no longer able to protect their own, or life's necessities, is rapidly increasing. the most vulnerable include the homeless, the elderly, the unemployed and the disabled, single parents with children and large families. the food distribution programme for the most deprived, which has helped to ensure that the poorest people in the union are supplied with food during its 22 years of existence, is a very commendable initiative. i regret that this very type of tangible aid in emergencies has been blocked in the council for more than two years and is even threatened to disappear after 2013. i am sorry that countries such as germany, denmark, the netherlands, sweden, the czech republic are against this.
in recent years, unfortunately, there have been many events that have had a significant negative impact on the activity of the milk and milk products sector and have also caused price volatility. the european market for milk and milk products requires a new, flexible legal framework, strengthened contractual relations, protection of producers' rights and a fairer distribution of added value in the supply chain. competition on the market will also contribute to the revitalization of a sector which is also suffering from the abuse of a dominant position by some players. i am convinced that the protection of the legitimate interests of producers is closely linked to the development of the prosperity of rural areas, since many european regions, often the most vulnerable, are directly dependent on the production of milk and milk products.
at a time of weaker economic growth and increased uncertainty for citizens, the european union needs to focus its attention on addressing the burning social consequences of the crisis, which are deepening poverty and social exclusion. unemployment has risen sharply since 2008 to reach 23 million unemployed in the eu, with young people in particular facing an employment rate of over 20%. some statistics give more. for example, i am concerned that between 2008 and 2010, the total number of unemployed young people in the eu increased by a full 1 million. the eu's priority objective must therefore remain, even in the context of recession, to maintain and create jobs while matching skills and skills to current labour market requirements. that is why i also supported this report.
in writing. − the european parliament, taking into account the proposal for a council decision and the proposal for an agreement between the european union and the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation on the participation by those states in the work of the committees which assist the european commission in the exercise of its executive powers in relation to the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis, and also having regard to the recommendation of the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, gives its consent to the conclusion of the agreement in question. instructs its president to forward this position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states, the republic of iceland, the principality of liechtenstein, the kingdom of norway and the swiss confederation.
in writing. − if you have the schengen system currently includes 22 union states and four non-member states iceland, liechtenstein, norway and switzerland. non-member states are integrated into the schengen system by association agreements. it was these agreements which established the joint committee, composed of representatives of the governments of the associated countries, as well as of the council of the european union and the commission. representatives of the associated states shall then participate in the activities of the joint committees, which shall meet in the form of council working groups extended to include representatives of the associated states. in the council or in coreper, the groups shall be chaired alternately by a representative of the european union and a representative of the government of the associated state, each for a period of six months. i consider the conclusion of the agreement between the european communities and these four states on cooperation in the implementation, application and development of the schengen acquis to be of great importance and therefore fully support the conclusions of the libe vote.
in writing. − article 145 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union provides that member states and the union shall work towards developing a coordinated strategy for employment and in particular to promote a skilled, trained and flexible workforce. the europe 2020 strategy proposed by the european commission will enable the union to steer its economy towards smart, sustainable and inclusive growth, accompanied by high levels of employment, productivity and social cohesion. the european employment strategy has a leading role in meeting the objectives of the new strategy on employment and the labour market. i believe that member states need to continue their efforts to tackle the challenges in the priority areas of increasing labour market participation and reducing structural unemployment, and to seek to develop a skilled workforce in line with labour market needs and to make efforts to promote quality jobs and lifelong learning. i believe that the employment guidelines adopted in 2010 should remain unchanged until 2014 to ensure their smooth implementation. the minimum number of references should be as small as possible, especially those which are most necessary.
in writing. − council regulation (eec) no 3730/87 established the general rules governing the supply of food to the most deprived persons in the union. that regulation has subsequently been repealed and incorporated into the regulation establishing a common organisation of agricultural markets and on specific provisions for certain agricultural products. rising food prices are currently adversely affecting the food security of the most deprived and, in addition, increasing the cost of providing food aid. the objectives of the common agricultural policy therefore include stabilising markets and, in particular, ensuring supplies to consumers at reasonable prices. the european union scheme, as far as food distribution is concerned, cannot be the only answer to the growing need for food aid in the union. national policies implemented by public administrations and the mobilisation of civil society are also necessary to ensure food safety. however, the scheme could serve as a model for the distribution of food to the most deprived, and could help to encourage public and private initiatives aimed at improving the food security of those in need.
in writing. − if you have in september 2010, the european commission presented a proposal for a decision on the establishment of a first radio spectrum policy programme, based on article 114 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union and on article 8a (3) of directive 2002/21/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 7 march 2002 providing that the commission may submit a legislative proposal establishing a multiannual radio spectrum policy programme. the proposal sets out the policy direction and objectives for the strategic planning and harmonisation of spectrum use up to the period of 2015. the proposal will allow the european union to take the lead in terms of broadband speed, mobility or coverage. it is a prerequisite for the establishment of a flexible and coordinated european radio spectrum policy. the opening of the 800mhz band to electronic communications services from 1 january 2013 will contribute to the creation of a pan-european telecommunications market, and new services may in turn create opportunities for the consumer market. in times of economic crisis, the telecommunications sector is one of those that can contribute to growth and activity and to the availability of new services for european citizens, as long as efforts are made to exploit its potential, focusing in particular on the economic, social and cultural well-being of society.
in writing. - the european union has one of the largest economies in the world. contrary to popular misconception, neither the us nor china have a larger economy, but they do have a better environment for competitiveness, new services and innovation. the digital agenda and the digital economy can be the key to our global leadership in broadband it services in terms of speed, mobility, coverage and capacity. the agreement now adopted will ensure access to the highest capacity and the highest speed for internet and broadband applications. we need to open up to new services and increased mobile traffic as soon as possible. in the context of broadband services, we need to lay the foundations for new opportunities for culture and content, broadcasters and public services. today, it's becoming natural to have video conferences and meetings online, and that's only going to increase in the future. therefore, we need to ensure that the deployment of mobile broadband is accelerated so that by 2020 every eu citizen has access to internet at a speed of at least 30 mbps, thereby bridging the digital divide and contributing to the objectives of the digital agenda for europe. i was trying to contribute by voting for him.
in writing. − access to radio spectrum is essential for a wide range of applications, from telecommunications and broadcasting services to transport and space. the importance of broad and equal access to radio spectrum lies in enabling citizens to fully benefit from the benefits of digital technology. better use of spectrum could also support the european economy, as the introduction of high-speed wireless services will boost competitiveness and growth. this political agreement will pave the way for development that will enable the eu to take a global position in broadband speed, mobility, coverage and capacity. the agreement of the member states and the proposal of the european parliament and the commission to make the 800 mhz frequency band available for electronic communications from 1 january 2013 will contribute to the creation of a pan-european telecommunications market where new services can create opportunities and growth for a 500 million consumer market. it is also necessary to recognise that accelerating the development of mobile broadband to at least 30 mbps by 2020 for all eu citizens will contribute to achieving the goals of the digital agenda for europe.
in writing. − the gradual reforms of the common organisation of the markets in milk and milk products have been market-oriented in order to promote the competitiveness of the milk and milk products sector and its sustainability in the context of globalised trade. the milk and milk products sector has undergone extraordinary developments between 2007 and 2009. first, extreme weather conditions in oceania caused a significant drop in supply, leading to a rapid and significant increase in prices. although world supplies have started to recover and prices have returned to more usual levels, the subsequent financial and economic crisis has negatively affected milk producers in the eu, further contributing to price volatility. in view of the serious situation on the milk market, and in line with the outcome of the review of the state of play of the reform of the common agricultural policy, the group of experts should have worked on a regulatory framework to be implemented in order to contribute to stabilising the market and producers' incomes and to increase transparency. in order to ensure a rational development of production and thereby to ensure a fair standard of living for dairy farmers, their bargaining power vis-à-vis processors should be strengthened, which could lead to a fairer distribution of added value within the supply chain.
in writing. − if you have in order to improve the assessment of own-initiative reports, the conference of presidents decided that the ini reports drawn up on the basis of the annual activity report and the monitoring report should be considered as strategic reports within the meaning of the last sentence of article 48 (2) of the rules of procedure. the conference of presidents also decided to invite the committee on constitutional affairs to consider whether articles 163 and 167 should apply to the reports of the ini. since it is clear from the recommendations adopted by the conference of presidents that whether or not the ini report is strategic within the meaning of the last sentence of rule 48 (2) of the rules of procedure will be decided by the conference of presidents at the stage of approval by applying a more political interpretation of the decision of the conference of presidents of 12 december 2002, as amended (annex xviii to the rules of procedure) , it is appropriate to amend the last sentence of rule 48 (2). as regards the question whether articles 163 and 167 should apply to the ini reports, the report states that a split vote should be possible only for own-initiative reports referred to in the last sentence of article 48 (2). requests for roll-call votes should be granted only in the final vote, except for the reports referred to in the last sentence of article 48 (2).
in writing. − parliament asked the commission to report on the possibility of introducing european securities, which are an integral part of the agreement between parliament and the council on the package of six legislative proposals on economic governance. the euro area is in a unique situation where euro area member states have a single currency without a common fiscal policy and a single bond market. however, issuing bonds on the basis of joint and several liability would require a process of deeper integration. as the issuer of the world's second largest international currency, the euro area has a shared responsibility for the stability of the international monetary system. it is in its long-term strategic interest to take full advantage of the euro's issuance, which has the potential to become a global reserve currency. the euro area and its member states are responsible for ensuring the long-term stability of a currency used by more than 330 million people, as well as many companies and investors, with implications for the rest of the world. stabilisation bonds would help facilitate the transfer of euro area monetary policy and promote efficiency in the bond market and in the wider euro area financial system. i also believe that the introduction of a sustainable fiscal framework aimed at better economic governance and growth is a necessary condition for the joint issuance of bonds. i also believe that the prospect of stabilisation bonds can strengthen stability in the euro area.
in writing. − the social consequences of the crisis are far-reaching and are currently aggravated by the impact of austerity measures introduced in some countries in response to the sovereign debt crisis, job losses in both the private and public sectors, and cuts in social security benefits and public services. this situation leads to a deepening of poverty across the eu. the labour market situation is particularly critical for young people, regardless of their level of education, partly due to the mismatch between acquired skills and labour market requirements. but, in addition, people approaching retirement age, the long-term unemployed, workers from outside the eu and unskilled workers are also among those hit hardest by the crisis. the crisis has created new categories of people at risk of poverty and, when fiscal consolidation measures are poorly targeted and regressive, social protection systems are negatively affected and the number of people at risk of income poverty, child poverty, severe material deprivation and social exclusion is increasing. for this reason, i believe that the implementation of integrated active inclusion strategies should become a central element of social policy programmes at eu and national level. in view of the worst economic crisis the union has ever experienced, there is an urgent need to put in place national reform programmes.
in writing. − the 2012 annual growth survey presented by the commission appears to be a good basis for this year's european semester. solutions specifically targeting the current sovereign debt and financial crisis, and on which all the institutions are working on a daily basis, should be coupled with a focus on medium- and long-term measures to boost growth, as well as a reworking of the general economic framework in order to improve the sustainability and competitiveness of the european economy and ensure its lasting success. however, the annual growth survey falls short of what is needed to restore the confidence of european households and businesses as well as financial markets, as it overlooks the need to take urgent action to support short-term activities and employment while investing in the europe 2020 objectives. the fact that member states do not implement or implement unevenly the directives agreed at eu level is a cause for concern, preventing their potential to achieve the europe 2020 objectives from being fully unleashed. it is therefore gratifying that the annual growth survey for this year emphasises the need for both the implementation of the above directives and growth-enhancing actions. it is precisely democratic legitimacy and the assumption of responsibility for change by member states that need to be substantially strengthened. last but not least, the fight against social exclusion and poverty should remain a high priority for all policies.
we need to work together on both: removing assad, but also democratization within syria. it takes a few points. first, clear support for the arab league plan. secondly, close cooperation with turkey. he's a key power player in the region. thirdly, cooperation with russia, not only at the un but also at the bilateral level between the european union and russia. fourth, cooperation with opposition forces, including on the detailed post-saddam plan for the democratization of syria. and fifth, and i think this is the most important, to also work with the forces of the ruling ba'ath party willing to support syria's transition to a democratic regime. this is a key lesson from, for example, post-husseini iraq. and at the same time, working with this unit would also prevent the islamists from taking power in syria. and i think that's what we all want.
mr president, we have been hearing of terrible atrocities taking place in syria for eleven months now. according to the un, over 5000 syrians have been killed in president assad’s bloody attempts to suppress a popular revolution. the western world, together with the arab league, condemns the actions of the current syrian government and urges president assad to listen to the syrian people, give up his political power and facilitate free elections, as he promised in the past. however, such appeals were rejected by russia and china, most recently in the un security council vote on a syria resolution that included sanctions against president assad’s regime. i stress the need for further diplomatic action in order to change russia’s opinion and support the syrian public fighting for change. baroness ashton has already spoken in strong terms before this parliament about the need for russia to change its attitude towards its ally in the middle east in the light of syria’s bloody actions against its own citizens. i continue to support the baroness in her efforts to influence the russian ambassador to the un and make him realise that he is supporting a regime that commits acts bordering on genocide. recent events in syria are intolerable, and we must continue to exert political pressure on the syrian government, as well as on russia and china, to change their opinions and to protect the people of syria from their own government.
a few days ago, an 18-year-old nun set herself on fire at the mamae monastery for women in the tibetan-inhabited ngawa district of southwest china's sichuan province in protest against the religious policies of the chinese administration. security forces have sealed off access to the monastery immediately after the incident and are applying a strict information embargo in case of an incident. the chinese nation is one of the oldest, most cultured and civilized nations in the world, and so i cannot understand where in the highest representatives of this great, educated and decent nation comes so much hatred and malice towards the countless defenseless tibetan people who want nothing more than to maintain their own culture and faith. perhaps, then, the 19th session of the united nations human rights council could be used to remind the leaders of the world powers that if we want a better world, their behavior must be guided by decency, wisdom, and generosity toward the weak.
the rapporteur identified areas where parliament has reservations and showed the way to work efficiently and save money. as rapporteur for the 2010 budget, i have consulted with representatives of the european institutions and the directorates-general of the european parliament on what their budgets will look like. we've managed to uncover a number of inefficient practices and save millions of euros. on the basis of concrete examples of mismanagement, which we cannot all identify from the inside, meps adopted a report in which we said: 'an independent evaluation of the european parliament's activities is needed'. we have agreed to initiate such an assessment in the directorate-general for infrastructure and logistics and in the security service area. however, instead of an independent external evaluation, there was only an internal audit. if we evaluate ourselves and don't want to see the outside expert's view, we don't reveal reserves. ladies and gentlemen, the crisis has forced viable businesses and institutions to seek reserves and use resources efficiently. as president of a local government area in my country, i manage an area that has about as many staff as the european parliament. the crisis has caused us to run out of resources by over 20%. without thorough analysis and decisive action, we could not have handled this situation. i think that the secretary-general of the european parliament has taken a lot of useful measures that have produced positive results, but that is not enough. we should learn from the european court of auditors, which was the first european institution to undertake an independent evaluation of its own work. the court of auditors reduced its administrative costs and made its work much more efficient even before the crisis. such a path leads to the necessary structural changes. if we go after it, we'll save millions of euros and be more efficient.
our blind and visually impaired citizens have turned to me for help in solving their problem of granting copyright exemptions for the cross-border distribution of works specially produced or adapted for them. the copyright committee of the world intellectual property organization proposes to address the demand of the visually impaired and blind community by a binding international treaty that would open up to them unrestricted access to special printed matter from other countries. this is what the representatives of our blind and partially sighted citizens prefer to see than the adoption of non-binding recommendations proposed by the representatives of the european union, and they are therefore seeking to change the union's position. as the european parliament already considered such a solution appropriate in april 2011, we should support the request made by our visually impaired and blind citizens.
for the efd group. to begin with, any strengthening of the safety deposit system is good news for our citizens who put their savings into financial institutions. the revision of directive 94/19/ec on deposit-guarantee schemes is also justified today by the fact that there are now several dozen different deposit-guarantee schemes in the union with different obligations for financial institutions and different levels of deposit protection. the same deposit protection rules across the european union for the residual of a depositor's legal right to protection of up to eur 100 000 give the same security to depositors in all countries of the union, thus avoiding unnecessary movements of deposits between countries. however, i find the mechanism of borrowing money between member states' systems problematic, since in certain situations it could also become a mechanism for spilling the crisis from one country to another, and that would certainly not be good.
the protection of data of citizens and of the institutions of the european union is guaranteed by legal and contractual instruments of the union. any interference by third countries with the protected rights of our people is unacceptable. i therefore believe that in order to maintain good relations with the united states, it is essential to have an open dialogue with them in order to build better partnerships. the european union is not yet a colony of the united states of america, and therefore we cannot accept the extraterritorial effects of american laws on the territory of the union. our citizens rightly expect the european commission to be aware of these fundamental rules and to reach an agreement with its american partners in the regulatory dialogue that will remove the doubts of our citizens and institutions about the possible effects of the patriot act or facta on their lives.
i'd like to talk about the things that are questionable from my point of view. i would include among these areas the very definition of the so-called reasonable prospect of obtaining a right of permanent residence. this vague definition from the green paper can be dangerous, in particular in that if too much leeway of interpretation is left to member states, the result will be that no third-country national will be able to act as a guarantor for a family member. in some member states, a potential sponsor must have resided in the territory of the state for at least 2 years before applying to take in a family member. the background to these requirements is, in particular, the desire to monitor the behaviour and economic situation of the applicant as a potential guarantor. this is how the politically engineered separation of families in time and space is created. several ngos have pointed out that this is a violation of the right to privacy and family life as provided for in article 8 of the convention. furthermore, it may not be the right to marry and the principle of non-discrimination. for this reason, i am in favour of reducing the length of the procedure and the waiting period. the report on the implementation of the directive and the green paper also highlight problems and shortcomings in the implementation of this directive at national level. they raise concerns regarding the transposition of this directive. they conclude that too much leeway is left to the member states to apply certain of its provisions.
elections are the cornerstone of any democratic system. for such a system to work, elections must be free and fair. the other parliamentary elections in russia reflected the distorted reality that the country is currently in. not entirely free, and not entirely fair. they have shown that citizens are allowed to express their will in elections, but that this will is ultimately not respected. the eu must bring these issues to russia's attention and draw conclusions from them in the further development of relations. i therefore support the resolution we adopted today and the provision that the eu should put pressure on russia to thoroughly investigate all irregularities that accompanied these elections, so that consequences can be drawn. this appeal is all the more urgent as russia faces another election soon.
i am pleased that the european parliament has adopted a resolution and reiterated its call on the commission to support the treaty on the copyright of books and printed matter for the blind and visually impaired. i agree that blind and dyslexic people should be allowed to read books and print in accessible formats as much as possible, but also to legally distribute such records across borders. i think this is one way that we can expand what has been a very limited access for the visually impaired to publications. i therefore support the targeted exception concerning copyright to be included in an international treaty drawn up on the basis of the world intellectual property organisation. i hope that this resolution will help to encourage the commission and the council to support the wipo convention on the copyright of books and printed works for the blind and visually impaired.
in writing. − no bank, regardless of its financial position, has sufficient liquidity to pay all or a substantial part of its deposits on the spot. the commission notes that the bank's capital needs are not covered by the banking communication. this can have serious repercussions for the whole economy. there are currently around 40 deposit protection schemes in the eu, which protect different groups of depositors and deposits with different levels of cover and impose different financial obligations on banks, limiting the benefits of the internal market for both banks and depositors. in order to facilitate the taking up and pursuit of the business of credit institutions, it is necessary to eliminate differences between the laws of the member states as regards the rules on deposit-guarantee schemes to which those institutions are subject. the directive in question constitutes an essential instrument for the establishment of an internal market in the field of the activities of credit institutions in terms of the freedom of establishment and the freedom to provide financial services, while enhancing the stability of the banking system and the protection of depositors. it should create a level playing field for credit institutions, allow depositors to easily understand the characteristics of deposit protection schemes and facilitate the rapid payout of depositors by sound and trustworthy deposit protection schemes in the interests of financial stability. for this reason, it is necessary to harmonise and simplify the protection of deposits as far as possible.
in writing. − the ceiling for heading 5 of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the 2013 eu budget is eur 9 181 million in current prices. the accession of croatia will also have an impact on the 2013 budget, in particular as regards appropriations for new members and staff recruitment in all the institutions. in view of the high burden resulting from the public debt and the time constraints of ongoing efforts at national fiscal consolidation, the european parliament and all other institutions should demonstrate budgetary responsibility and self-restraint. in the context of the continuing difficult economic conditions, the institutions should freeze their administrative budgets. however, it is also necessary to respect legally binding obligations and possible subsequent increases. i believe it is essential that the institutions strengthen interinstitutional cooperation in order to exchange best practice, seek savings and thus modernise their policies on human resources, organisation, technology and buildings. it is also important and justified to work towards strengthening non-discriminatory policies that facilitate the access, reception and integration of people with disabilities. in order to achieve significant long-term savings, it is appropriate that all institutions seek further savings in an effort to maintain budgetary discipline and freeze their budgets, taking into account their legal obligations and new financial requirements.
in writing. − in the light of the implementation plan adopted at the 2002 un world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg, the european community commits itself, inter alia, to maintain or restore fish stocks at levels capable of producing the maximum sustainable yield, with a view to achieving these objectives rapidly in the event of stock depletion and, if possible, by 2015 at the latest. the western stock is the economically most important stock of norway lobster in union waters. biological information on these stocks is not sufficient for an overall assessment of these stocks which would allow for the setting of a fishing mortality target related to the maximum sustainable yield and which could base the total allowable catch on scientific forecasts in this area. preventive scientific advice suggested that the annual catches of western hake should be kept below 150 000 tonnes for several years from 2003, provided that this would make the exploitation of stocks sustainable, even if there is no exceptionally high replenishment of stocks in the future. the areas for which annual total catch limits for blue whiting are established do not correspond to the stock limits for this fish in the atlantic ocean. it is necessary to ensure that the catch rules provide for a precautionary approach to the management of those stocks.
in writing. − fishing is one of the oldest human activities and fish are an important and indispensable part of the human diet. therefore, efforts related to the protection and maintenance of fish stocks are necessary. the role of fisheries as a food provider for human society has been long recognised and widely recognised. the fisheries sector, including wild fish and aquaculture, is an activity that contributes to the production of irreplaceable common goods through the three main components fishing, processing and marketing. the fisheries sector provides high-quality food for europe's population and creates economic and social added value for the european union. it is therefore necessary that the reformed common fisheries policy ensures the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and the protection and maintenance of fish stocks at healthy levels, in such a way that fishing activities can continue within their traditional areas and communities in the long term. the fisheries sector is one of the most important pillars of food security for the european union and its sustainability and stability must therefore be ensured through the reform of the common fisheries policy so that in the future the sector can supply fishery products of sufficient quality and quantity to meet the demand of more than half a billion european citizens.
in writing. − hungary adopted a new constitution in april last year, but the adoption itself and some of its provisions were criticised by the european parliament in a resolution of 5 july 2011. the hungarian government was invited to address the questions and comments raised by the venice commission and the european commission was also invited to carry out a thorough review and analysis of the new constitution and laws to verify their compliance with the acquis communautaire and in particular with the eu charter of fundamental rights. the president of the european commission, josé manuel barroso, also expressed concern about the implementation of democracy in hungary and called on the hungarian authorities to respect the principles of democracy and freedom and to implement them not only in principle but also in practice and in political and social life in hungary. the comments and concerns presented are not intended to criticise the republic of hungary and the hungarian citizens. but i am convinced that the protection of fundamental rights, civil liberties, our common european values, as well as peace, security and good coexistence - all these values should be respected and preserved.
in writing. - europe has turned on itself, and this is also true of the european institutions. it is astonishing how much effort the ep can put into making one of its member states a quagmire in a time of economic crisis. where is european solidarity and justice if the european commission, which in theory has an objective and thoroughly researched opinion, is biased towards one of the eu member states? there seems to be no room for independent thinking within the eu, and superficial hype has taken over instead of solving real problems. i do not believe that after the closure of hundreds of infringement proceedings against hungary, those politicians who today speak in a hateful and unacceptable tone about a democratically elected and constituted government will treat the hungarian situation differently. it is a shame that so many of the representatives of the new and old member states are assisting in this. the european parliament has become a battleground of irresponsible political battles, where it is much easier to make loud speeches and to worry hypocritically about a member state than to fulfil the political obligations it has promised to the citizens of the union. i strongly condemn the decision, which contains points that seriously undermine hungary's self-determination, is politically motivated and completely detached from reality. the socialist, liberal and green authors of the resolution have crossed a line which is totally unacceptable where they constantly talk about democracy and solidarity. i could never vote for such a shameful resolution.
in writing. - hungary is currently experiencing significant social and political upheavals. the new hungarian constitution, which not only made a good advertisement for apple (part of it was allegedly written on their best-selling tablet), but also caused a lot of protests inside the country and a wave of discontent in brussels. the contested laws under the new hungarian constitution concern, for example, the independence of the hungarian central bank, the retirement of judges, the independence of the office for personal data protection, or the controversial media law. the developments in hungary are, unfortunately, a great disappointment! prime minister orbán is swinging between budapest and brussels, where he always says something different. this irresponsible action by the hungarian government resulted in a month-long ultimatum from the european commission to amend the contested laws. the response to the criticism was swift, in the form of absurd accusations of some kind of liberal-social-democratic conspiracy. viktor orbán somehow does not want to realize that by seeking to concentrate as much power as possible in the hands of the prime minister, he is harming his own citizens. our primary task is to defend the interests of eu citizens and therefore also of hungarian citizens. i therefore consider the situation to be very serious and to be closely monitored.
in writing. − eu-russia relations have been developing steadily over the past decades, leading to a deep and complex interdependence that is certain to multiply in the future. the conclusion of the eu-russian federation strategic partnership agreement will continue to be of particular importance for strengthening cooperation between the two partners. however, concerns remain about developments in the russian federation with regard to respect for and protection of human rights and respect for commonly agreed principles of democracy, electoral rules and procedures. the russian federation is a full member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce), and is therefore obliged to uphold the principles of democracy and respect for human rights. according to the final report of the osce/odihr observer mission, the duma elections of 4 december 2011 did not fully respect the principles of free and fair elections and were marked by a convergence of the state and the ruling party, including a lack of independence of the electoral bodies, media bias and state interference at various levels. in several mass demonstrations, russian citizens have expressed their desire for wider democracy and comprehensive reform of the electoral system. i think that this is how the recent demonstrations should be understood, as an opportunity to respond to the russian people's call for greater democracy, electoral law reform and compliance with the standards of the council of europe and the osce in cooperation with the venice commission.
in writing. − the association agreement between the european union and morocco entered into force in 2000. in december 2010, the council of the european union signed a document which, after ratification by the european parliament, would allow the second phase of the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fishery products between the european union and the kingdom of morocco to start. as regards agriculture and fisheries, the new agreement gives mutual preference to the strengthening of large-scale industrial farming at the expense of family and small-scale farming. increasing reduced-rate quotas for a wide range of fruit and vegetables will put european producers in a difficult competitive position and will not even strengthen the balanced development of agriculture in morocco. we must not forget the eu's commitments in the wake of the arab spring to help the countries of the southern mediterranean transition to democracy through trade and economic instruments to ensure greater freedom and greater economic opportunities. in this context, the agreement in question appears to be a positive step towards promoting political stabilisation and mutually sustainable economic development. it is the liberalisation of trade between the eu and morocco that can lead to mutual benefits, increased economic growth, prosperity, job creation and poverty eradication.
in writing. − the association agreement between the european union and morocco entered into force in 2000. in december 2010, the council of the european union signed a document which, after ratification by the european parliament, would allow the second phase of the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fishery products between the european union and the kingdom of morocco to start. as regards agriculture and fisheries, the new agreement gives mutual preference to the strengthening of large-scale industrial farming at the expense of family and small-scale farming. increasing reduced-rate quotas for a wide range of fruit and vegetables will put european producers in a difficult competitive position and will not even strengthen the balanced development of agriculture in morocco. we must not forget the eu's commitments in the wake of the arab spring to help the countries of the southern mediterranean transition to democracy through trade and economic instruments to ensure greater freedom and greater economic opportunities. in this context, the agreement in question appears to be a positive step towards promoting political stabilisation and mutually sustainable economic development. it is the liberalisation of trade between the eu and morocco that can lead to mutual benefits, increased economic growth, prosperity, job creation and poverty eradication.
in writing. − according to un estimates, more than 6000 people, including over 400 children, have been killed, many more injured, thousands detained, including 380 children, and tens of thousands of people have sought refuge in neighbouring countries or been internally displaced since march 2011 in syria as a result of the repressive regime against the local population. cities and towns across syria are besieged and bombed, access to food and basic necessities is extremely difficult, and many syrians face a rapidly deteriorating humanitarian situation and displacement. despite widespread international condemnation of violence and human rights violations, including torture and sexual violence, crimes against humanity against non-violent civilians, including children, continue. the situation in syria is so heated that it threatens to lead to civil war. president bashar al-assad's numerous promises of reform and amnesty have never been implemented, and the regime has lost all credibility. in addition, calls are mounting for the president to step down. syria is undoubtedly facing the most serious problems today, which call for intervention by the competent european institutions. it is essential that the european union takes more decisive action to help bring about a peaceful political transformation in this area.
in writing. − respecting, promoting and protecting the universality of human rights is one of the cornerstones of european unity and integrity. the eu and the member states should guarantee respect for human rights in their own policies in order to strengthen coherence between internal and external policies, thereby enhancing the credibility of the eu and the unhrc. it is therefore welcome that the agenda of the 19th ordinary session includes, inter alia, discussions on the mainstreaming of human rights, freedom of expression on the internet, freedom of religion or belief and conscience, discrimination and violence on grounds of sexual orientation and gender identity, human rights and hiv/aids and the declaration on the rights of minorities, as well as extensive meetings on the rights of the child, torture, human rights and the fight against terrorism, disappearances and arbitrary detention. i believe it is essential that eu member states support the unhrc in equally addressing discrimination of all kinds, including gender discrimination, discrimination on grounds of racial origin, age, sexual orientation and religion or belief. it is necessary for member states to participate actively in the discussion of the reports submitted on, inter alia, the human rights situation in the dprk, iran and burma/myanmar, as well as on torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment, the situation of human rights defenders and freedom of religion or belief.
in writing. − access to books and other printed material for blind and visually impaired people is severely limited in the european union, as 95% of all books published are never converted into 'accessible formats' such as braille, large print or audio. it is regrettable that there is currently no international legal standard for a targeted exception to copyright rules for the cross-border distribution of formats adapted to persons with reading disabilities worldwide. for this reason, the copyright committee of the world intellectual property organization (wipo) is considering the development of an international treaty aimed at improving access to books for blind and other visually impaired persons. in its report of 13 april 2011 on unlocking the potential of the cultural and creative industries, the european parliament called on the eu to support a binding wipo treaty and calls on the council and the commission to support a binding wipo treaty with regard to copyright in books and printed matter for the blind and visually impaired. it is necessary and important to advocate for this treaty, as the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities itself, in particular articles 21 and 30, and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union lay down principles relating to the prohibition of discrimination against persons with disabilities.
in writing. − if you have in the spirit of the barcelona process, this convention accelerates the creation of a euro-mediterranean free trade area. the first step towards this goal was the association agreements between the eu and its mediterranean partners. the new pan-euro-mediterranean preferential rules of origin convention brings together the different rules of origin for goods traded under the relevant trade agreements concluded between the european union, the barcelona process participating countries (algeria, egypt, israel, jordan, lebanon, morocco, syria, tunisia, turkey and the palestinian authority), the efta states (iceland, norway, switzerland and liechtenstein), the faeroe islands and the countries participating in the stabilisation and association process (albania, bosnia and herzegovina, croatia, the former yugoslav republic of macedonia, montenegro and serbia, as well as kosovo under un security council resolution 1244/99). the adoption of a single simplified instrument will thus facilitate pan-euro-mediterranean cumulation of origin. last but not least, i think it is also worth mentioning that this important step should be followed by further ambitious plans to improve and promote trade in the region, starting as soon as possible with the updating of pan-euro-mediterranean rules of origin. the new democratic movement in the mediterranean should be an opportunity for european leaders not only to improve the human and social rights of their citizens, but also to make the most of the benefits offered by a friendlier political and economic environment in our southern neighbourhood.
in writing. − the global monitoring for environment and security (gmes) programme is one of the two major eu space initiatives and plays a key role in earth observation, which is a vital tool for combating climate change and environmental degradation, civil protection and security, sustainable development, mobility and crisis management, as well as securing important economic opportunities. gmes is of great political, strategic and technical importance to europe and offers very high value for money in terms of economic, social and technological benefits. the absence of a sound financing plan to ensure long-term and stable financial support would likely lead in the long term to higher costs, to differences in access to the output information and to different benefits for european citizens, to the suspension or even interruption of the programme and the provision of its information, and could ultimately mean that the investments made so far would become redundant and that europe would lose its independence and technological edge in this important space infrastructure. any uncertainties regarding the future of the gmes programme and its funding would significantly hamper the development and marketing of gmes services and applications, which are expected to bring economic growth and prosperity to european citizens.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, like many others i am very concerned about the deterioration of human rights, democracy and the rule of law in belarus. there are reports of torture and inhumane prison conditions suffered by political prisoners who were detained after the presidential elections. furthermore, we have to address the case of two young prisoners sentenced to death, whose detention, trial and sentencing were plagued by mistreatment, an unfair trial and torture allegations. the rights of a transparent appeal should be fully exercised. the eu must continue to support economic sanctions, a travel and eu asset freeze against lukashenko and his cronies, as well as a demand by the european parliament and us senate resolutions to relocate the 2014 ice hockey world championships. these actions should help in the freeing of all political prisoners and improving democracy in belarus.
belarus remains the last authoritarian country in europe. it is unacceptable and dangerous that this country still applies the death penalty, which can be used for its own purposes. president lukashenko says that he listens to the voice of the people in his decisions, and he should also listen to the voice of the 250,000 people who signed a petition last year to abolish the death penalty in belarus. the sentencing of dmitry konovalov, vladislav kovalov to the death penalty is accompanied by many doubts related to the allegations of torture and inhuman treatment. the guilt of these two young men has not been sufficiently proven. i would therefore like to reiterate my call to president lukashenko of belarus to introduce a moratorium on the death penalty in the country and to allow an objective investigation into the allegations related to the konovalov and kovalov cases.
first of all, i would like to say that i welcome the fact that we are discussing the issue of women's rights and gender equality in the european parliament. i was the socialist and democratic group's shadow rapporteur for the 2011 report on gender equality and i would like to thank the rapporteur and the other rapporteurs for a very constructive discussion, although i understand that in this area we have different views across the political spectrum on different issues with regard to this report. that's natural, of course. but i believe that we have a common goal, and that is that we, women, have the same status, rights and opportunities as men in today's society. this process is of course longer term, but we can help it together, for example by encouraging women to become more involved in the areas of work where they are in the minority, such as in the so-called green jobs, in science and research, in it, and by reducing the pay gap in equal work, by promoting quotas, for example in management and decision-making positions, whether in companies or in politics. it is also, of course, essential that we create the necessary legislation in the area of violence against women, where we still have a big problem. we cannot forget to pay sufficient attention to women's sexual and reproductive health, because all women must have control over their reproductive and sexual rights. and that's partly because we're giving them access to affordable, quality contraception. in order to enable women to participate fully in working life as men do, we must of course also support them in their important role as mothers, wives and family members, which is most often the responsibility of caring for the family, children, parents and relatives. we need to give women flexibility in their studies, the possibility of more flexible employment contracts and working hours, and social facilities for their loved ones, whether children or elderly relatives. in this context, i would also like to call on the council to finally resolve the issue of maternity and parental leave, as proposed by the european parliament last year. i hope that we will be able to continue to support this process of equality and that we will be able to draw up a report for next year which will be able to make much more progress than we have so far.
my dear officer. my fellow citizens! we have traditionally taken stock of the evolution of equal opportunities every year, and very often we are accused of not saying anything new. the thing is, in a year, not much changes, and so we can't say much new every year. the only new thing is that nothing has changed again. but change is happening, and i have to say that we're seeing positive change in general. but it's not always uniform, and it's not always one-way. and we can't even talk about statistically supporting all of this, because the fact is that we often work with transient statistics, and statistics that are not complete. now, we have on our table the latest statistics on the wage gap, which is from 2010, and it's not complete: there are two countries that are missing. so when we talk about these numbers, we need to know how inaccurate they are. one thing i want to say about this is that we're talking about inequality between men and women, but it's also a very diverse topic. very often, it's not about the difference between men and women, but about women who are taking on the role of mother. this is clearly shown in the case of the wage gap, and it is now a serious social problem, with a far-reaching impact beyond the monetary gap itself. i would like to say that very often we do not use the instruments that are in the european legal order, while sometimes we go to areas where the principle of subsidiarity must be applied. i would like to ask the commissioner whether she is not prepared to take a more in-depth look at equal opportunities institutions? because it seems like they're not really doing their jobs. thank you very much. (the opponent agrees to answer a question for a blue card under article 149 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
answer in double thank you very much, that's a very interesting question. i wanted to tell you about this, but i didn't have time to tell you that we don't really have any data on the crisis. our latest data, which was published in eurostat last week, is for 2010. so there's practically no european data on what happened last year. so even if we wanted to send a fresh message, it's practically impossible. and as for the trends, i also wanted to say that they're not one-way. it's very common, for example, in the case of the wage gap, that we see countries that are going backwards. so the evolution is not at all clear and one-way.
men and women must have equal rights and it is the duty of the legislator to create the conditions in which every woman and every man can achieve their full potential. it's one of the faces of freedom that democracy is all about. but quotas do not lead to equal rights. those who propose quotas in politics are actually restricting voters' rights. they tell the citizens that their opinion of who should represent them in parliament is secondary. this creates a democratic deficit that is not justified even by statistics. if we want to achieve true equality for women, let's not discriminate against motherhood and family care. let's start respecting women in their decision making and look for ways to ensure that they are truly free in that decision making.
in writing. gender equality is a right guaranteed by article 23 of the charter. yet, women earn on average considerably less than men for the same work. in the eu, women earn on average 17.1% less than men, and the pay gap ranges from 3.2 to 30.9%. in the private sector, women's wages are up to a quarter lower. the pay gap becomes visible after the woman returns from her first maternity leave. women's career breaks also cause differences in pension contributions. this increases the risk of poverty in older women. but again, i don't see why having children and raising children should be punished and why women should be economically dependent on men for it. the differences between men and women are not only in pay but also in employment rates. the current gap clearly shows the need to promote greater participation of women if the eu is to meet the europe 2020 target of a 75% employment rate. permanent participation in employment will enhance women's lifelong economic independence and enable them to have adequate pensions. i think it's high time to accelerate the pace of change towards full equality. personal and cultural stereotypes are harder to break, but i see no reason to delay institutional change.
for the efd group. i have studied with interest the proposal for a regulation on jurisdiction, applicable law, recognition and enforcement of decisions and authentic instruments in matters of succession and on the introduction of the european certificate of succession, submitted by the european commission. i understand that the increasing migration of union citizens may cause certain problems for survivors of a deceased person who has settled in another country. however, it seems unfortunate to me to link the determination of jurisdiction and the applicable law in succession proceedings to a kind of habitual residence of the testator or the deceased, which, as a key concept, is not properly defined or clearly defined in the regulation. such a broad and loosely worded concept can be interpreted differently by the courts in different countries and i therefore believe that it is necessary to choose more precise and better formulated definitions for such a sensitive regulation in the future.
i think we should agree with the basic decisions of the commission's proposal. the proposal will of course not affect existing laws in the member states, but will allow for the first time a new crossborder succession regime. this is of course an important step towards strengthening the internal market and i regret that some member states are still holding back progress on this issue. the proposal provides us with legal certainty, is relatively clear and simple and, in the most important issues it addresses, is understandable to the ordinary citizen. it prohibits the division of inheritance. since the starting point would be the place of habitual residence, the competent court could, as a rule, apply its own legislation. the new right to choose the legal order will strengthen the independence of citizens. its limitation to nationality this restriction preserves the function of the law of succession in the area of public policy and the protection of family members. circumvention and abuse of systems would be largely avoided where possible. a regulation cannot, of course, solve all the problems and adjust all the details, but it will significantly improve the current legal situation. citizens will have a clear and secure basis for the transmission of their legacy. they could exercise their rights more effectively in the internal market. legal clarity and certainty are central legal values in the field of succession law. a regulation would strengthen these legal values, bring benefits to the citizen and create significant european added value.
every citizen of the union has the right to enforce his rights in succession and to dispose of his property on his death. these rights are confirmed by the order of succession. in cross-border succession cases, heirs often encounter administrative and enforcement difficulties. the regulation will provide citizens with clear rules and legal instruments that will apply equally in all member states. the introduction of the european certificate of succession will make it possible to prove the status of heir more easily. the document will contain the same information in all official languages and in all the participating member states on the heir and his rights, and will facilitate the work of the authorities and the quick and cost-effective completion of the probate procedure. the issuing of official documents for procedures, such as extracts from the register, in minority languages should also be done in the future in a way that guarantees equal rights for all eu citizens. finally, we say goodbye to our colleague lechner, thank him and wish him all the best in life.
the constantly changing legislative environment in the european union places increasing demands on our judges, prosecutors and lawyers, who must be able to apply all legislative changes to their work in real time. it is therefore essential that those involved in the application of the law in the european union have the necessary possibilities for continuing further training. for capacity, organisational and financial reasons, i believe that it would be good to rely on the existing network of universities and specialist schools operating in the member states, which, once accredited, could also provide the necessary complementary courses on the new relationships between national, comparative and european law for judges and judicial staff, to organise such additional training. i am convinced that only this path will enable the commission to meet the target it has set for 2020.
i am very pleased to welcome commissioner vassiliou, who is responsible for education and youth, to our house, because i want to talk about youth unemployment. youth unemployment and its impact on employment in the european union is indeed a problem today, one that even commission president barroso has started to talk about and has allocated special funds to help combat youth unemployment. but i personally think we need to go much further, and that is to reform the education system throughout the european union and give more support to vocational training, which is something the commission is finally doing. it is also one of the views that prevails in the new opinions and new programmes that the commission is presenting for the next programming period. but there is one thing that i still miss a little bit, and that is the concept that we have not developed in the european union, and we should think about what we will need as a european union. not just talking about what skills, what jobs, but really having a debate about where the european union wants to go, and really creating collaboration between the people responsible for work, education and the economy in the european union and knowing what kinds of education, what kind of young people we're going to need for the future, to really fight unemployment for the future, and not just deal with the impacts of problems that we haven't dealt with in the past.
the issue of the effective functioning of cooperatives and the participation of employees in their management is of great importance in the context of the recovery of the european economy. cooperatives not only promote the interests of their members, but also intensify local development by creating infrastructure at the regional level. their great importance is felt above all in the field of social innovation and in ensuring supply, especially in rural areas and urban agglomerations. this is evidenced by the more than 160 000 cooperatives owned by more than a quarter of all europeans and employing some 2.4 million workers. from this point of view, it is a pity that only 17 so-called european cooperatives have been set up in europe. i believe this will get better.
in europe, there are 160 000 cooperatives, employing some 5.4 million workers. the financial crisis has shown that it cannot be solved only unilaterally from the point of view of the shareholders of these companies, but also the responsibility that the company has as a social organisation should be considered. indeed, the undertaking is not only liable to its shareholders, but also to its employees, creditors and society. legislation on cooperatives and employee participation is fundamentally different across the european union. the statutes of the european cooperative are so far the only legal form of the social economy at european level. cooperatives and other social economy enterprises are part of the european social model and the single market and deserve decisive recognition and support, as laid down in the various key european union documents. the revision of the directive should address in particular the specific needs of employees of cooperatives, including the possibility of being both an owner and an employee of the same undertaking. i believe that it would be appropriate for the commission to create an instrument to facilitate the ownership of cooperatives by employees and users. employee participation in enterprises should be a matter of course in all countries of the european union and, likewise, employee participation in cross-border forms of enterprises should be strengthened and not kept at the lowest level.
in april this year, a ministerial conference for the bologna process will be held in bucharest, which should set priorities for the next three years. if we remember that the main objective of the bologna process was to require that every student of a european university has the right to complete his studies in such a way that his qualification is recognised throughout the union, then we should first of all look at how many of our universities are able to provide their students with such a quality of education that their diploma is truly respected by any employer throughout the european union. the limited financial resources we have to support education, even in these difficult times, should then be directed mainly towards measures to stimulate the development of quality in those universities and schools which have the potential to achieve a high european level of quality education and to award european degrees which are recognised and valid throughout europe.
in 2008, the commission considered it important in its economic recovery plan to change and make the rules of the european globalisation adjustment fund more flexible as part of the response to the crisis. in this context, the council facilitated access to the fund's assets in 2009 to deal with the first wave of the crisis. solidarity and social justice were the guiding principles on which the council introduced the so-called derogation in 2009. in the light of these principles, while the crisis continues to rage it is incomprehensible why the council is reluctant to extend the derogation. seeing that only in the immediate vicinity of the border, companies with a great history, such as the airline malév, the komárno shipyard, or the closure of the komárno plant of nokia, which employed more than 1200 people on both sides of the border, went bankrupt. we do not see any reason why the council or the blocking minority should reject it. globalization and the crisis go together. we see that the crisis has accelerated globalization. and in their consequences, the two processes are practically identical in certain areas. it is unacceptable for anyone to try to blackmail by claiming that the extension of the derogation would jeopardise the future of the egf. i ask the members of the council to consider this answer, their efforts, not final, and their response not final.
equality between women and men is enshrined in the treaty on european union and is one of the fundamental principles of the european union. one of the most serious stereotypes and at the same time a demoralizing discrimination is the maintenance of unjustified differences in the remuneration of women and men for equal work and qualifications. these differences are in some cases even higher than 25%. in the interests of the consistent protection of children, whether before or after birth, i strongly oppose the misleading use of the term 'sexual and reproductive rights', which includes a kind of pseudonary for termination of pregnancy. i would like to remind you once again that only the right to life is explicitly recognised as a fundamental human right in european and international documents. and the european parliament's statements should be consistent with this human rights approach.
genuine equality between women and men cannot be the result of favouring women through quotas or other positive discrimination measures. motherhood, child rearing, and caring for family and loved ones contribute to the overall well-being of society at least as much as the value created by work in employment or in business. equality does not mean denying the exceptional nature of women mothers, but rather valuing motherhood and allowing women freedom in self-realization. however, this report failed to do so. instead of promoting motherhood, the report highlights the value of abortion. instead of promoting the family as the natural environment for childbirth and child rearing, the report emphasizes unions between people of a non-heterosexual orientation. it is an outdated view of women's rights, and that is why i could not support this report.
this report is entitled women in the political decision-making process quality and equality. i am deeply convinced - as are some of my colleagues who spoke - and i am glad that it is women who are talking about this, that it is actually insulting to them that we should be imposing in some artificial way whether they should have a say or whether they should sit in some very important position. yes, the joint declaration adopted at the 66th session of the un general assembly in new york recommends that women's political participation should be increased, because this is of positive significance for democracy, etc. of course, there are also many documents that encourage member states to work towards eliminating any discrimination. i can agree with that. but i am deeply convinced that the introduction of quotas in favour of women is not the right approach and that it is rather demeaning to women. it is wrong to impose quotas on women to give them more say when they can fight for that position in the normal competition of persons and ideas.
the quota advocates don't want women to have the freedom to choose. they want to decide for themselves. they say women have the same ambition as men. run a company, a political party, or a government. the kids and the family are a hindrance. to overcome it, the right to abortion and employment quotas must be introduced. but quotas don't solve discrimination, they make it worse. most women have the ambition to become mothers. they're discriminated against because they do a lot of work that nobody wants to see. from the employer's point of view, it is the woman's willingness to take care of her family and close ones that she deals with by not being hired, lower pay or career stagnation. the lower income is also negatively reflected in the pension of each mother. so from a woman's perspective, it's a triple injustice. this is the real problem with women today. i couldn't support the report.
developing a common european area for education is very important for building a knowledge-based economy in the european union. but quality must be built first. it is also good that the commission is preparing a ranking system that will give us more detailed information on the level of universities and their faculties. in slovakia, we have good experience in comparing the quality of higher education and research. the creation of an academic ranking agency has allowed not only the government, but first and foremost students, to have a trusted tool in their hands when deciding on their future studies. it would be good if this issue were to receive more attention in the future at the level of the european union as well.
in writing. − in december 2002, the council authorised the council presidency, with the assistance of the european commission, to open negotiations with norway and iceland on an agreement on mutual legal assistance. now, in line with the new legal framework resulting from the lisbon treaty, the european parliament's consent is required. the agreement itself aims to improve judicial cooperation between eu member states and norway and iceland by applying almost all the provisions contained in the 2000 convention on mutual legal assistance between member states and its protocol adopted in 2001. it includes, inter alia, provisions on the examination of witnesses, experts and accused persons by telephone or videoconference, on controlled deliveries, on secret investigations and joint investigation teams, and on requests for information on and monitoring of bank transactions, bank accounts, in order to combat crime in general and organised crime in particular. norway and iceland extend the rules on mutual legal assistance already in force and mostly applied in the member states. i am convinced that the agreement will help in the fight against crossborder crime and will strengthen cooperation with two countries that already belong to the schengen area, and with one of which, iceland, is currently in eu accession negotiations. i agree with parliament's approval of the agreement.
in writing. − the european union has set itself the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice. with a view to the progressive establishment of that area, it is necessary to adopt measures in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters having cross-border implications, to the extent necessary to enable the market to function properly. in the european area of justice, citizens must be able to organise their inheritance in advance. the rights of heirs and legatees, other persons related to the deceased, as well as the creditors of the deceased must be effectively guaranteed. the rapid, accessible and efficient disposal of international inheritances in the european union means that the heir, legatee, executor or administrator can easily prove his or her status in the member states in which the property is situated in an out-of-court manner. in order to facilitate the free movement of such proof within the eu, a single european certificate of succession should be established by the relevant regulation and an issuing authority should be designated. however, in my view, in order to respect the principle of subsidiarity, that certificate should not replace the national procedures of the member states, but should, on the contrary, clarify the link with those procedures.
in writing. − i welcome this proposal, as it represents an important step in order to ensure the proper functioning of the internal market, which is still limited by a number of eu member states’ rules governing cross-border successions. the aim of this regulation must be to make life easier for people, including heirs, to reduce costs and to ensure rules are clear and applicable throughout the union. therefore it is extremely important that the european parliament and the council are working towards finding a fair agreement that can be inclusive of all the different sensibilities and legal traditions in the union. regarding this point, i would like also to express the hope that member states with doubts will continue to be part of a dialogue based on the general principle of testamentary freedom and the willingness to reduce administrative burdens for families in europe, which will lead to greater legal certainty for people when writing their wills.
in writing. − the european union is an important player in the fight for gender equality and anti-discrimination. despite the best efforts, gender equality has not yet been achieved in the union. legislation may have changed, but traditional gender roles, gender stereotypes remain a major obstacle to fundamental change. economic independence of women and men is key to achieving gender equality. the current economic crisis threatens to set us back a few years, as it ultimately affects more women than men. for this reason, i believe that the effort to improve labour market participation and access to senior positions, say on company boards, must remain a high priority in the policy agenda. the gender gap is often dramatic in some countries outside europe. women have fewer rights or no rights at all. the union and the member states need to do much more to improve and remedy this situation. not only is sufficient funding needed, but i believe that a radical change in mentality and traditions is needed.
in writing. − i am very pleased with the outcome of today's vote on equality between women and men in the european union in 2011. we have achieved a more progressive equality agenda than ever before, including women's sexual and reproductive health and the rights and access to affordable, quality contraception and safe and legal abortion. equally successful has been the imposition of quotas for management and decision-making positions in companies and politics and the reduction of pay differentials for the same work. i am glad that we have a common goal, that women have the same status, rights and opportunities as men in today's society. it's a longer process, but together we can help.
in writing. − if you have at the level of the european union and its member states, there is an imbalance in the participation of women and men in political and public decision-making, and women are clearly under-represented in elected and nominated political positions. equal representation of women and men in political decision-making is a matter of human rights and social justice and a vital requirement for the functioning of a democratic society. the continued under-representation of women is a democratic deficit that undermines the legitimacy of decision-making at eu as well as national level. i consider it important and justified to create a favourable environment for women to participate in political life at all levels. at eu level, reconciling work, private and family life is recognised as an important priority in achieving gender equality, and women should be ensured the opportunity to participate in political life. it is important to advocate for women from different backgrounds in decision-making positions. promoting gender balance in external relations policy, combating the marginalisation of women in political life - i believe these should be aspects to be taken into account in the eu's external relations and complemented by appropriate financial and technical assistance.
in writing. − cooperatives are an important pillar of the european economy, a key driver of social innovation, helping to maintain infrastructure and local supply in particular in rural areas and urban agglomerations. as far as the attractiveness of the legal form is concerned, the financial and economic crisis has shown that it cannot be solved only unilaterally from the point of view of the shareholders, but that the responsibility of the company as a social organisation should also be considered. legislation on cooperatives and employee participation is fundamentally different across the eu. the statutes of a european cooperative (sce) are the only legal form of the social economy at european level. consequently, the sces are closely linked to the directive, which supplements the statutes of the european cooperative society with regard to employee participation in management. some member states have transposed the articles of the directive with relative success, others less so. i believe that it would be appropriate for the commission to create tools to facilitate the ownership of cooperatives by employees and users. employee participation in enterprises should be taken for granted in all union countries and, in the same way, employee participation in cross-border forms of enterprises should be strengthened so that it does not remain at the lowest level.
in writing. − the creation of an open european higher education area (ehea) is a significant achievement and represents a broad institutional framework for the ambitious process launched by the bologna process. intergovernmental cooperation and the strategies set by the european institutions have been the stimulus for a major structural reform of the european higher education system. the european universities have been thoroughly reviewed and reorganised, and their social role has been strengthened. it should be noted, however, that the link between this system and the labour market has not always been successful. therefore, strengthening the entire bologna process is essential. the first objective of the bologna process is still a basic requirement: every student enrolled in one of the european universities has the right to complete his or her studies in such a way that his or her qualification is recognised throughout the eu. the european institutions, together with the member states, play a decisive role in this respect, particularly in the recognition of qualifications and in mobility policy. however, at this stage, the ehea is not yet fully developed. i believe it is important to maximise its potential and address a number of open issues, including government regulation, budgetary constraints, quality control and national accreditation. consequently, the participants in the bologna process universities, students, teachers, trade unions, the business sector have a crucial responsibility to ensure that the process is truly anchored in the relevant academic entity.
in writing. − the bologna process has as its primary objective the creation of a compatible european higher education system and the removal of obstacles to studying abroad. the involvement of the university community in the development of the training system can contribute to its effectiveness. particular attention should be paid to the mutual recognition of diplomas, as problems have arisen in several member states. we need to ensure that eu-acquired university degrees are recognised and made valid on the labour market without discrimination. the right to education, at an affordable price, for all, must be created as an indispensable condition for the realization of this process. particular attention should be paid to vulnerable groups in order to provide them with fair and better employment opportunities. to improve the results and to resolve the unresolved issues, we need a common european action, and the union has the means to ensure that a more efficient system is established. as the report seeks to remedy the above problems, i voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i would like to congratulate the godfather of the bologna process, mr berlinguer, on this own-initiative report, which aims to bring attention back to the important issue of the mobility of young people for the purpose of education. it was important to summarise the shortcomings and problems encountered in the implementation of the bologna process that are slowing it down in order to achieve its objective as quickly as possible that the academic qualifications and education of students from any european university be recognised and valid throughout the european union, with a view to creating genuine european university citizenship and enhancing employability. education is a public responsibility of the member states, the eu institutions and other key actors, and therefore it is essential to continuously fund and improve the education of young people across europe, including in the context of their mobility. it is also necessary to create a kind of common core of curricula, to create uniform academic titles across europe and to recognise students' credits during their studies as part of their mobility within the eu. mobility should be for all and should be the basis for higher education reform. in this context, it is also necessary to develop a common european qualifications framework and then to implement it effectively at national level. i therefore continue to support this project and hope that this new report will contribute to improving the bologna process as quickly as possible and that we can count on the full support of all stakeholders.
in writing. − reliable and accurate statistics are important to enable effective economic and budgetary policies at both member state and union level. users of statistical data should be provided with relevant, timely and accurate data collected and compiled by national authorities in accordance with the principles of impartiality, objectivity and professional independence. statistics should be publicly available and understandable to politicians and citizens. the ongoing modernisation of the way european statistics are produced represents an important public investment and requires a sustained commitment at eu and member state level. the debt crisis in the euro area has highlighted the dangers of statistical inaccuracy and statistical fraud, which stem from shortcomings in the quality of public budgetary input data on the one hand and in the quality of the rules in place for statistical management on the other. i believe that the relationship between eurostat and the national control authorities of the member states should be strengthened and that the reform of the national statistical offices in the member states should be carried out in order to bring them into line with the new european legislation as soon as possible. precise data are the basis for obtaining detailed information on specific areas such as demography, economy and environment and therefore play a key role in the decision-making process in the field of regional development, in particular in the context of the implementation of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. only if common instruments such as automatic sanctions and the commission's right to bring an action in the excessive deficit procedure are politically integrated will the eu be able to respond adequately to the current economic and social crisis or prevent future crises. without joint programmes funded by eu funds and their operating funds, this will not be possible. many countries have shifted a greater financial burden onto future generations, and for many years public spending has far outstripped their incomes. financial markets will not be willing to refinance sovereign debt unless governments consolidate and address the mismatch between public revenue and expenditure. consolidation will also be tightly controlled by strengthened fiscal frameworks at the european level. the eu budget is one of the most important instruments for solidarity between member states. if union policies were to be financed by member states alone, their costs would increase sharply. the european budget represents a clear common saving. savings measures taken at national level should not lead to an equivalent reduction of funds at eu level. each euro issued at this level can generate savings in the member states. the annual budget of the european union with its leverage effect, the priorities set out in national budgets and all other european instruments must support the member states' recovery policies and be consistent with the europe 2020 strategy for growth and jobs.
the crop, grown on more than 8 million hectares of tropical land in 40 countries, is profitable for the countries that grow, process and consume it. this is primarily an industry on which 50 million people worldwide depend for their livelihood. i therefore consider it necessary to adopt a transparent legal framework that ensures much fairer conditions in the global chain from producers through intermediaries and exporters to final consumers. sustainable world cocoa trade must be based on the principles of economic viability at all stages of the chain, while respecting social and environmental standards. i am therefore convinced that fair cocoa prices and the fair returns associated with them, especially for producers, who are often small farmers in developing countries, will help to address the problem, as well as the issue of unfair child labour, which is exploited in this sector.
the resolution calls for coordination of procedures at both member state and european union level, but only indirectly mentions individual responsibility. we do not have a mandate to relieve citizens of this responsibility, but the degree of solidarity in public health insurance systems should reflect the choice of demonstrably harmful lifestyles. we also have to respect the decisions of the member states, because health is their responsibility. the financial possibilities of the member states differ, so that slovakia, for example, cannot afford to pay the same rate of financing for diabetes treatment as the countries of old europe. i therefore endorse the recommendations in the joint statement to strengthen the exchange of information and best practices. this is particularly true of type 2 diabetes.
the growing epidemic of diabetes is a serious problem for civilised society and the increase in its incidence in the union cannot really be ignored. more than 90% of the diseases are type 2 diabetes, where the loss of glucose utilization is caused by poor diet and lack of physical activity. the disease, which until recently was predominantly found in adults, is now spreading rapidly in the child population. as there is no cure for diabetes and the disease is increasingly taking its toll on the lives of patients, our actions must be geared towards effective prevention by changing harmful eating habits and increasing physical activity in the population. for example, by charging a special price for the consumption of products that are harmful to health, as in the case of tobacco or liqueur, we could contribute to a greater orientation of consumers towards healthy, natural food products. the funds raised could then be used to stimulate the community to participate regularly in light fitness sports. there are certainly more opportunities to create positive changes in current habits, but the commission must be able to work creatively with them and then put them into practice effectively.
diabetes is increasingly common in the member states of the european union, affecting the lives of some 32 million citizens, representing almost 10% of the european population. diabetes is also the cause of up to 325 000 deaths within the eu. type 2 diabetes results in a reduction in life expectancy of 5 to 10 years, and type 1 diabetes results in a reduction of life expectancy of up to about 20 years. by 2025, the number of people with diabetes will increase by about 16 percent. the average cost of treatment for each eu citizen with diabetes is between 10% and 18.5% of the total health expenditure in the country. and we also need coordination at european level, although healthcare is certainly a matter of national sovereignty and each country should have its own action plan. we should therefore also support the fight against obesity and promote healthy lifestyles.
in writing. in my country, slovakia, we are almost five years behind the eu average in terms of life expectancy for both men and women. i therefore welcome any health promotion initiative that can also be implemented in national health promotion programmes. we're also seeing an increase in the incidence and prevalence of diabetes in adults. it has almost doubled in the last 20 years and tends to grow every year. in the absence of a european strategy to tackle diabetes and of funding for research competitiveness, it remains for member states to complement national health promotion programmes with diabetes programmes aimed at promoting health, in particular by gradually building up a change in the attitudes of the population towards their own health. but to make sure that this is not just a matter of national programmes, the commission needs to develop a targeted eu strategy in all aspects of prevention, diagnosis, treatment and research to combat diabetes.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, first i would like to congratulate mr howitt on this good report. we agreed to reiterate in it our call on the council to open the accession negotiations without further delay. i fully support this call as i am convinced that, in order to trigger more developments, the country needs to work on a positive agenda and the negotiation with the eu is exactly that positive agenda. the more we prolong the gap between the candidate status and negotiations, the less credible the eu policy could become in the balkans. otherwise, i am afraid there will be some substituting agenda in some programmes as we see, for example, in the area of inter-ethnic relations in the country. therefore, i fully support commissioner füle’s initiative to leave the higher level accession dialogue focused on the most difficult areas in the future negotiations. the main areas where progress is still needed are freedom of the media, reform in judicial and public administration and the fight against corruption. they need to be addressed promptly. finally, macedonia has a realistic chance to move forward in the eu integration process, yet it is also our responsibility to make this happen.
we all, regardless of nationality and faction, support our macedonian friends in the reforms they are making. this parliament has repeatedly supported the negotiations with macedonia on its accession to the european union. i would therefore like to ask our greek colleagues to seize this historic opportunity and be the first to build bridges of understanding between the ancient greek culture and the young macedonian state. the protection of identity and the right to self-determination are among the fundamental european values. if we question them, we lose the anchor we need to get through the economic crisis. where one blocks all, there is no community, and where there is no community, it is difficult to expect solidarity.
i would like to support the initiative of the european commission which recommends that formal negotiations be opened with the former yugoslav republic of macedonia on its accession to the union. the country has implemented extensive reforms of the political system and the judiciary in the past period, and i believe that the finding by the monitoring bodies that the country is fulfilling all its obligations under the association agreements also confirms the legitimacy of the proposal to open negotiations. the decision of the european court of justice on the country name issue, as well as the agreement of the united nations to mediate between greece and the candidate country, give us hope that this specific problem of the country name can also be resolved in a civilised manner. i therefore think that it is necessary to open negotiations and to let the competent authorities mediate on the name of the country.
the european union's sensitive and constructive policy in the balkans is also bearing fruit in bosnia and herzegovina. the accession of croatia to the european union and the opening of accession negotiations with serbia are certainly stimulating political conditions in that country. the european union's intervention in this country should, i think, continue to be geared to stabilising local democratic conditions and calming or relieving ethnic tensions. the motivation of the european perspective for the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina, as well as for its political representatives, can be a significant stimulus for the implementation of the necessary reforms of the political system as well as of the public administration institutions. there is no need to have illusions that bosnia and herzegovina's path towards european political culture will be easy. but we must be patient and we should be able to appreciate any positive change that happens in this country.
mr president, most of us would like to see bosnia and herzegovina developing strong and effective institutions at state level. it is obvious that without a functioning state no country can cope with the demands of european integration. but there is a real risk here that we, the eu, can overshoot it. if we push too hard for central institutions our efforts might backfire. it will stoke precisely those centrifugal and nationalist dynamics that we want to prevent, because in the end, for any state to function, it requires democratic legitimacy and that cannot be imposed by outsiders. let me be clear: european integration can indeed transform the politics and economics of candidate countries as it has done in my country, but it cannot construct democratic legitimacy of states and their institutions. only its citizens and its political elites can. of course bosnia and herzegovina can only join the eu as a single state, but it needs to be a single state that its citizens and politicians from the three entities will agree upon amongst themselves.
mr president, i voted in favour of the resolution on bosnia and herzegovina. i hope that it will send a message for reflection to the politicians in the country and it will stimulate them to engage with the reforms which the country urgently needs. i would also like to stress in this connection that it is of upmost importance that the politicians in bosnia and herzegovina find the courage and political will to work together. culture of compromise and constructive dialogue is the key for the future progress of the country. major issues such as constitutional reform, reform of the judiciary and further economic and social reforms would not be possible without common effort. i believe that progress of the country in the future development and integration processes is in the interests of our security and stability of the region but most importantly in the interests of european citizens and the citizens of bosnia and herzegovina.
in writing. − the global financial crisis and economic downturn have seriously damaged economic growth and financial stability and caused a significant deterioration in financial and economic conditions in several member states. despite the measures already taken to offset the negative effects of the crisis, its impact on the real economy, the labour market and citizens is still largely explorable. the aim of the proposal is to provide increased support through the european fisheries fund to member states experiencing (or threatened with experiencing) serious difficulties, in particular in relation to economic growth and financial stability and the worsening of their deficit and debt. the proposal seeks to help member states in their efforts to overcome the financial crisis, and aims to provide the member states concerned with the necessary funds to support projects and to revive the economy. the current situation requires a rapid response to mitigate the negative impact not only on the fisheries sector as such but also on the economy as a whole, and therefore i believe that the proposed regulation should enter into force as soon as possible and apply retroactively to periods during which member states have received financial assistance from the union or from other euro area member states in order to address serious difficulties related to their financial stability.
in writing. − the hormone-containing beef dispute has adversely affected transatlantic trade relations in agricultural products for more than two decades. in 1988, the eu banned the import of beef and meat products treated with certain growth hormones in order to protect consumers and food safety. although the hormone-containing beef dispute concerned a relatively small volume of trade, it led to a reduction in trade and had significant consequences on both sides of the atlantic. close business partners got into a long-running business dispute. the continued application of retaliatory duties on some european products has hampered exports and eu producers have subsequently lost market share. however, through bilateral negotiations between the union, the us and canada, a pragmatic way to avoid the destructive dynamics of trade sanctions has been found over time. the negotiations resulted in the so-called memoranda of understanding, which envisage the gradual lifting of sanctions imposed by the us and canada on eu agricultural products in exchange for autonomous tariff quotas with zero duty for hormone-free high-quality beef. the memoranda of understanding and their application clearly create a win-win situation for the trading partners. i am convinced that the swift and smooth adoption of the proposed regulation will help to restore and strengthen mutual trust and to overcome the existing contradictions in transatlantic trade relations in this sector.
in writing. − if you have the proposed regulation of the european parliament and of the council amends certain regulations relating to the common commercial policy. as regards the procedures for adopting certain measures, 26 regulations in the field of the common commercial policy are to be adapted to the new primary law provisions enshrined in the treaty of lisbon. in particular, this concerns the alignment of those regulations with articles 290 and 291 tfeu and with regulation (eu) no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers, established by article 291 (3) tfeu. article 290 tfeu introduces the legal institute of delegated acts in european law for the first time. consequently, the legislator may delegate to the executive legislative acts which are not essential. the legislator shall retain the right to revoke such delegation at any time and to take the relevant decision itself. the legislator may also veto any decision taken by means of a delegated act. it shall be sufficient if the council or parliament objects to the proposed commission decision. on the other hand, article 291 tfeu governs the adoption of implementing acts. the implementing acts are intended to ensure that european law is transposed in the same way in all member states. most of the relevant regulations thus allow for measures to be adopted precisely to protect commercial policy.
in writing. − the european parliament, noting the commission's updated financial perspective for 2007-13 and the fiscal consolidation efforts undertaken by most member states in the wake of the financial and budgetary crisis, recalls that the budget of the european union is one of the most important instruments for solidarity between member states and between generations and that it provides clear added value in view of its extraordinary impact on the real economy and the daily lives of european citizens. if union policies were to be financed by member states alone, their costs would increase sharply. in this respect, the european budget, when used in a synergistic way, really represents a clear common saving for the good of all. however, i also believe that the austerity measures taken at national level should not lead to an equivalent reduction of funds at eu level, as each euro issued at this level can create savings in the 27 member states. all measures taken so far to combat the crisis should help to return to a growth trajectory. the tailor-made savings measures already taken must be accompanied by targeted investments that will result in sustainable economic development. i am convinced that the eu budget has a crucial role to play in this context as a tool to ensure rapid and well-coordinated action in all areas.
in writing. − the european parliament has decided to set up a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering with the following powers: to analyse and assess the extent of organised crime, corruption and money laundering and their impact on the union and its member states and to propose appropriate measures to enable the union to prevent and address these threats at international, european and national level; or to analyse and assess the implementation of union legislation on organised crime, corruption and money laundering and relevant policies at present, with a view to ensuring that union law and policy are evidence-based. the european parliament also decided that the powers of the european parliament's standing committees responsible for matters relating to the adoption, monitoring and implementation of union legislation in this field will not be changed and that the special committee may, in close cooperation with the relevant standing committees, make recommendations on measures or initiatives to be taken.
in writing. − the european parliament pointed out that the european judicial area must be built on a common european judicial culture in the ranks of practising lawyers, judges and prosecutors. this culture was not only based on eu law but also created through knowledge and understanding of national judicial systems, a complete reworking of university curricula, exchanges, study visits and joint learning, with the active support of the academy of european law, the european judicial training network and the european law institute. judicial training should be linked to a discussion on the traditional role of the judiciary and its modernisation. i believe that there is also a need to create a common judicial culture among members of the judiciary in order to promote the core values of the judicial professions through discussion and the establishment of a common professional ethic, the principles of the rule of law and the principles for the appointment and selection of judges, thus fostering the mutual trust necessary for the effective creation of a common judicial area. one of the other objectives should be to coordinate the training provided by existing schools in the field of judicial training and to promote dialogue and contacts between professionals. i also think that multilingual training is equally important, as the study has shown that only a relatively small number of judges speak foreign languages at a sufficiently good level to be able to participate actively in judicial training in other member states.
in writing. − if you have the international labour organization (ilo) estimates that more than 215 million children worldwide are working in activities that should be abolished. of these, 152 million are under 15 years of age and 115 million are engaged in hazardous activities. parliament must give its consent to the conclusion of the 2010 international cocoa agreement. however, the parties concerned have expressed serious concerns about the use of child labour in the cultivation and harvesting of cocoa beans. any use of the worst forms of child labour in the cultivation and harvesting of cocoa beans shall be unacceptable. in recent years, programmes and initiatives to tackle the worst forms of child labour on cocoa farms in west africa have made significant progress, but there is still a lot of work to be done, given the scale of the sector. i am deeply convinced that the use of child labour in cocoa plantations is strongly condemned. i consider it important that all stakeholders involved in the cultivation and processing of cocoa beans and their derived products governments, global industry, cocoa producers, labour organisations, ngos and consumers take responsibility for their obligations in combating all forms of forced child labour and trafficking in children, exchange experiences and cooperate in creating a sustainable supply chain for cocoa production without child labour.
in writing. − according to the international labour organisation, two forms of child labour should be distinguished. nothing should prevent children or adolescents from undertaking work which is not harmful to their health and development of their personality, nor does it interfere with their school duties. the problem is not who is working, but under what conditions. forced child labor on cocoa plantations in africa is as bad as modern day adult slavery in the factories that make cell phones and computers. and by buying chocolate without a certificate of origin, we are promoting inhuman treatment in the same way that we are promoting the purchase of electronics with made in china components. we are hurting people who have no choice but to hurt ourselves because in the unfair battle to reduce production costs europe cannot, and i hope will not, win.
in writing. − the international cocoa agreement 2010 will replace the existing agreement of 2001. the objectives of the new agreement are to promote international cooperation within the global cocoa economy, to provide an appropriate framework for discussion of all issues related to cocoa between governments and with the private sector, to contribute to the strengthening of member states' national cocoa economies, and to seek fair prices that lead to fair profits and returns for producers and consumers alike. the overall aim of the agreement is to bring more transparency and sustainability to an industry on which the livelihoods of 50 million people worldwide depend. its provisions will be administered and its implementation monitored by the international cocoa organisation. grown on more than eight million hectares of tropical land in 40 countries, cocoa is a crop that goes through a long supply chain from producers to traders, exporters, processors, chocolate makers and retailers to consumers. as the world's main importer and consumer of cocoa and the home of its largest processors and chocolate manufacturers, the eu bears a large share of the responsibility for making the sector more sustainable. i believe that the 2010 international cocoa agreement will have a positive impact on all actors involved in the cocoa economy. i therefore believe that parliament should give its consent to its conclusion.
in writing. − as the european parliament has a say in the negotiations on the new international cocoa agreement, thanks to the eu's status as the largest importer of cocoa and one of the main partners in the agreement, we must not allow minors to be involved in any way in the agricultural sector, including cocoa farming. it is a health hazardous work for children in a totally inappropriate environment and conditions instead of going to school. forced labour, slavery and human trafficking must not be tolerated under any circumstances. i therefore want to support and congratulate the rapporteur on this excellent initiative to make acceptance of an international agreement on the elimination of child labour in this sector conditional on its approval. it is also necessary to take a broader view of the problem and to look for ways to monitor the situation of child labour worldwide. i therefore call on the commission to take this initiative.
in writing. − diabetes is one of the most common non-communicable diseases, estimated to affect more than 32 million eu citizens, with another 32 million suffering from glucose intolerance, which is highly likely to develop into diabetes with clinical signs. the number of people affected by diabetes in europe is estimated to increase by 16,6% by 2030, mainly due to the obesity epidemic and the ageing of the european population. diabetes is currently incurable. complications associated with this disease can be prevented by promoting a healthy lifestyle and, above all, by early diagnosis, as often up to 50% of all people with diabetes are unaware of their disease. in this context, i believe it is justified for member states to develop, implement and monitor national diabetes programmes aimed at promoting health, reducing risk factors, predicting, preventing, early detecting and treating diabetes, targeting the general public and in particular high-risk groups. in order to meet the objectives related to non-communicable diseases, as well as to address public health, social and economic challenges, it is equally important that the eu and the member states continue to integrate prevention and control of risk factors into all relevant legislative and policy areas.
in writing. − the former yugoslav republic of macedonia continues to sufficiently fulfil the political criteria. the country continues to implement access reforms, although it is still facing major challenges. a new parliament was elected in early parliamentary elections and a coalition government was quickly formed. it is important to deepen political dialogue and to pay attention to parliament as a democratic body key to discussing and resolving problems arising from different political views. in terms of economic development, the country is achieving good economic performance and is making efforts to maintain macroeconomic stability. the potential for investment, trade and economic development remains a decisive reason to continue the country's eu accession process. cooperation with the union in the fight against organised crime and terrorism and the conclusion of an operational agreement between the country and europol to substantially facilitate the exchange of analytical data and improve the fight against organised crime and terrorism are also welcome. the new criminal code, which should improve investigative procedures in complex cases of organised crime and corruption, is also a positive development. on the other hand, i find it regrettable that the name dispute continues to block the country's path to the eu and thus the enlargement process itself.
in writing. - i welcome the positive developments in macedonia. despite some problem areas, the country is making good progress and is gradually meeting the political and economic criteria for accession to the european union. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the eu's new law on the protection of personal data. efficiency in public administration is still quite low, gaps in law enforcement hinder the proper functioning of the market economy. the conflict between greece and macedonia over the name of the country is also causing considerable problems, so i appeal to both sides to try to resolve it as soon as possible. i expect that commissioner füle's visit will help to improve developments in the priority areas and move forward.
in writing. − iceland fulfils the copenhagen criteria and accession negotiations were opened with it on 27 july 2010, following approval by the council. it cooperates closely with the eu as a member of the european economic area (eea), under the schengen agreements and the dublin ii regulation, and has already adopted a substantial part of the acquis. it contributes to european cohesion and solidarity through the eea financial mechanism and cooperates with the eu in peacekeeping and crisis management operations. the progress made by iceland in the accession process is welcome, as is the opening of eleven negotiating chapters and the provisional closure of eight of them during the accession negotiations. i believe it is important to create the conditions for the completion of the accession process with iceland and to ensure that its accession is a success. the fact that a large proportion of icelanders support the continuation of accession negotiations is also positive. the government supports the organisation of balanced discussions on the accession process, based on sufficient information, and the involvement of icelandic society in public debates on eu membership. the union can acquire a new member state with a long history and a strong democratic tradition and civic culture.
in writing. − iceland is a country with a long-standing functioning democracy and therefore fulfils all the political criteria for membership of the european union. in addition to a long tradition of representative democracy, the country has a very high level of judicial system and anti-corruption measures and measures that oblige ministers and many officials to use procedures to minimise conflicts of interest. many of these procedures and measures may be at a higher level than in some current member states. despite a functioning market economy, iceland has some trade disagreements with the european union. in particular, it concerns the protection of fisheries in iceland. many observers say that it is on fishing that a country's membership of the eu depends. it's not the whaling that's the problem, which is banned in the eu, but the overall nature of the country that's based on this sector. it is precisely the nature of the country that requires this extension to be properly addressed. i fully support iceland's accession and firmly believe that the obstacles in the area of the common fisheries policy (cfp) will be overcome.
in writing. − the european union supports a sovereign and united bosnia and herzegovina and one of its fundamental political objectives is to accelerate the country's progress towards eu membership. its elected representatives, who are directly accountable to the citizens, should be involved in the preparations, in particular, on the basis of a common approach to the country's pressing political, economic and social problems. bosnia and herzegovina has prospects of eu membership only as a single state and the attempt to weaken state institutions will deprive citizens of the benefits that would accrue to them from eu integration. the stalemate in the political and institutional situation has prevented the country from pursuing much-needed reforms aimed at closer eu integration, in particular in key areas such as state-building, public administration and the rule of law. constitutional reform remains the key reform needed to transform bosnia and herzegovina into an effective and fully functioning state. in a country with different levels of government, close coordination between the different actors and the necessary cooperation are necessary to improve the ability to act in a unified manner. no coordination mechanism can replace the political will that is needed. i am convinced that the future of bosnia and herzegovina lies in the eu and the prospect of membership is one of the most unifying factors among the people of this country.
mr president, many have argued that the eu should radically rethink its russian policy; that it cannot be business as usual after months of protests and vladimir putin’s return to the kremlin after the presidential elections. let me say that such a policy shift would be a strategic blunder. the eu should continue to do what it is doing, only do it better. our current approach, a strategic but critical engagement with russia, remains sound and it is working. i agree with mr fleckenstein that what is happening in russia today is a political awakening of the middle class. the ever louder demands for political reform in russia are a direct consequence of its economic prosperity and openness to the world but that prosperity and openness is in a large part due to the density and volume of the eu-russia interactions: investments, trade, tourism and all that. we need more of that, including visa-free travel in the future. i am not saying that we should not be critical of the russian government whenever it disregards human rights or fails to uphold the principles of the rule of law and democracy but in the end constructive engagement will do more to advance our values in russia than tough talk in rigid positions. therefore, i would say that recent events in russia and the presidential elections actually present a case for staying the course in terms of our policy. in that framework i support the resolution.
russia is the european union's most important neighbour, both economically and politically. the presidential elections in this country are an important civic decision on the character of the state, because the democratically elected president of this country concentrates in his hands the decisive political power. the election, which was won by vladimir putin, was met with a number of objections from the opposition, whose leaders received little public support. the doubts about the absolute purity of the electoral process were also confirmed by the independent osce observers. at the same time, they noted that none of vladimir putin's opponents had any real hope of success. therefore, i think it is appropriate to respect the fact that in russia at present there is no significant political force that would represent a real alternative to the current power for us, but especially for the citizens of russia. in a healthy society, there must be an open political dialogue in a free media environment, and this should be our main objective for russia as well, so that even the currently unsuccessful opposition can show its real political potential in the new free environment.
as a member of the delegation for central asia, i have visited kazakhstan several times and personally i think it is one of the most stable countries in the region and it is very important for us as the european union to have good contacts with it. the situation that occurred just last december in zhanaozen did not please me very much and as mentioned especially after kazakhstan's chairmanship in the organization for security and cooperation in europe is a bit of a sign of the deterioration of the human rights situation in this country. but i hope that also through cooperation with the european union, kazakhstan will realize that it is very important to have a clear investigation of the events that took place, and also to allow an international investigation of these events, since today we are discussing what happened only at the european parliament level, which is not very usual. i also think that kazakhstan should not punish citizens, for example, if they visit the european parliament, which is the case of mr kozlov. i hope that the cases of other people who are in prison and are accused of various peculiar acts that have taken place against this country will be investigated fairly and that will be in cooperation with us as well as with the european parliament.
mr søvndahl's speech reflected a certain concern about the political events that took place in kazakhstan in december last year. the fact that the european union cares about political developments in this country is due to the fact that kazakhstan is a major state in the central asian region with little development potential, which is open to economic and political cooperation with the union. however, the events of december 2011 should lead us to monitor political developments in the country in more detail, so that we can better articulate our positions in the talks on the forthcoming partnership and cooperation agreement. the demand for stronger commitments by kazakhstan, respect for human rights, religious and political freedoms, as well as structural and economic reforms, should therefore be an important part of the negotiations for a new agreement with the european union, and we should also consistently alert our kazakh friends to these commitments in the event of problems.
mr president, we all condemn the terrorist attacks conducted by the nigerian islamic sect, boko haram, on civilian – predominantly christian – targets. the two attacks in december and january left nigeria with over 200 dead and increasing tensions between the christian south and muslim north. such tensions inside a country prevent the implementation of much-needed structural reforms. they also halt the long-term efforts of the eu to achieve economic, financial, social and political developments, and they destabilise the whole region because of nigeria’s importance and status in it. solutions are not simple, and we have to realise that ethnic and religious conflicts are deeply rooted in nigeria’s history. the government must address the long-term causes of these religious tensions, such as under-development, poverty, unemployment, corruption, access to drinking water, etc. the eu is helping in all these issues, but we must exert more pressure on the government to enforce the rule of law and severely punish the perpetrators of these crimes. regional development and the strong rule of law will be able to prevent the radical groups from operating. it is the stability, security and development programmes that turn people away from radicalism, ethnic and religious hatred.
madam president, my meeting last week with the belarusian opposition was a good reminder of the harsh reality of life in belarus. people there deserve the same or at least similar treatment, freedoms and rights as we enjoy in the eu. instead, political prisoners, interrogations, persecutions and various kinds of repression are still the norm among citizens living in constant fear. lukashenko’s regime was condemned around the world, including by a unanimous us senate resolution, a european parliament resolution and, recently, a us law signed by mr obama in january called the belarus democracy and human rights act. the relocation of the 2014 ihf world championship is an integral part of all these legislative acts. ice hockey should not be a tool to promote repressive, undemocratic regimes. the ihf is responsible for protecting the reputation of the sport, and they should relocate elsewhere until there have been meaningful improvements in belarus. around one billion citizens clearly demand, through their representatives, such action from the ihf. i hope the delegates of the next ihf congress in helsinki will vote in a way which will fully satisfy the legitimate demands of the democratic world.
it must be mrs. the countries of the european union were the ones that were leading the way in industrialization and fossil fuel use at the time. so, of course, we have to do our part to fight carbon emissions. member states should complement their emissions trading systems with technology and innovation-based approaches to achieve the necessary reductions. today we have a surplus of allowances which has brought prices down so much that they have little effect on our industrial investment. in order to secure the future of our industry, we need to increase our investments substantially. today, talking about what europe's economy will look like in 2050 is not an easy task. if we want to be successful in this area, we have to align our energy efficiency ambitions and we should not shut down our nuclear reactors. we must not sacrifice the dynamic development and competitiveness of our industry on the altar of decarbonisation. this is the balance that the epp sought to ensure in the report.
for the efd group. water is of immense importance to our planet and its inhabitants. it's a necessary condition for the functioning of living organisms. we need it in homes, in factories, and in agriculture. the amount of water we have determines where we can live, grow and harvest our food. it makes up about two thirds of the human body, which cannot survive more than 12 days without it. leonardo da vinci, a genius thinker who was generations ahead of his time, spoke of its significance: "water was given the magical power to be the very essence of life on earth". however, the amount of water on earth is not unlimited. our demands for it are increasing with the increasing development of society. and since no new water is created on earth, but the same water is constantly being circulated in an eternal cycle, we must learn to manage it more rationally and protect its purity and quality. legislative pressure to protect water resources more strictly, to ensure that all people have access to the necessary drinking water and to regulate effectively the management of water in production sectors is therefore a legitimate and important measure to reduce the waste of this precious and vital liquid.
access to drinking water is a major problem in many countries of the world. on the other hand, we who have plenty of water at this time often use it irrationally, devalue it, waste it. poor water management in all contexts is certainly a major contributor to climate change. if we can regulate emissions, industrial production, or huge rivers, then we have to find a way to protect water and soil, to capture a raindrop where it falls. dense soil, uncontrolled growth of forest roads are the main cause of natural disasters in valleys every year, when precipitation falls cause significant damage to property and human lives. i am therefore convinced that the commission's future concept will include technical measures to ensure that rainwater, by reclaiming compacted soil, remains where it fell, gradually penetrates the soil, the roots of plants and naturally fills the sources of streams, rivers and wells.
i voted in favour of the motion, but i think it's insufficient. it describes the shortcomings and irregularities in the preparation and conduct of the elections. but i am convinced that this election was rigged. i grew up in communism, and i know what it means when turnout approaches 100%. such participation has been noted in several regions of russia. the european union will only be a strong global player if it does not allow itself to be blackmailed. we are dependent on russian gas and oil, but at the same time, russia is dependent on the billions we pay for these resources. i therefore assure mr putin that this parliament will be watching his next steps closely and that if he takes a crackdown on peaceful demonstrators, we are prepared to take concrete action, as in the case of belarus.
in writing. − if europe is to secure the future of its industry, the level of investment must increase very substantially. the energy sector in particular requires the highest possible level of clarity and certainty. the adoption of the roadmap for moving to a competitive low-carbon economy in 2050 presented by the commission as a basis for policy-making will help to achieve this objective. this will create a framework for new legislative acts and other measures that will shape investments. to combat global warming, co2 emissions must be reduced worldwide. the latest figures are not encouraging: emissions increased by 6% in 2010. co2 is accumulating in the atmosphere at an increasing rate. the eu currently accounts for only 11% of global co2 emissions, and our actions alone will not stop the warming process. investments in developing a low-carbon economy can be expected not to weaken europe's competitive position, but to strengthen it. i believe that europe should be convinced of the urgency of the problem, because otherwise we risk losing the race to keep our economy competitive. it is imperative that decisive action is taken if the eu is not to be left behind. the adoption of a roadmap and the setting of ambitious targets for the development of a low-carbon economy are also opportunities to stimulate progress.
in writing. − in early february, the dutch party for freedom (pvv) set up a meldpunt midden en oost europeanen hotline, calling on people to report complaints about 'large immigration of citizens from central or eastern europe', in particular poles, romanians and bulgarians. it is particularly interested in whether people have encountered problems of antisocial behaviour, or have lost their jobs at the expense of any of these citizens. however, article 21 tfeu enshrines the free movement of citizens within the european union and article 45 tfeu enshrines the free movement of workers within the european union. the european union is founded on the values of democracy and the rule of law and on the unconditional respect for fundamental rights and freedoms, as set out in the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the european convention on human rights. however, the pvv hotline openly incites discrimination against workers from the european union member states of central and eastern europe and creates a border between communities in dutch society. i am convinced that such conduct is reprehensible, since it violates the fundamental european values of human dignity, freedom, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights and risks destroying the very essence of the union, which is pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice, solidarity and freedom of movement. on this basis, it is the duty of the governments of all the member states of the union to guarantee the rights of free movement and non-discrimination.
in writing. − the eu, as a strategic partner and direct neighbour of russia, followed with particular interest the electoral process and public debate, as well as the large-scale and protracted protests in russia, concerning the state duma elections last december and the presidential elections to be held in early march. as regards respect for and protection of human rights and respect for commonly agreed principles of democracy, electoral rules and procedures, concerns remain about developments in the russian federation. however, the russian federation is a full member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) and is therefore obliged to uphold the principles of democracy and respect for human rights. i believe that it is necessary to be critical of russia, but at the same time it is appropriate to fully support the modernisation programme, which includes a dialogue on economic and political reforms. this is how reforms can be introduced and implemented to address existing shortcomings. criticism of irregularities in the preparation and organisation of these elections is justified, and at the same time efforts must be made to strengthen democratic rules for future elections. it is important that president medvedev ensure the adoption of the necessary reforms of the political system, and at the same time that the new russian president is prepared to continue these reforms.
in writing. − both the european union and kazakhstan could derive considerable benefits from deeper cooperation. the european parliament supports this objective and stresses that economic cooperation must go hand in hand with political cooperation and must be based on the political will to implement and promote common values. negotiations on a new enhanced eu-kazakhstan agreement, which is to replace the partnership and cooperation agreement currently in force, started in june 2011. in february of that year, the kazakh president signed several laws aimed at improving the legal basis for labour relations, workers' rights and social dialogue, and strengthening the independence of the judiciary. sound relations between the union and kazakhstan are essential, as is the strengthening of political and economic cooperation, including in strategic areas such as human rights, the environment, energy, trade and transport, as well as the fight against terrorism, organised crime and drug trafficking. i am convinced that the kazakh authorities, as well as the wider civil society, would have great justification and benefit from taking such measures as would help to restore stability and security and restore the country's international standing.
in writing. − freedom of religion, belief, conscience and thought are among the freedoms which are fundamental and universal values and constitute essential elements of democracy. the european union has repeatedly expressed its commitment to protecting freedom of religion, belief, conscience and thought and has stressed that governments have an obligation to guarantee these freedoms worldwide. i am deeply convinced that all forms of violence in nigeria are reprehensible and, in addition, that the threat of continuing ethnic, religious and political tension, which continues to cause suffering to thousands of people, is particularly worrying. it is imperative that the nigerian government find a way to end the violence as soon as possible and to guarantee the safety and protection of the nigerian population as well as respect for human rights. the president should also make the necessary efforts to promote dialogue between representatives of different religions and beliefs, and in this way also strengthen freedom of thought, conscience and religion. the country's leaders should strive to fight poverty and inequality and promote social, political and economic reforms in order to build a democratic, stable, secure and free state that respects human rights.
in writing. − the sixth world water forum, taking place in marseille from 12 to 17 march 2012, is a unique platform where water experts, policy makers and decision-makers from all regions of the world can meet, discuss and seek solutions for water. the european union must also promote water solutions to ensure further progress at global, national, regional and local levels, and set itself the goal of fighting poverty and climate change. with regard also to the commission's future vision for the protection of europe's water resources and the report on the application of eu water legislation, i believe that it is essential to address the challenges facing europe and the world in the 21st century, in particular developing countries, in order to protect water resources, ensure water quality and ensure its availability worldwide. water management has a direct impact on human health, energy production, agriculture and food security. i also believe that there is a case for concluding and implementing international agreements on the joint management of crossborder surface and groundwater resources, which would bring together the public and administrations to ensure sustainable management of water resources and which would act as a safeguard against local and international conflicts.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, this week, besides this case, i have some other news about trafficking in human beings: one case from sweden and one from china, where more than 24 000 victims were discovered last year. as cnn reported (as was mentioned), bodies of african refugees have been found in the sinai desert with organs missing. according to the testimony of victims and witnesses, corrupt egyptian doctors are directly involved in organ theft, coming to the sinai region with mobile hospital units, buying organs from bedouins and performing operations, mostly removing corneas, liver and kidneys. organs are taken from refugees while they are still alive; the organs are not useful if they are dead. they drug them first, remove their organs then leave them to die and dump them in deep dry wells along with hundreds of bodies. in a recent report the world health organisation called egypt a regional hub for the organ trade. there is no doubt that the driving force of trafficking is demand. where the legislation is missing and law enforcement is weak, trafficking is flourishing. i am convinced that the issue of human trafficking should be put higher on the agenda of bilateral negotiations.
the story of a group of eritreans kidnapped by traffickers from sudan and brought to the village of al-mahdiya near rafah last december is a shocking testimony to the moral devastation of a criminal community that profits from human misery and poverty. the sole witness to the murder, torture and rape 25-year-old eritrean solomon, who escaped from captivity by his captors, is a serious threat to a criminal gang trafficking in human beings and the human organs of his victims, and therefore every effort should be made to protect and secure him. the fact that the criminals whose testimony solomon is threatening have put a $50,000 bounty on his head is evidence not only that they make a good living trafficking people, but also that they are aware of the threat of testimony and the level of punishment they face if caught. commissioner, it is important for all of us - the european union, egypt, israel, but also the whole civilized world - to stop this atrocity in sinai as soon as possible and bring the perpetrators to justice. so we need to be more proactive on this.
for the efd group. the armed military raid on the palestinian educational television station al-quds by israeli defence forces units in late february of this year must be classified as a senseless and unnecessary act of hostility and violence by the israeli state power against the palestinian population. the additional argumentation that was supposed to justify this raid on the television studio and the theft of television equipment in front of the general public turned out to be false. before the raid on the tv studio, the israeli authorities never warned the palestinian authorities that the use of the frequencies to transmit the tv signal would cause them any technical problems. nor was the joint technical committee set up by the oslo accords informed. the european union supports the efforts of the palestinians to build civilian structures and institutions that help stabilise the political environment in the middle east. the european union is committed to the peace process and to the peace process in the gaza strip.
for the efd group. during the arab spring the previous year, bahrain's moderate islamic regime was rocked by a wave of civil unrest that left 35 people dead and hundreds imprisoned. at the request of the international community, the king of bahrain established an independent commission of inquiry which found, inter alia, that five people had been tortured while in detention in the crackdown and that disproportionate force had been used against peaceful demonstrators and political activists. many individuals have been tried and imprisoned in trials that did not comply with international standards and even with bahraini criminal law. in accordance with the recommendations of the committee, a special investigation unit was established to determine responsibility for the deaths of civilians, their torture and unlawful judicial proceedings. however, this effort needs to be continued. in parallel with the ongoing investigation, it is necessary to restore social consensus, improve the protection of human rights and pursue a constructive dialogue. i think it's our duty to remind the king of bahrain of this as well.
i appreciate the excellent work of rapporteur jelko kacin. the result is a report that objectively reflects the situation in serbia and its relations with the eu. serbia has been granted the status of candidate country deservedly. it now has the opportunity to realise its potential and become one of the 'front runners' of european integration. i want to encourage our serbian colleagues. after all, the status of candidate is only the beginning of a long and hard work. i am glad that the dialogue between serbia and kosovo is continuing. dialogue and agreements must contribute to improving relations and to the gradual elimination of anomalies between partners. the key is to implement agreements in good faith, respecting each other's partners in the dialogue and avoiding unnecessary tension. so serbia has a lot of work ahead of it. it will require strong pro-european-oriented politicians who can reform and move the country forward. serbia has the potential to successfully manage this process and has our full support in this.
in writing. the opening of accession negotiations with the european union was a historic moment for serbia. it was the first step in disengaging from the legacy of tito's communist regime. these negotiations, and above all the clear prospect of serbia's future eu membership, are key to achieving lasting stability in the war-torn balkans. the possibility of obtaining a european passport in the near future and free access to the single market for labour, goods and services also acts as a motivator for the serb minorities living in the surrounding republics. for serbs living outside serbia, too, this is a compelling argument in favour of constructively seeking a way of coexistence that is not based on conflict but rather on mutual accommodation and compromise. it would be naive to convince ourselves that the prospect of eu membership will eliminate all conflicts in the balkans once and for all. many of them have been going on for centuries, and they will take years, perhaps decades, to overcome. but i am convinced that the opening of accession negotiations has created the necessary space for this.
mr president, my thanks to the rapporteur for her work. kosovo is facing a year of challenges and opportunities. i appreciate and fully support the agenda prepared by the commission and the council for this year: moving on with the feasibility study, the visa liberalisation dialogue and the eu programmes constitutes concrete and ambitious steps which are urgently needed for kosovo now. the eu needs to invest in this agenda to be credible. we should also expect concrete and tangible results from the kosovo authorities, especially reforms in the judiciary and in public administration, but most importantly in strengthening the rule of law and in the fight against corruption and organised crime. i would also like to encourage kosovo to continue the dialogue with serbia in order to bring concrete results for kosovars and normalise relations between kosovo and serbia. i also believe that both the people’s representatives in the kosovo assembly and we in the european parliament should be regularly informed of this process and its results. finally, kosovo has lots of hard work ahead, but i am sure this will improve life in kosovo and bring it first closer to the eu and finally into the eu itself.
i respect the position of the european council, which in 2003 promised all the western balkan countries that they would be able to become members of the european union. but to fulfill this promise to the current administration of hashim thaci seems to me to be a mockery of the principles of humanity and justice on which we build the coexistence of peoples in the union. the report of the parliamentary assembly of the council of europe pointed to serious crimes committed by the drenica group, especially against the serb, but also the inconvenient albanian inhabitants of this province. the ongoing intimidation and murder of witnesses to these crimes demonstrates the inadequacy of the work of the european union rule of law mission in kosovo and its inability to document the crimes of the kosovo liberation army in a perfectly objective manner in a mafia-ridden environment. i am convinced that unless all the accusations made by the council of europe are thoroughly investigated, we have no right to legitimise by collective bargaining a regime led by people who are being investigated for serious crimes.
thanks and compliments to charles tannock for his leadership in the preparation of this report, but also for his unwavering support for the integration process in montenegro. credit goes to the shadow informants. montenegro has made tangible progress on the integration agenda. it is doing well in the process of social transformation and reform, and this also applies to the seven known priorities of the european commission. these processes need to be further supported. of course, many challenges remain, particularly in the areas of the rule of law, the fight against organised crime and corruption, cooperation between the state and civil society, and media freedom, but even here results are already being seen. these are long-term processes for which the european union has instruments during accession negotiations. montenegro is the champion of the western balkans on the way to the european union and is also a factor of regional stability. we should therefore continue to support it in this endeavour.
mr. president, i have to go. my dear officer. my fellow citizens! the experience of the crisis should leave no doubt about the need for a more transparent, stable, reliable, accountable and better governed union corporate sector. the experience of the series of failures of recent years has shown that good governance alone cannot prevent excessive risk-taking and that it is therefore necessary to establish flexible rules that respect independent control and different corporate cultures. corporate governance initiatives should be accompanied by corporate social responsibility initiatives. but the two are not to be confused, and we had a lot of debate about this during the report. despite the report's very complex management techniques and theoretical solutions, it is quite surprising that the anger is over quotas. and what is even more surprising to me is that the itre and imco committees have also focused on this in their opinions. i think that the question of diversity cannot be avoided when we talk about the boards of directors, but i think that it is not really a central question and that it should not be the fate of the report. i think that this is something that really needs to be looked at, but certainly the professional background, the professional training, needs to be considered, and it needs to be just as important as diversity.
in writing. half a year ago, we debated the 'free food' programme in parliament. the situation where the normal functioning of the programme was blocked by a group of states was unacceptable. the program is perhaps more important now than ever. food supplies are at an all-time low, the number of poor has increased because of the crisis, and i fear it will continue to rise, and food prices are also rising to dizzying heights. the programme should therefore be strengthened and its budget increased. after all, that is what the commission proposed. food is becoming more difficult to obtain from surplus stocks than it was at the beginning of the programme. now more and more of them have to be bought on the regular market, and that's understandably more expensive. i am glad that the debate on the viability of the programme has been resolved, also thanks to the european parliament. member states have been given assurances that the programme will be effective and that as much of the money will go to food purchases and as little to related expenditure such as distribution and administration. the example of slovakia also shows that the distribution of flour was not entirely problem-free, but this is not a reason to cancel the programme, only to make it more efficient. it is important that the programme continues to be legitimised and popularised, as its current form is valid for only two years. then it will be decided again. i would hate to see a repeat of last year's situation.
after the financial and economic crisis, there were high expectations that the european investment bank would be the one to support and ensure the continuity of many projects. however, in several areas these expectations have not been met and already last year, in the debate on the 2009 annual report, i pointed out that the crisis finance that was supposed to go to the smes in eastern europe in particular had improved the balance sheet of the private commercial banks in particular for quite a long time. we expected that in times of crisis, the priority for the european investment bank would be to help those areas that are most affected by the crisis. but if we look at the distribution of loans over the past year, we get a strange picture. while germany received 10% of the total, greece received only 1,6%. with the german savings and the trade surpluses and the greek problems, we expected the opposite. the same applies to central and eastern europe. the least affected countries get much more of the total pie, while the allocations for say bulgaria, lithuania, latvia, slovakia or romania are more in the tens of percent. i'd like to know the key to how you're allocating credit to each country.
the european investment bank may, by its choice of policy, technical and financial criteria for the selection of financial assistance, have a significant influence on the nature of the investment activities envisaged. its criteria for granting financial aid must therefore take account of certain visionary aspects of the expectation of change in a civilized society. support for technologies that do not meet better than average european environmental standards should therefore be significantly limited. i believe that the basis for qualified project appraisal in the future should be to place greater emphasis on the impact and participation of experts assessing the environmental and innovative parameters of the planned investments. this seems to me to be the only way, and the nature of the eib's assistance, to contribute to improving the innovation and greening of new investments both in europe and in the world.
in writing. the european investment bank is one of the european union's main instruments for pursuing its strategic objectives and plays a leading role in reviving the european economy and fostering growth. the total volume of loans granted, the european recovery recovery project, as well as the 30% increase in loans disbursed for the convergence objectives are key achievements not only for the bank itself, but above all for the recovery and recovery of the economy in europe. the bank's main activities support the europe 2020 strategy. the eib's efforts to provide greater support to smes, which are the driving force of the european economy, should be fully supported. the eib's activities are supported by funds raised on the capital markets. therefore, a aaa rating is essential for its functioning. the bank's capital needs were estimated at eur [0-5] billion in 2011 and eur [0-5] billion in 2012. therefore, measures are necessary to maintain the excellent credit rating. the eib should continue to support the europe 2020 strategy through the use of the structural funds and the further application of innovative financial instruments.
for the sake of brevity, i will address two shortcomings that i find fault with in the report. on the one hand, the report makes no mention of or addresses the issue of racism, despite the comments made by ngos. this is a fundamental mistake in my view, since racist speech is one of the major obstacles to the fulfilment of citizenship and civil rights in the european union and there is a marked increase in far-right extremism in the european union. another problematic area is the denial of the right to free movement of persons to ethnic minorities, which is a reality, mainly due to the existence of various barriers. there is no doubt that the free movement of ethnic or religious minorities is being impeded on a daily basis. this is particularly true of roma. the enforcement of the legal right of free movement must also take into account the right not to be discriminated against and must be applied in this sense, for example in the case of illegal deportations or other violations of this right. i believe that anti-discrimination must be at the heart of european union citizenship and we must ensure that it is adequately transposed into existing legislation.
the challenge to the exclusive competence of the member states in matters of family and marriage, under the pretext of discrimination, has already become the rule in this parliament. the report submitted is no different. in point 12, the rapporteur asks the commission to respond more specifically to petitions concerning the recognition of documents on marital status. he cites as an example a petition by the polish organization campaign against homophobia. but in this case, the commission's answer was very precise. i quote: 'the issue of certificates of civil status is the exclusive competence of the member states.' if we continue to question this authority, we will destroy the european project. we should take more initiative on the issues raised by ms jäätteenmäki in her contribution.
in writing. through the work of the committee on petitions, the ep is in direct contact with eu citizens who have approached the legislature about restrictions on their rights within the union. the latest eu citizenship report is important for legislative planning as it shows, through concrete examples, the areas where eu citizens still face difficulties in exercising their rights guaranteed by the treaties. in my meetings with citizens, i have often found that, although many economic, cultural and other opportunities are already open within the internal market, there are obstacles and unpleasant experiences that can deter citizens from exercising their right to freedom of movement. the petitions we receive are like a mirror for the institutions and contain accurate data that can help us take the next step in solving problems. it is not surprising to read that some member states still impede the exercise of social rights, the rights of those in higher education or the rights of the self-employed. citizens of the eu member states that joined in 2004 and later still face more difficulties in enjoying the rights guaranteed by the eu treaties as full eu citizens. the institutions are tasked with promoting the proper transposition of eu legislation in the member states and with speeding up the correction of recently discovered electoral, social, administrative, educational and other discriminatory measures.
i could not vote for the report submitted because it contains misleading information about one of the seats of parliament. since its creation, the european parliament has had a single seat, in strasbourg. and i fully support cutting costs during the austerity period. let's get rid of the expensive buildings in brussels and cancel the unnecessary mini-plenaries. and let's talk about whether the idea of a single mansion is compatible with the completion of the konrad adenauer complex in luxembourg. this has not been disputed by any of the representatives of one of the premises. the house of european history is also funded in parliament's budget for next year. if we do not want to trample on this history and rob it of its meaning, we must stop questioning strasbourg as the seat of the european parliament. the european union is not just about money.
in writing. − in october 2011, the european parliament was asked to give its consent to the council's proposal to adopt, on behalf of the european union, the amended statutes and the amended rules of procedure of the international rubber study group. the international rubber study group (irsg) is an intergovernmental organisation which has been based in singapore since 2008. the group is a platform for discussion among rubber producing and consuming countries on all aspects of the rubber supply chain. membership of the irsg is open to national governments. currently, the european union and nine countries are contributing members: the republic of cameroon, côte d'ivoire, india, japan, malaysia, nigeria, the russian federation, singapore and sri lanka. approximately 120 representatives of the industry are members through the panel of associate members. the group aims to collect and disseminate comprehensive statistical information on the global rubber industry. it is generally considered that this activity is of crucial importance in terms of increasing the transparency of rubber markets and market trends in this sector. i believe that it is appropriate to seek to take the necessary steps leading to the enlargement of the group's membership base, in particular through negotiations with the countries which are the largest producers and consumers of rubber. a strong membership base remains a fundamental prerequisite for the long-term viability and effectiveness of the irsg as an authoritative body.
in writing. − the aim of the report presented is to address the commission communication on the implementation of regulation (ec) no 261/2004 laying down common rules for a system of compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding in the event of cancellation or long delay of flights and the commission report on the implementation and results of regulation (ec) no 1107/2006 of 5 july 2006 on the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility when travelling by air. in ensuring access to passenger rights, it is important that passengers know their rights. information on passenger rights should therefore be communicated in a simple, appropriate and comprehensible manner during the main sections of the journey. effective, transparent and independent bodies to enforce compliance, deal with passenger complaints, help resolve disputes between passengers and air carriers and finally impose sanctions where necessary are essential. it is necessary to ensure consistency between the different legislation on air passenger rights in order to respond to the development of the travel market, which is moving towards an increasingly self-organised travel experience. as regards the rights of disabled persons and persons with reduced mobility in air transport, i believe that equal travel opportunities and non-discrimination guaranteeing equal access and barrier-free services should be ensured for these persons.
in writing. − the european union's engagement in the field of asylum is based on the need for solidarity between member states in addressing a challenge that, in an eu without internal borders, individual states cannot effectively address on their own. the creation of a joint eu resettlement programme will ensure that more eu member states participate in resettlement, while helping to demonstrate greater eu solidarity with third countries in receiving refugees. in view of the establishment of a common eu resettlement programme, which aims to increase the success of the eu's resettlement efforts to provide protection to refugees and to maximise the strategic impact of resettlement by better targeting those most in need of resettlement, common resettlement priorities should be formulated at eu level on a regular basis. it is therefore appropriate for the commission to decide on common annual eu priorities taking into account specific geographical regions, specific nationalities as well as specific categories of refugees to be resettled. in view of the resettlement needs, i consider it also necessary to provide persons (where resettlement is considered to be the most appropriate solution to their specific needs) with additional financial support in relation to specific geographical regions, specific nationalities, as well as specific categories of refugees to be resettled.
in writing. − if you have council regulation (ec) no 428/2009 of 5 may 2009 establishing a union regime for the control of exports, transfer, brokering and transit of dual-use items requires that dual-use items (including software and technology) are subject to effective control when exported from or transiting through the union or when supplied to a third country on the basis of brokering services provided by an intermediary resident or established in the union. in order to enable the member states and the european union to comply with their international obligations, annex i to regulation (ec) no 428/2009 establishes a common list of dual-use items and technologies referred to in article 3 of that regulation, which establishes internationally agreed controls on those items and technologies. technical progress in today's world brings with it the need to regularly update the list of controlled items. annex i to that regulation was last updated on 5 may 2009 on the occasion of the adoption of regulation (ec) no 428/2009. all international export control regimes have since taken decisions to amend and update their control lists. it is therefore necessary to make the necessary changes to ensure that the commitments undertaken by the eu member states under those schemes are fully applied throughout the union.
in writing. − if you have the ongoing financial crisis has brought otc derivatives to the forefront of regulatory attention. the looming collapse of bear sterns in march 2008, the collapse of lehman brothers on 15 september 2008 and the forced rescue of aig the following day highlighted the shortcomings in the functioning of the otc derivatives market. within that market, regulators paid particular attention to the role played by credit default swaps (cds) during the crisis. in its broader communication of 4 march 2009 stimulating economic recovery in europe , the commission committed itself to providing appropriate initiatives to increase transparency and address financial stability concerns, following the report on derivatives and other complex structured products. all subsequent steps are part of a wider international effort to increase the stability of the financial system in general and of the otc derivatives market in particular. given the global nature of the otc derivatives market, an internationally coordinated approach is crucial. it is therefore important that this proposal takes into account what is planned or has already been done in other jurisdictions in the regulation of otc derivatives in order to avoid the risk of regulatory arbitrage.
in writing. − following the entry into force of directive 2004/40/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 29 april 2004 on the minimum health and safety requirements regarding the exposure of workers to the risks arising from physical agents (electromagnetic fields), serious concerns were expressed by interested parties, in particular the medical community, regarding the impact of the implementation of that directive on the use of medical procedures based on medical imaging. they also expressed concern about the impact of the directive on certain industrial activities. the commission has examined the arguments put forward by interested parties and has decided to reconsider certain provisions of directive 2004/40/ec in the light of new scientific evidence. on 14 june 2011, the commission adopted a proposal for a new directive to replace the original directive. the new directive should ensure a high level of protection of the health and safety of workers and the continuity and development of medical and other industrial activities involving electromagnetic fields. given the very short time remaining until the transposition deadline of 30 april 2012, i believe that it is necessary to ensure that this directive is adopted by the european parliament and the council as a matter of urgency and that it enters into force without delay.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 2073/2004 of 16 november 2004 on administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties establishes a common system whereby member states assist each other and cooperate with the commission in order to ensure the correct application of excise legislation and, conversely, to combat evasion of excise duties and the resulting distortion in the internal market. the completion of the internal market continues to require a system of administrative cooperation in the field of excise duties. exchanges of information in excise matters are needed on a very large scale in order to establish a true picture of the excise matters of certain persons. for the purpose of proper coordination of information flows, it is necessary to maintain the provisions of regulation no 2073/2004 on a single point of contact in each member state. since more direct contacts between the authorities and officials may be necessary to ensure efficiency, the provisions on delegation and appointment of the relevant officials should also be maintained. for the purpose of effective monitoring of excise procedures in cross-border movements, it is also necessary to continue to provide for the possibility of simultaneous controls by member states and the presence of officials of one member state on the territory of another member state in the framework of administrative cooperation. furthermore, i believe that feedback is an appropriate means of ensuring continuous improvement in the quality of the information exchanged. a framework for providing feedback should therefore be established.
in writing. − the ceiling for heading 5 of the multiannual financial framework (mff) for the 2013 eu budget is eur 9 181 million in current prices. i believe that the aim of any budget negotiation should be to achieve maximum efficiency. in accordance with the agreement reached between the bureau and the committee on budgets at the conciliation meeting of 13 march 2012, the total amount of the draft estimates for 2013 is fixed at eur 1 759 391 671. at the same time, strict budgetary control, close cooperation with the committee on budgets and the identification of further possible savings during this budgetary procedure are needed. taking into account the increase in the activities of members on non-legislative work provided for in the rules of procedure, which commits significant resources of parliament and other eu institutions, it is necessary to analyse this fact and at the same time to present options to reduce this increased burden. i believe that further reorganisation of parliament's working methods should be considered, with significant savings being made by establishing a single seat. in accordance with the conditions laid down in the regulation on the financing of political parties, it is worrying that the principles on which the union is founded, namely the principles of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, are not fully respected. parliament should only provide funding to parties that strictly adhere to the eu's fundamental principles and the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. on 1 july 2011, spain submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in 513 enterprises classified in nace revision 2 division 41 ('building'), operating in the nuts ii region comunidad valenciana (es52), and supplemented it by additional information up to 25 november 2011. the application submitted complies with the requirements for establishing the financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, and the commission has therefore proposed to make available eur 1 642 030. since the country fulfils the conditions laid down, i am also of the opinion that the egf should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution at the request of spain.
in writing. − if you have in his letter of 4 march 2011, the president of the european parliament asked the committee on constitutional affairs to examine a possible amendment to the rules of procedure following the meeting of the conference of presidents on 17 february 2011. at this meeting, the conference of presidents recalled that, following the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, parliament had become the co-legislator of the european union and that, under the ordinary legislative and budgetary procedures, it had the same powers as the council. in view of this new institutional balance, the conference of presidents considers that there is no longer any need to maintain a question time for the council in its present form, i.e. at each plenary session, in the agenda for plenary sessions. on the contrary, according to the conference of presidents, it is necessary to maintain the possibility of holding a question time not only with the president of the commission but also with the vice-president of the commission/high representative of the union and the president of the eurogroup. to take account of the development of institutional relations in recent years, the revision of parliament's rules of procedure will have to be much more extensive than originally planned. however, as regards question time for the council, the abolition of its present form reflects a change in the institutional balance. however, it appears useful to maintain the possibility of asking questions to the council during a specific question time on matters relating to its powers outside the exercise of its legislative and budgetary functions.
in writing. − the adoption of the treaty of lisbon was a major success for the european parliament, which ensured its participation in the legislative process with the council. these newly acquired powers and responsibilities should be fully reflected in parliament's decisions, including by removing unnecessary obstacles stemming from the previous institutional set-up. that is why i really welcome mr lamassoure's report, which makes it easier for parliament to put questions to the council. i am convinced that this will simplify and make the work of the european parliament more efficient.
in writing. − on 23 january 2012, the council of the european union adopted a decision extending the criteria for applying sanctions to belarusian individuals and entities involved in serious human rights violations and repression or benefiting from the belarusian regime. however, many representatives of the belarusian democratic opposition and civil society activists including former presidential candidates and prominent human rights defenders continue to be imprisoned for political reasons. the european parliament continues to strongly condemn the deterioration of the human rights and fundamental freedoms situation in belarus, linked to the lack of deep democratic and economic reforms. he also called for the immediate and unconditional release and rehabilitation of all political prisoners in the country. i believe it is urgent that belarus takes steps to demonstrate its goodwill and allow the restoration of normal diplomatic relations between belarus and the eu and its member states. the union is committed to strengthening its engagement with belarusian civil society and to supporting the aspirations of the belarusian people for democracy. a gradual re-engagement of the eu in relations with belarus and the resumption of political dialogue with the minsk officials for the benefit of the citizens of belarus will be possible if belarus demonstrates its willingness to take steps towards the adoption of all international standards of democracy, human rights, civil liberties and the rule of law.
in writing. - i strongly condemn all forms of terrorism and violence committed against innocent victims. but every human life is worthy of protection from conception to natural death. i therefore strongly oppose the execution of two young people in belarus, vladislav kavalev and dmitry konovalov. they were sentenced to death for allegedly committing a bloody terrorist act on 11 april 2011 in the minsk metro. the international community had serious doubts about the course of the investigation and the subsequent judgment from the outset. even many of the injured and relatives of the victims of this attack are still not convinced that these two young people were the real perpetrators. tens of thousands of belarusians have signed a petition calling for the death penalty not to be carried out. i am glad that this parliament is clear on the situation with regard to the belarusian dictator lukashenko. the resolution adopted is another signal to all democratically minded people in belarus of the strong support of the european union.
in writing. − the european parliament has decided to set up a special committee on organised crime, corruption and money laundering with the following powers: to analyse and assess the extent of organised crime, corruption and money laundering and their impact on the union and its member states and to propose appropriate measures to enable the union to prevent and address these threats at international, european and national level; or to analyse and assess the implementation of union legislation on organised crime, corruption and money laundering and relevant policies at present, with a view to ensuring that union law and policy are evidence-based. the european parliament also decided that the powers of the european parliament's standing committees responsible for matters relating to the adoption, monitoring and implementation of union legislation in this field will not be changed and that the special committee may, in close cooperation with the relevant standing committees, make recommendations on measures or initiatives to be taken.
in writing. − the idea of a european foundation for democracy has been incorporated into a more general eu debate on the review of eu policies and activities promoting democracy following the events in the southern mediterranean. the intention is to create a semi-independent institution that could support democracy activists and the development of democracy in the world in a non-bureaucratic way and that would not be directly linked to eu diplomacy or the european commission. for the polish presidency of the council, the european foundation for democracy was one of the priorities and worked with all stakeholders to make progress on this idea. parliament should now be the institution that contributes constructively to the debate and also takes part in the creation, management and control structures of this possible european fund. i believe it is important to take into account that the european union needs a more flexible and less bureaucratic instrument to support political actors seeking democratic change in their countries. at the same time, it also seems justified to envisage the establishment of a european foundation for democracy as a non-profit-making, grant-giving organisation set up to strengthen democratic institutions worldwide, as the pursuit of democracy worldwide is not only a moral imperative but also clearly set out as a fundamental principle of the union's external action.
in writing. − mr president, in his report, mr lambsdorf proposes, among other things, that the european foundation for democracy should support projects in 'gender sensitive areas'. as examples, she cites the fight against violence and activities promoting equal rights for women and girls in the areas of justice, education and the labour market. i fully support supporting projects that are aimed at this, but i believe that the use of the term 'gender sensitive areas' is misleading and confusing in this context. we are talking about women and men, about europe wanting to promote equal civil rights for women and men. the european foundation for democracy must avoid the temptation to export leftist ideological constructs of the 'gender' type to third countries, as this jeopardises its impartiality and credibility in the eyes of the partner states.
in writing. − in its opinion of 12 october 2011 on serbia's application for membership, the commission recommended that the european council grant serbia candidate country status. a constructive approach to regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are key elements of the stabilisation and association process. i believe that if satisfactory action is taken to meet the key priorities outlined by the commission in its opinion and if the reform process continues, accession negotiations with serbia should be opened as soon as possible. serbia's significant progress towards meeting the copenhagen criteria is also welcome, with further progress in the european integration process dependent on continued progress in this area, and in particular on the guarantee of democracy, the functioning of democratic institutions, the rule of law, respect for human rights, the protection of minorities, the maintenance of good neighbourly relations and regional cooperation, including the peaceful resolution of bilateral issues, as well as the improvement of the functioning of the market economy. on the other hand, the situation in northern kosovo, especially in the second half of 2011, resulting in the violence resulting from the july incidents and subsequent attacks on the international forces of kfor, is of concern. such acts are reprehensible and the serbian government should make every effort to fulfil its commitment to do everything in its power to prevent them. only through continued political dialogue can a lasting de-escalation of tensions in the region be achieved.
in writing. − at the thessaloniki european council on 19 and 20 june 2003, all the western balkan states were given a pledge to become members of the european union, a pledge which was reiterated at the western balkans high-level meeting in sarajevo on 2 june 2010. regional cooperation and good neighbourly relations are of great importance in the process of european integration and also play an important role in ensuring security and stability in the region. kosovo's declaration of independence has been recognised by 85 countries, including 22 eu member states. it is important for the union to engage in dialogue with kosovo, and this commitment is also of great importance for maintaining stability and security in the eu's immediate neighbourhood. i believe that the eulex rule of law mission is of great importance, among other things, as tangible evidence of the commitment of the entire eu and its 27 member states to improving the rule of law in kosovo. the union should develop initiatives aimed at increasing the effectiveness and acceptance of this important mission throughout kosovo. in some areas, such as police and customs, significant progress has been made. however, there is a need to step up core activities in the areas of fighting corruption and organised crime as well as war crimes in order to bring more tangible results to the mission.
in writing. − accession negotiations with turkey started on 3 october 2005, after the council had approved the negotiating framework. turkey is committed to reform, good neighbourly relations and gradual rapprochement with the eu. this effort should be seen as an opportunity for it to modernise and strengthen and further improve its democratic institutions, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms. in its 2011 progress report, the commission concluded that turkey plays a key role in the security and prosperity of the union, that its contribution to the european union will only be effective in a number of important areas if a positive agenda and a credible approach to the negotiation process are ensured, and that it remains of paramount importance that turkey pursue reforms on policy criteria and make further substantial efforts to ensure fundamental rights. however, with a view to strengthening stability and promoting good neighbourly relations and a positive political and economic partnership, state actors must intensify their efforts to resolve outstanding bilateral issues with their direct neighbours, including unresolved legal obligations and disputes over land, sea and air borders, in accordance with the provisions of the un charter and international law.
in writing. − although turkey has been an associated country since 1963, accession negotiations did not begin until 2005. turkey is not only a candidate country for the european union, it is also a country that plays a very important regional role in relations with neighbouring countries. the close cooperation between turkey and the european union is a testament to the close relationship that has lasted for several decades. i therefore welcome the positive approach of the commission, which our group also shares. the accession negotiations are unfortunately not progressing as quickly as we would like. turkey still faces many problems and challenges, notably freedom of expression, the kurdish question and the cyprus issue. the eu has also been active in the fight against terrorism, and has been involved in the implementation of the un convention against torture and other cruel, inhuman or degrading treatment or punishment. i firmly believe that together we can achieve this.
in writing. − i supported the enlargement report on turkey because i consider it balanced as a whole. on the one hand, it recognises the significant progress that turkey has made, but it also highlights my continued reservations about its full membership of the eu. turkey is our major economic partner and its position as an ally in the middle east is crucial from the west's perspective. however, a number of reservations remain on the issues of legislative harmonisation and application of the same values, as well as on the cyprus issue. however, i would also like to assure my turkish friends that, although equality before the law is a fundamental condition of the rule of law, the requirement to establish a 'equality council' and to take unspecified measures against homophobia are not such conditions. the broad interpretation of the terms discrimination and homophobia has led to real discrimination against many decent citizens in the eu. i would hate for turkey to make that mistake again.
in writing. − the european council has mandated the council to assess montenegro's progress on the basis of a commission report. the political consensus on eu-related issues remains broad in the country. the cornerstone of its foreign policy is progress towards eu and nato membership. i am convinced that reform efforts require strong political will and an overall commitment to addressing the upcoming challenges in the accession process. montenegro has made significant progress in the implementation of the seven key priorities set by the commission in 2010, namely improving the quality of the work of the parliament and the electoral framework, professionalism of the public administration, independence of the judiciary, fighting corruption, fighting organised crime, ensuring media freedom and strengthening cooperation with civil society. the country has experienced a moderate economic recovery, with low inflation and a significant inflow of foreign direct investment, as well as a small decline in the unemployment rate, and has also implemented the trade provisions of the eu stabilisation and association agreement. however, further reform efforts are needed to effectively implement the government action plan on key priorities, to accelerate recovery from the economic crisis, while also ensuring appropriate control of public expenditure and external debt. montenegro must also maintain fiscal stability and strengthen and build the administrative and institutional capacity necessary to assume the future obligations of eu membership.
in writing. − the european union should start accession negotiations with serbia as soon as possible, thereby demonstrating its commitment to the country's eu prospects. it is essential that serbia continues to make progress in order to ensure the functioning of democracy and democratic institutions, the maintenance of the rule of law, respect for human rights and the protection of minorities as part of the european integration process. each candidate country must also have excellent relations with its neighbours, and serbia must therefore also deliver in future in its relations with kosovo, which means facing up to the country's independence. kosovo is now recognized as an independent state by 65 countries worldwide, including 22 of the 27 member states of the european union. we must reassure hesitant member states, namely cyprus, greece, romania, slovakia and spain, to put their concerns aside and join the majority in recognising kosovo's independence as soon as possible. in order to achieve the objectives set out above, i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. − the commission has recently reiterated its commitment to building a strong and successful single market that is people-centred and rebuilding trust. corporate governance and social responsibility are key elements in these efforts. corporate governance is traditionally defined as the system by which companies are managed and controlled and as the set of relationships between the company's management, its board of directors, shareholders and other stakeholders. according to the study available, the overall quality of the companies' statements concerning their corporate governance is unsatisfactory when deviating from the recommended corporate governance code. the study found that in more than 60% of cases where the company decided not to comply with the recommendation, it did not provide a sufficient explanation. the companies simply stated without any explanation that they deviated from the recommendation or provided only a general or limited explanation. however, in many member states, slow but gradual improvements can already be observed in this area. further progress could be made by introducing more detailed requirements on the information to be disclosed by companies deviating from the recommendations. the requirements should be clear and precise, as many of the current problems arise from a misunderstanding of the nature of the explanation required.
in writing. − the responsibility for the management of a company lies with those who own it the shareholders. it is our duty to create a legislative framework so that each shareholder can decide on his assets. we don't tell companies how many women to have on their boards. our job is to ensure that every citizen, woman or man, has equal civil, property and employment rights. if we start holding people accountable for their choices, we're taking away their freedom and their initiative. it'll be the end of business and a functioning economy. the eu cannot guarantee prosperity to people because it is born of risk. i lived in a country that, in an effort to eliminate market speculation and so-called undue profits, first abolished the stock exchange and then the business itself. this country is bankrupt.
in writing. − for more than 50 years, the european investment bank (eib) has been one of the eu's main instruments in promoting its strategic short- and long-term objectives. the bank's strong commitment to being a european bank and to playing a leading role in the recovery of the european economy and in supporting growth is encouraging. as regards the 2010 annual report, the bank has successfully completed its two-year anti-crisis activities and has started to return to pre-crisis lending levels. key achievements of the period include, for example, the completion of the eur 30 billion sme back-to-back loan scheme one year early, the completion of the eur 61 billion european recovery support package, a 30% increase in disbursed loans for the convergence objectives and a total lending of eur 72 billion. in 2010, the bank's board of directors adopted a new operational plan for the period 2011-2013 which identified three main aspects of the bank's activities, namely support for the europe 2020 strategy, combating climate change and supporting eu external policy objectives. i think it is also necessary to recognise that it is justified to measure results not only in terms of quantity but also in terms of quality. in this context, it is crucial to link inputs and outputs in order to assess the effectiveness of the system.
in writing. − the european investment bank contributes annually to promoting economic growth and development in the european union and beyond. supporting projects aimed at increasing employment, social inclusion and the development of disadvantaged regions brings funding where it is needed most. i therefore welcome the 2010 annual report of the european investment bank and encourage the eib to focus its operations on activities to overcome the consequences of the financial and economic crisis and to restore growth. the increased volume of loans for structural programmes is undoubtedly a step in the right direction. i believe that funding should not be limited to countries in serious financial difficulty, but should be made available more flexibly to convergence regions. in conclusion, i would like to express my belief that greater transparency as well as the disclosure of the final beneficiaries of loans will contribute to improving the allocation of available resources and raising awareness of eib projects.
in writing. − if you have the concept of citizenship of the european union, introduced by the maastricht treaty in 1992, added a new political dimension to the originally economic nature of european integration. anyone who has the nationality of an eu member state is now automatically a citizen of the european union. eu citizenship does not replace the nationality of a member state. instead, it grants all eu citizens additional rights, guaranteed by the eu treaties, that affect their daily lives. it serves to be a fundamental status of nationals of the member states enabling those who find themselves in the same situation to enjoy, within the scope of the treaty, equal legal treatment irrespective of their nationality. persons who use a european project to extend aspects of their lives beyond national borders through travel, study, work, marriage, retirement, purchase or inheritance of real estate, voting or online purchases in companies established in another member state must be able to enjoy the full benefits of the rights deriving from the treaties. however, a gap remains between the legislation in force and the reality of citizens' lives, especially in cross-border situations. the need for eu citizenship to be more effective in practice has been underlined on several occasions. i believe that it is right and important to work towards strengthening eu citizenship by revitalising the link between citizens and the union itself and giving effect to their rights.
in writing. − the european commission published in october 2010 a document entitled 'eu citizenship report 2010: removing obstacles to the exercise of eu citizens' rights'. the consultation of civil society has led to an overview of the main obstacles that eu citizens continue to encounter when exercising their rights abroad. i am pleased that the 2010 eu citizenship report is more thorough than previous reports and that it clearly identifies the most common obstacles that arise, together with some recommendations for overcoming them. on the other hand, i regret that as much as one quarter of the total number of petitions received from citizens concern problems related to free movement, which is one of the fundamental rights of eu citizens, and the concrete expression of european integration in everyday life. i therefore join the call for individual member states to step up their efforts in adopting concrete measures in the field of labour mobility, recognition of qualifications and at the same time improve access to social security entitlements and pension contributions.
madam president, congratulations to richard howitt for his hard work and excellent cooperation with the shadow rapporteurs, which produced the good report which we have in front of us. human rights have for a long time been at the centre of discussion in this chamber. we had an overall agreement that human rights and democracy needed to be placed at the core of the eu’s internal and external policies. it is appropriate therefore that a substantial part of the annual report was devoted to stressing the crucial link between the two. lessons learnt from the past show that the eu has a chance to make a difference in its external actions only with a consistent approach to democratisation and human rights protection. i am glad the eu has a consolidated position on the death penalty. i call on the high representative to use all available diplomatic and policy instruments to urge those countries that still use capital punishment, such as belarus, to abolish it or put a moratorium on its use.
i would also like to thank richard howitt for the excellent report he is presenting. i would perhaps like to emphasize that if we are talking today about human rights in the world and if we are also talking about the european union's policy in this area, then in addition to the most basic ones, all of which have already been mentioned here, we should also be talking about social rights in the context of human rights. of course, i personally see social rights as fundamental rights of citizens and i will do my best to ensure that they are also firmly rooted in the report on respect for fundamental rights, because i am the rapporteur, but i would also expect that we would emphasise that right now, in a time of economic and financial crisis, in a time when legal migrants are being criticised here, but also illegal migrants, who come to the european union very often for economic and social reasons, that we should also anchor the issue of protecting social rights not only in the report mentioned above, but also in all the policies that the european union has.
in writing. i appreciate the very well-crafted report of mr. richard howitt. at each plenary session of the ep, we discuss specific cases of human rights violations in the world. most human rights violations are linked to extreme poverty, and i therefore see the need to develop a set of principles on the application of human rights standards and criteria in the context of the fight against extreme poverty as indispensable. the annual report on human rights in the world presented by the european external action service is, in my view, similar to the rapporteur's description of the situation in general. the adoption of the treaty of lisbon and the creation of the european external action service have called for more concrete, longer-term measures and objectives to promote and respect human rights in the world, which could already have been set out in this report. the eu supports many development programmes in which it should set concrete, measurable and time-bound objectives for human rights and democracy.
syria is another arab country where armed conflict between the government and opposition political groups has flared up. the use of heavy weapons by the syrian army against government opponents has already claimed thousands of victims, mostly civilians. following repeated efforts by the united nations security council to halt combat operations, special envoy kofi annan succeeded in getting the warring parties, the syrian government, and opposition fighters to accept a six-point peace plan that would allow for a un-backed, bloodless resolution to the conflict. the fragile ceasefire that has been established in recent days allows the deployment of observers to monitor the observance of the ceasefire by the warring parties in the country's critical areas. however, i believe that the cessation of hostilities should be used immediately to launch a substantive dialogue on the political problems of the country under the auspices of the united nations. otherwise, a temporary cessation of hostilities will not bring the peace and quiet reform of the social order that we all surely desire.
today's discussion on burma is an opportunity to pay tribute to aung san suu kyi and the national league for democracy, but also to the people of burma who voted for the nld candidate in the april by-election. their victory is a positive signal that has shown the support of the population for the pro-democracy forces and given hope for further reforms. however, the fact remains that in burma, the military junta still has the dominant influence, and unless there is a fundamental change after the 2015 elections, the opposition will still be bound by the constitution guaranteeing the dominance of the military. many political prisoners remain in prison. the status of ethnic groups in the country is unsustainable. it will therefore be necessary to monitor whether and how further reforms follow. the question is also what about the eu sanctions. i think the people of burma deserve our support. the reforms that this country urgently needs are not possible with a dysfunctional economy. however, in view of the situation, the sanctions should only be lifted gradually. first, those that affect the poorest sections of the population. at the same time, the union must maintain pressure on the military junta and support reformist tendencies. aung san suu kyi has achieved more than a symbolic victory. but she has a long, arduous journey ahead of her in the further struggle for democracy in burma. we should not just symbolically support her in this fight.
the black sea ports are now one of the major economic gateways to the european union, handling flows of goods coming from or exported to eastern europe. i therefore think it is important to strengthen their capacity and to reconstruct the related transport infrastructure in a coordinated manner along the coast as well as inland. this is already the case for the danube, which forms the most important shipping route from the black sea to the interior of europe. i therefore consider it very important from an economic point of view to achieve a certain degree of coherence between the european conceptual documents, the black sea strategy and the danube strategy. the development of the danube is also reflected in the development of the danube delta and the entire western coast of the black sea. the synergy of the objectives defined in these two european strategy papers can lead to a more efficient use of resources for the development of the whole of europe.
under the eastern partnership programme, the european union has a long-term and focused engagement in the south caucasus region, where it finds responsive partners in both azerbaijan and armenia. progressive steps to strengthen democracy, efforts to improve the position of minorities in society, give hope that both these post-soviet countries have the necessary potential for a closer partnership with the european union. however, the azerbaijani region of nagorno-karabakh, which has been under armenian occupation for 20 years with all the consequences for more than one million azerbaijani refugees, as well as for the residents of nakhchivan region, who have lost direct contact with their country as a result of this occupation, remains a risk for the forecast of further developments. therefore, the negotiations on association agreements must be based on the minsk group documents with strong commitments by both countries to resolve the nagorno-karabakh issue in a cultivated peaceful manner, with an emphasis on the needs and interests of, in particular, its population.
mr president, in the association agreements with both armenia and azerbaijan we should base our partnership on common values. i want to underline that the core problem on the way to fully fledged development and stability in the south caucasus region is the ongoing conflict between armenia and azerbaijan concerning nagorno-karabakh. here the eu should take a more active role in the settlement of this issue, calling on armenia to act constructively. concerning the agreement with azerbaijan, i expect the earliest finalisation of the negotiation process and the start of the implementation phase. the field of mobility should be one of our four main priorities. moreover, we should work towards visa liberalisation once all the conditions are met. i also have to mention the strategic role of azerbaijan in its contribution to the energy security of europe.
this afternoon we've been focusing on human rights. i would like to emphasise two points in this connection. in april 2012, we're reviewing the world of human rights in 2010, and we're dealing with something that should no longer be relevant. i would understand if the human rights report was written by students without a salary. i do not understand why the council secretariat did not publish this report until september 2011, let alone why we are discussing it in plenary today. my second comment concerns belarus. lukashenko's regime has taken a turn for the worse in terms of human rights since 2010. that's why i want to call on the international ice hockey federation not to host this year's world championships in belarus. belarus plays good hockey and has the right to become the host country of the championship of this sport. but the dictator lukashenko must not use this as proof that the world has come to terms with his rule.
one of the basic conditions for the smooth functioning of the free movement of labour within the union was the establishment of rules for the mutual coordination of the social security systems of the member states. the administrative commission for the coordination of social security systems proposes to update the currently valid coordination rules based on regulation no 833 of 2004 and regulation no 987 of 2009 in order to take account of changes in social reality and legal changes in the rules in some member states. of the proposed changes, perhaps the most significant benefit for our citizens is the clarification of the application of the substantive activity condition under article 13 (1) of regulation 833/2004 which will apply in cases where citizens work in two or more member states and will also apply to citizens working for different employers. similarly, the addition of a new provision to this regulation ensuring the protection of the self-employed in the event of loss of employment represents a higher degree of protection against labour market turbulence. however, there is a risk that this provision may be abused and this will need to be monitored closely.
i want to commend very much the excellent work of dr cabrnoch, who has brought all the political factions together, and that is how it should be, on texts like this which help citizens to live in any country of the european union, to work there and to be socially secure. that is our job as members of the european parliament. this is something that we can actually present to our voters, to our citizens. i am very pleased that the questions have been clarified, which speak of migrant workers working in a neighbouring country but also in a completely different country, it may not be a cross-border contact, it may be a completely different position of a worker in a distant country. it also clarified how social security benefits would be paid to aircrew and pilots, specifying when the so-called base of their main home airport would be the place where social benefits would be paid. and this will also contribute to simplifying and making more transparent the way in which employers are expected to pay for their employees and how employees can enjoy these social benefits.
the proposals concerning the coordination of social security systems aim in particular to improve and modernise the acquis, and are also affected by changes in social reality. it is precisely to respond to these changes that improvements are proposed in the area of determining the applicable legislation and unemployment benefits. i would like to clarify that in the case of work in two or more member states, the condition of substantial activity also applies to persons working for different undertakings or employers. the diversity and evolution of the conditions under which professional activities are carried out require that account be taken of the situation of highly mobile workers in particular. i also consider it important to ensure that self-employed persons receive benefits in accordance with the legislation of the member state concerned and that they are given the best possible prospects of reintegration into the labour market when they return to their member state of residence. i am of the opinion that the regulation should be amended accordingly in view of the above.
my country is the largest car producer in the world per capita. however, a closer examination of the wage conditions of the employees showed us that the level of wages of employees in, for example, the bratislava plant represents only 50% of the wage paid by the car manufacturer for the same work in its factory in the parent country. i would like to ask whether this behaviour does not mean that some of the major european multinationals are abusing their dominant position to pursue a discriminatory wage policy towards those partner countries in the union where, because of the high unemployment, people are willing to accept work at low wages.
according to elementary economic rules, the level of wages should be a reflection of the productivity of labour. however, the productivity of labour in the bratislava plant is higher than in the parent plant in the parent country. i want to ask how long we will tolerate this kind of discrimination against the workforce in eastern europe according to elementary rules.
i find that the eu uses the human rights clauses in partnership agreements, but also in free trade agreements, very sparingly and not systematically. another worrying trend in the world, against which the european union must take clear action, is the violation of freedom of religion and belief, which is closely linked to the spread of intolerance, then violence against members of religious communities and minorities. we need not be afraid to say out loud that christians in the world are among the victims. and i would also like to point out the inconsistency of the european union's approach to the protection of human life, which is manifested, for example, in the eu's condemnation of cruel, inhuman and degrading treatment, including forced abortion and forced sterilization, while at the same time the eu financially supports programmes focused on so-called sexual and reproductive health, which also include the practice of abortion. sadly, these are the kinds of programmes that make up a large part of eu policy, and i could not support this report.
we're talking about an association agreement with azerbaijan. i think there is no doubt that this country, which has recently undergone major democratic changes, has finally become a member of the un security council for 2012-2013, in public administration it is moving towards transparency and the fight against corruption and, last but not least, europe's efforts for the eastern partnership, the good neighbourly partnership, places azerbaijan among good partners who can be beneficial for europe, for example, from the point of view of europe's energy self-sufficiency. we know that energy resources in azerbaijan are and reasonable cooperation with this democratically developing country is to continue. but there is still a delicate problem to be resolved in nagorno-karabakh, where azerbaijan and armenia have an unfinished and unresolved conflict, but i believe that this will be resolved.
in writing. − the administrative commission for the coordination of social security systems has made relevant proposals on the coordination of social security systems, aimed at improving and modernising the acquis. the agreed proposals were incorporated into the text of the proposed regulation. the coordination of social security systems may be affected by changes in social reality. in order to respond to these changes, changes are proposed in the area of determining the applicable legislation and unemployment benefits. the diversity and evolution of the conditions under which professional activities are carried out require that the situation of highly mobile workers be taken into account. the new labour supply structures can be observed, among others, in the air transport sector. the establishment of a link between the legislation applicable to aircrew members and the member state in which the registered office or place of business of the undertaking or employer employing them is situated is effective only if there is a sufficiently close link with the registered office or place of business. i also believe that it is necessary to ensure that selfemployed persons receive benefits in accordance with the legislation of the member state concerned and that, on returning to their member state of residence, they are given the best prospects of reintegration into its labour market. regulation (ec) no 883/2004 and regulation (ec) no 987/2009 should therefore be amended accordingly.
in writing. − the free movement of persons is certainly one of the greatest achievements of a common europe. this is also linked to more frequent labour migration. today, it is no exception if a person works in two or more member states for different companies and employers. for this reason, the coordination of the social systems of the member states needs to be changed and updated. i am aware that there will continue to be cases of both workers and unemployed whose complexity of the conditions they have encountered will not be covered by the legislation of the state in question. i supported the motion for a resolution because it responds to the diversity and evolution of the conditions under which professional activities are carried out and takes into account the situations of highly mobile workers.
in writing. − the free movement of persons is one of the fundamental pillars on which the idea of european integration is based. the possibility of working in any member state of the european union allows union citizens to respond more flexibly to changes in labour markets. it also gives people the opportunity to seek the best use of their education and skills regardless of borders. on the other hand, it creates a healthy pressure on employers in smaller member states by exposing them to wider competition. the issue of social security is also closely linked to work. if the single labour market is to function in europe, the social security systems of the individual member states need to be coordinated at european level. however, this harmonisation of systems must respond flexibly to changes in pension and social rules. the proposed amendment to the regulation on the coordination of social security systems is based mainly on the comments of the member states and i therefore supported it in good conscience. i understand the concerns of some of my colleagues about the abuse of social systems in their countries, but i am convinced that rejecting european harmonisation does not solve this problem. generous social support schemes are not sustainable in the long term.
in writing. the treaty of friendship and cooperation in southeast asia was signed in february 1976 by indonesia, malaysia, the philippines, singapore and thailand. since the date of the signature, many countries have also become signatories, including the united states, turkey, and canada. the treaty aims to promote peace, stability and cooperation in the region. to this end, it calls for the peaceful settlement of disputes, the preservation of peace, the prevention of conflict and the strengthening of security in south-east asia. the rules and principles laid down in the treaty correspond to the objectives of the european union as regards the common foreign and security policy. i believe that, as with the common pursuit of international peace and stability in the region, the treaty should also promote active cooperation in the economic, social, technical, scientific and administrative fields, accelerating economic growth in the region, expanding trade and improving economic infrastructure, so that all this pursuit leads to mutual benefit of the countries concerned.
in writing. − in june 2009, the heads of state or government at the european council adopted a decision to reassure irish citizens of their concerns regarding the provisions of the lisbon treaty on the right to life, family, education, taxation, security and defence. they also declared that the decision is legally binding and will enter into force on the date of entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. they also declared that, when concluding the future treaty of accession and in accordance with their constitutional requirements, they would set out the provisions of the decision in a protocol annexed to the treaty on european union and to the treaty on the functioning of the european union. and since the heads of state or government agreed in substance on the provisions proposed in the draft protocol at the june european council, the matter was politically settled and there was no need to convene a convention. i agree with the proposal of the parliament not to convene the convention.
in writing. − if you have in 2008, the irish government decided to hold a referendum on ratification of the treaty of lisbon. however, due to the negative results of the june 2008 referendum, ireland could not ratify the lisbon treaty. on the basis of the unanimity requirement for the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the irish government was expected to find a solution to the situation arising from the decision to hold the referendum and its subsequent negative outcome. the heads of state or government, at the european council meeting on 19 june 2009, agreed to adopt a decision to provide irish citizens with the necessary legal guarantees to respond to their concerns regarding the provisions of the treaty of lisbon on the right to life, family, education, taxation, security and defence. they agreed to incorporate the provisions of this decision, when concluding the future treaty of accession and in accordance with their respective constitutional requirements, in the protocol annexed to the treaty on european union and to the treaty on the functioning of the european union, as a clarification of the provisions of the treaty of lisbon in the light of the concerns of the irish. although the content of the draft protocol relates only to the situation in ireland, i believe it is appropriate to examine the proposed amendments to the treaties. it is equally important to respect the previous political understanding between governments.
in writing. − when we talk about the future of cohesion policy in the outermost regions, it is necessary and appropriate to analyse how these european regions will be able to achieve the objectives of smart, sustainable and inclusive growth set out in the eu 2020 strategy, given their characteristics and the persistent constraints resulting in particular from their remoteness. these specificities justify specific measures by the european union. the 1999 cayenne principles are the basis for union action in favour of the outermost regions and, in accordance with these principles - the principle of equal opportunities, the principle of value for potential, the principle of cohesion and the principle of partnership - the european approach must ensure that the potential of the outermost regions is transformed into a real factor of economic growth. i am in favour of a differentiated and uniform approach to the outermost regions by the eu. this differentiation implies not only the need to pay particular attention to compensating for the consequences of their remoteness, but also the incorporation of a tailor-made strategy that envisages a development model that will be able to exploit their advantages in the interests of greater competitiveness, growth and job creation. last but not least, i believe it is important to adapt the implementation of european policies in these regions, because only through this specific eu policy framework will these regions be able to better meet the objectives of economic, social and territorial cohesion and contribute to the objectives of the eu 2020 strategy.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the resolution on cohesion policy in the outermost regions because any financial support under cohesion policy is about solidarity, helping where it is needed most. but on the other hand, i want to ask why only the most remote islands should have special benefits. my country also forms part of the schengen border and my region is located directly on it, which gives it a peripheral status that would also deserve special attention. the crisis has also hit my region, which has one of the highest unemployment rates in slovakia. two thirds of my region is spread over the fertile land of the east slovak lowlands, but agricultural production is not competitive with the eu's agricultural policy towards the eastern countries. i do not know whether this is cohesion policy when the eastern countries are to be in suspension until 2028, when we have all the conditions for agricultural primary and secondary production. i am therefore drawing attention to the eu's subsidy policy, especially when our country was self-sufficient in food production and today it is only at 48%.
in writing. − the treaties commit the union to conduct its external action in accordance with the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the principle of respect for human dignity and the rights of minorities, the principles of equality and solidarity, and the principles of the united nations charter and international law. i believe it is important to learn from the european union's past failures to transform its external action. to be a credible actor in external relations, the eu must act coherently, in line with its obligations under the treaty and the acquis, and avoid applying a 'double standard' to its human rights, internal and external policies and relations with third countries. it is necessary to take appropriate measures to ensure that civil rights and fundamental freedoms are not weakened or reduced in times of economic crisis. union policies should be consistent, exemplary and also consistent with fundamental values and principles. this would maximise the credibility of the european union in the world and the effectiveness of human rights policies. it is important to work towards a more effective integration of human rights and democracy in development cooperation, while at the same time meeting international commitments in this area. it is democracy, the rule of law, justice and accountability that are the best guarantors of human rights, fundamental freedoms, tolerance and equality.
in writing. − azerbaijan plays an important role in the context of the european union's eastern partnership and has also experienced remarkable economic growth in recent years. parliamentary cooperation within the european eastern partnership and bilateral cooperation are key elements in advancing the eu-azerbaijan comprehensive political cooperation. it plays a positive role in the european neighbourhood policy and contributes, inter alia, to addressing the eu's energy security challenges. in this context, the association agreements provide an appropriate framework for deepening relations by strengthening political grouping, economic integration and legal rapprochement with the eu and developing cultural links, thus having a significant impact on the democratisation process. the active commitment of azerbaijan to promoting common values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, is the basis for making progress in this process and for making the negotiations and subsequent implementation of the association agreement meaningful. the association agreement should bring tangible benefits and opportunities to the people of azerbaijan and the european union. however, i also believe that it is necessary and justified to establish clear criteria for the implementation of this agreement and to provide for monitoring mechanisms, including the submission of regular reports to the european parliament.
in writing. - my colleagues. relations between the european union and azerbaijan have been defined by the partnership and cooperation agreement since 1999. the eu enlargement also launched the european neighbourhood policy, which also included azerbaijan. the european union and azerbaijan are currently in the process of negotiating an association agreement, which should succeed the partnership and cooperation agreement. the possible signing of an association agreement would significantly deepen relations with the european union. azerbaijan is also one of the first members of the eastern partnership. despite close cooperation between the european union and azerbaijan, the country faces many challenges and problems. these are human rights, freedom of expression and rule of law issues. it also faces problems in the nagorno-karabakh region, which has been marked by years of conflict and war. i am convinced that these conflicts can be overcome, and i support the conclusions of the rapporteur, ms jäätteenmäki.
in writing. − association agreements provide a framework for deepening relations by strengthening political grouping, socioeconomic integration and legal rapprochement with the eu and developing cultural relations. armenia's active commitment to promoting common values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, is the basis for progress in this process and the subsequent implementation of the association agreement. the armenian authorities have repeatedly expressed their willingness to respect these values. however, the commitments have not always been in line with reality, especially as regards the progress of reforms. however, the negotiations on the agreement are progressing well and are stimulating internal reform. in my view, it is important to ensure that the association agreement is a comprehensive and progressive framework for the future development of relations with armenia, which will strengthen political association, economic convergence and approximation of laws. it is important to incorporate a strong parliamentary dimension in the agreement, ensuring that the national assembly of armenia and the european parliament are fully involved in its implementation and monitoring. it is also necessary to provide technical and financial assistance to the armenian parliament to enable it to fully develop its constitutional functions, bodies and services, including the establishment of full standing committees and better interaction with civil society. i also believe that it is equally important to provide monitoring mechanisms, including the submission of regular reports to the european parliament.
in writing. − the eu's strategic interest, stability and democratic development of the region, as well as armenia's active commitment to strictly adhere to the rules in promoting common values, can be a good starting point for the implementation of the association agreement. the armenian authorities have repeatedly expressed their willingness to respect these values and confirm armenia's european ambitions. however, nagorno-karabakh is very much a part of these efforts, and i expect this agreement to bring a significant step forward for both sides in resolving this conflict. i voted in favour of the agreement because i expect that the more than 20 years of suffering of the people of nagorno-karabakh will soon be over and the displaced and refugees will be able to return to their homes and be able to use their property and start living in conditions of freedom and peace.
the proposal for a uniform set of rules for determining the taxable amount for entrepreneurs undoubtedly contains a number of positive aspects. the proposed rules will increase the competitiveness of the european union, stimulate economic growth and create jobs as well. at the same time, the union would also become more attractive to other foreign entrepreneurs. i would also like to stress that tackling the problem of tax havens must also be an important or positive aspect. in the current economic crisis and its severe impact, especially on the most vulnerable groups of the population, we cannot allow european multinational corporations to shift their profits to countries with a minimum tax burden, and the leakage of such financial resources will further weaken our national budgets significantly. consistent taxation will greatly help member states' weakened economies and can also have a very positive impact on their social policies. however, tax harmonisation will only be effective once the ccctb enters into force in all member states of the european union.
in writing. the proposal aims to create a common system for calculating the tax base for businesses operating in the eu, significantly reducing the administrative burden, compliance costs and legal uncertainty that businesses in the eu currently face. companies must comply with 27 different national systems when determining their taxable profits. the proposed common consolidated corporate income tax base means that businesses could benefit from a 'one-stop shop' system when filing their tax returns and could consolidate all their profits and losses across the eu. member states would retain their full competence in determining corporate tax rates. this system will save businesses across the eu hundreds of millions of euros in compliance costs each year. in addition, businesses with ambitions to expand beyond their borders will benefit from savings of up to eur 1 billion. the scheme will help create new jobs, help fight tax evasion, boost the eu's global competitiveness and increase the eu's attractiveness on the market for foreign investors.
the current draft directive is certainly important and necessary. building a low-carbon and energy-efficient economy is of utmost importance. however, compliance with the so-called proportionality between the various minimum thresholds set at european union level would, for example, lead to a substantial increase in diesel prices in many member states. moreover, in slovakia, my country, a decline in the diesel engine segment would lead to the loss of hundreds and perhaps thousands of jobs. proportionality would also have a negative impact on retail prices, and this is something we really cannot afford to do in this time of economic crisis. in policy-making, we must think in particular of burdening the citizens of the european union as little as possible with increased levies and charges that are not absolutely necessary. so let us concentrate on the big energy companies, commissioner, which are making huge profits every year, and not burden consumers with increased levies and charges.
i understand the european commission's efforts to help the new mechanisms by sharing the risk of implementing infrastructure and productive investment projects in countries that are experiencing serious problems with their financial stability. the recital states that many investments in which the private sector is cautiously no longer willing to participate could gain a chance of being realised by the european commission taking over the risk and redistributing it across the european union. the proposals are formulated as an exception to the cohesion policy, which is allegedly justified by the current situation in indebted countries. in his opening remarks, mr šemeta also acknowledged that the proposal to be submitted circumvents the european rules on the granting of state aid to some extent. i confess to having some doubts about the fairness and correctness of this regulation. if the private sector assesses an investment project as meaningful with the necessary return, it is able to find adequate financial resources for its implementation. so i'm not sure it's prudent and wise to burden the european union with guarantees for investments that the private sector no longer trusts.
the determination of both the european union and the member states to make the fight against international terrorism and organised transnational crime more effective must be translated into concrete measures that are strictly in line with fundamental human rights and freedoms. new challenges cannot become an excuse for using disproportionate means to infringe the fundamental rights and freedoms of eu citizens. the provision of passenger name records is one such intervention and therefore requires respect for principles on the one hand and necessity and proportionality on the other. the process of obtaining, collecting, processing and storing data must follow precise rules laid down in advance. the whole process must be subject to independent oversight so that the principles required are not merely recommendations. many uncertainties remain, which is why i am concerned that the current agreement does not provide sufficiently clearly defined guarantees for eu citizens.
it's been said here today, colleagues, colleagues, almost everything, and i would very much hate for our discussion today to be seen as some kind of expression of pro-american or anti-american sentiments on the part of individual members of this house. the truth is that the commissioner has taken a lot of steps to get those original proposals, which we finally rejected here in may 2010, i think, into the convention. but the truth remains that if the united states of america wants to have a good partnership in the fight against international crime, in the fight against terrorism with the european union, then it would be appropriate for our positions to be more balanced and more balanced. i have no doubt, commissioner, that you have done everything possible to secure a good position for the citizens of the member states of the union, but unfortunately you have only achieved what the united states of america has allowed you to do. and that is why there are still many weaknesses in this convention that i simply cannot vote to sign.
in 2007, the european union concluded an agreement with the united states of america on the use of passenger name record (pnr) to legitimize and formally regulate the handling of personal data of citizens of the european union by the united states department of homeland security. in may 2010, we refused to give our consent to the application of this agreement because its wording did not take into account european standards governing the handling of our citizens' personal data. the new text of the agreement under negotiation today strengthens several provisions on the protection of personal data and strengthens the safeguards for the lawful handling of data. however, the new version of the agreement also contained a number of shortcomings, for which we rejected the agreement in may 2010. the text proposed must therefore be seen as an attempt at compromise. the question remains, however, whether we have the right and the mandate to deprive our citizens of their rights and civil liberties in such a dubious way. i think not, commissioner.
on behalf of the ppe group. madam president, madam commissioner, mr minister, i would like to thank you for your kind words. i am grateful for this opportunity to exchange views on the application and transposition of the directive. in the last few weeks, we've been talking to a number of civil society organizations about what we're going to do, and one of the participants said, "this policy, this is a damn good policy". i apologize for the language, but i wanted to quote you accurately. now, that doesn't mean that we can sit back because we've done everything right, but the work is practically in front of us. and although this is indeed a good directive, and thanks to the good cooperation of the commission and the council it has been possible to achieve this, there are shortcomings in the directive itself which need to be addressed sooner or later, such as the directive on temporary residence permits, which makes the provision of assistance to victims conditional, whereas this new directive provides unconditional assistance to victims. but equally, there is a need for redress in the relationship between the national coordinators and the european coordinator, and i feel that perhaps it will be important in the future to pay more attention to the coordination of different policies. let it be a development policy where we don't really consider, even today, how important it is to give the issue of human trafficking a higher priority in development policies. we're watching very closely and waiting to see what the new strategy will bring, and i would like to ask you, what added value can we expect from it?
international organised crime threatens security and trafficking in human beings affects almost one million people a year, 80% of whom are women. and that's not even taking into account other people who are being trafficked within the country. human trafficking, whether in the form of sexual exploitation, forced labour, slavery or even illegal organ harvesting, is unfortunately among the latent forms of crime, and very serious. i believe that special attention is needed in the development and implementation of prevention programmes targeting children and young people from risk groups. a comprehensive solution to the wide-ranging problem of trafficking in human beings logically must also include a comprehensive programme for the return and integration of trafficked persons. ladies and gentlemen, this is an area where we must help especially women who come across dubious businessmen who lure them to another country for the purpose of attractive work.
co-financing of projects applying for support from the structural funds was intended to increase the efficiency of the use of european money. a private bank or other company that invests its own money in a project wants not only to get its money back but also to make a profit. it will therefore carefully assess the profitability of each project, thereby reducing the risk of wasting european taxpayers' money. i understand that the commission is looking for a way to continue financing structural projects even in the current difficult situation. however, the mechanism it proposes weakens the pressure on the efficiency of the resources spent. if the eu not only pays for a large part of the investment but also provides a guarantee for the entrepreneurial risk, nothing will prevent banks and private firms from entering into meaningless projects. they're not gonna lose their money. this is precisely the path to irresponsible spending, the consequences of which we see today in every country of the european union.
this parliament often tries to express itself on matters which are not within its competence, often in a way which i consider harmful. as regards personal data, it is good that the european parliament is strictly guarding the freedom of citizens of the union. the fight against international terrorism and organised crime must not lead to everyone becoming a suspect. prevention is important, but protecting civil rights is just as important. i supported the report because when the lives of millions of people are at stake, prevention is more important than repression. nothing will bring back the lives of the victims of the terrorist attack on the new york twins and many others. but we can prevent similar acts of violence by monitoring and sharing information about suspects. however, we must take great care to ensure that citizens' private information is only used under well-defined conditions. to make the use controlled and controllable. otherwise, what happens is exactly what the terrorists want: freedom and democracy replaced with dictatorship.
in writing. − the 2003 eu action plan on forest law enforcement, governance and trade envisages the establishment of partnerships with timber producing and exporting countries to ensure that only legally harvested timber is sold and to promote good forest management. the trade agreement with the central african republic, signed in november 2011, is the fourth such voluntary partnership agreement negotiated by the eu with an african country. it provides a tool to address illegal logging, to support better regulation, as well as to promote market opportunities for trade in timber products from the central african republic in europe. the voluntary partnership agreement can be expected to contribute positively to the overall development and growth of the car, including the provision of revenue from timber exports to the eu and other international markets. in the future, the tax revenues from industrial forestry should also benefit more the local economies and communities in the central african republic. i think it is appropriate for parliament to give its consent to this agreement. at the same time, however, the central african republic government, as well as the european commission, will need to devote sufficient attention to its effective and timely implementation, including capacity building, participation of local communities, protection of indigenous peoples, or general awareness raising of the agreement among the various stakeholders.
in writing. − if you have in december 2005, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a number of voluntary partnership agreements with timber producing and exporting countries to promote trade in legally harvested timber and improve forest management. these bilateral agreements form the basis of the eu action plan and are aimed primarily at stopping illegal logging. the partner countries thereby commit to importing into the eu only wood products originating from verified legal sources. at the same time, they will establish, with eu support, their own systems to verify the legality of timber exports to the eu. in july 2011, an agreement with liberia was signed as the sixth partnership agreement of this kind to be negotiated. as in the case of previous voluntary partnership agreements, the agreement with liberia is expected to help improve governance and enforcement in the forestry sector of that country. in addition to establishing a partnership instrument to enable liberia to halt illegal deforestation and forest degradation, this agreement should improve market opportunities for liberian timber products in the european and other international markets. i am in favour of giving parliament's consent to the conclusion of this agreement. however, i consider it necessary to stress that liberia and the european commission will need to pay sufficient attention to its effective and timely enforcement, including capacity building and the involvement of local communities.
in writing. − the widespread global financial crisis and economic downturn have seriously undermined economic growth and financial stability and caused a significant deterioration in financial and economic conditions in several member states. although important measures have already been taken to offset the negative impact of the crisis, the impact on the real economy, the labour market and citizens remains significant. a member state in difficulty or threatened with difficulty owing to exceptional circumstances beyond its control may be granted union financial assistance. following two previous proposals to amend the corresponding regulation, submitted in response to the current economic and financial crisis, the commission proposes a third amendment containing provisions to allow the creation of a risk-sharing instrument. the proposal would allow for the transfer back to the commission of part of the allocated funds provided by member states experiencing or threatened with financial stability difficulties in order to apply the risk-sharing instrument. at the same time, it aims to ensure the continuation of the implementation of programmes co-financed by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund in the context of the economic recovery of the member states receiving financial assistance. however, i believe that only projects for which the european investment bank or similar institutions have taken a positive financing decision are eligible for funding under the risk-sharing instrument.
in writing. − risk-sharing instruments are targeted at member states most affected by the economic crisis and many strategic projects selected for co-financing cohesion policy programmes are at risk programmes financed by the european regional development fund or the cohesion fund. the measure is intended to cover part of the risk associated with lending to banks or project promoters in member states that are already experiencing or threatened with financial stability difficulties. greece is currently the country most at risk, but other countries may have similar problems in the future, which is why i supported this commission proposal and resolution.
in writing. − a european legal framework has been adopted allowing airlines to transfer passenger data from passenger identity records. in this context, an agreement between the united states of america and the european union on the use and transfer of passenger name records to the united states department of homeland security was concluded. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon on 1 december 2009, the conclusion of new agreements on passenger name record systems requires the consent of the european parliament before the council decides on their final approval. the clear purpose of that agreement is to lay down the conditions under which personal data in the passenger name record may be transferred, processed and protected. however, there is legal uncertainty as to whether the draft agreement complies with eu data protection legislation and thus is compatible with the treaties in this respect. i therefore consider it justified that the european parliament has decided to ask the court of justice for an opinion on the compatibility of the agreement with the treaties.
in writing. − i voted against the pnr agreement because i believe that it severely restricts the human rights and civil liberties of eu citizens. in may 2010, the ep rejected the original proposal and, despite the commission's efforts to equalise the positions of the us and the eu, the result is only minor adjustments that we can in no way see as protecting the rights of eu citizens, for whom we as meps bear not only a political but also a human responsibility.
in writing. − the eu-us agreement on the transfer of passenger name record data does not meet the safeguards required by the ep in its previous resolutions. these guarantees were the limits of acceptability. the commission has not satisfied itself that the proposed retention and processing of pnr data for law enforcement purposes is necessary and proportionate, nor has it responsibly considered alternative measures that would constitute a lesser interference with privacy. the commission has not been able to improve the 2007 agreement in any way. unwitting passengers will continue to be profiled, classified into non-transparent risk categories and their data will be stored for 15 years. therefore, there are serious doubts about the compatibility of this agreement with the charter of fundamental rights and i do not support its current wording.
in writing. − a common consolidated corporate income tax base should offer a solution to some of the main tax obstacles to growth in the single market. in fact, without common corporate tax rules, there is often (due to the concurrent operation of national tax systems) excessive and double taxation, a high administrative burden for businesses and high compliance costs. this is a disincentive to investing, which is therefore contrary to the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. the proposed common approach would ensure the consistency of national tax systems but would not harmonise tax rates. the differences between the rates allow a certain degree of tax competition to be maintained in the internal market. i believe that fair competition ensures greater transparency and allows member states to take account of both their competitiveness on the market and their budgetary needs when setting their tax rates. moreover, as the proposed scheme is primarily designed for the needs of companies operating cross-border, it should be a voluntary scheme and should only complement existing national corporate tax systems.
in writing. − the directive on a common consolidated corporate tax base lays down common rules for the calculation of the tax base for companies operating in the european union. each member state shall apply its own tax rate to the share on the basis of the tax which has been allocated to it. harmonisation is limited to the calculation and allocation of the taxable amount. the fixing of tax rates remains a matter for the member states. the system is proposed as optional. companies, whether or not they operate on a cross-border basis, will be able to apply this scheme, but are not obliged to do so. i consider the common consolidated tax base to be a step forward in reducing the administrative burden of doing business in the eu and i support it.
in writing. − for the european union, energy policy objectives are as essential as industrial policy objectives. i feel that our industrial policy objectives have been somewhat overshadowed by the revision of the directive, and that we need to strike the right balance between the two conflicting problems. the question of energy taxation must be approached with caution in all respects. we need to align it with the newly adopted energy efficiency directive and the eu energy policy guidelines. a double taxation of energy, based on co2 emissions and energy content, would entail a more logical and consistent system. this proposal can also contribute to the implementation of our europe 2020 strategy. however, it should be borne in mind that in most member states it would lead to a significant increase in the price of diesel fuel. therefore, even if we accept the minimum value for diesel, i do not consider it desirable to introduce the principle of proportionality in its current form. this would interfere with national tax policies, not to mention that the increase in the price of diesel fuel would raise the price of many other products.
in writing. − i welcome the commission's proposal to contribute to energy efficiency and climate protection in order to achieve not only revenue but also, and above all, to reduce dependence on fossil fuels and also to influence consumer behaviour towards a more energy-efficient or cleaner energy. however, i am of the opinion that member states should be free to design their tax systems and to determine their own tax rates for energy products at national level, respecting minimum levels. in the area of traditional motor fuels, i am concerned that the implementation of the principle of proportionality risks increasing taxes on diesel. the negative impact would not only affect the daily life of consumers, their purchasing behaviour, but also freight transport and the automotive industry, which has invested heavily in diesel engine research and development in recent years.
in writing. − taxation on co2 emissions and the energy content of an energy product, on the one hand, and the observance of the so-called proportionality between the individual minimum thresholds set at european union level by the member states, on the other hand, would lead in particular to a substantial increase in diesel prices in the vast majority of member states. i therefore supported the rapporteur's view, which rejected this proportionality in view of its destabilising effect. perhaps the most serious consequence would be inflation, as the increase in the price of diesel would be reflected in an increase in retail prices. i would like to clarify in this connection that i do not reject the commission's attempt to remove the price advantage for diesel. such neutral treatment of all fuels would provide a technology-neutral advantage to all co2-free fuels and would also promote energy efficiency. however, i do not agree with raising the minimum tax rate in the way the commission wants to achieve this. neutral fuel taxation can also be achieved by reducing the minimum rate of tax on petrol. it is sad that this solution has not been considered by the commission, the member states or my colleagues in this parliament. the result of today's vote thus means that a unilateral and increasingly difficult to defend price advantage for diesel engine manufacturers and users is maintained. i find that unfair.
in writing. − the conclusions of the study presented by the s&d political group point to the fact that every year one trillion euro is lost in potential tax revenues at the level of the 27 member states. in view of the above, i consider it important to make appropriate efforts to reduce this tax gap by 2020. the european union should endeavour to contribute to the necessary stabilisation of financial markets and the economy as a whole by significantly reducing liquidity in financial transactions unrelated to real economic activity. it is also important to increase public revenues to help accelerate fiscal consolidation while alleviating the current pressure on public expenditure on education, health and social policy. last but not least, i believe it is important to make efforts to increase public investment, which would ultimately lead to a strengthening of the european union as a whole and to an effective fight against tax fraud and evasion.
in writing. - we must be uncompromising and intolerant in the fight against tax fraud and tax evasion. if we want to promote growth, we cannot make up for the deficit by taxing more entrepreneurs and smes. the high unemployment rates have been eroded, and education and health care are underfunded. i see the search for resources in the prevention of massive tax evasion or in the prevention of tax fraud. i therefore expect the commission and the council to speed up the initiative to tackle this problem, because in my country too the new government has taken over an economy where it will need eur 1.5 billion just to consolidate public resources. we need another €1.5 billion if we are to meet the maastricht criteria. we lose €3 billion a year on tax evasion, €2 billion of which is vat. the other eur 3 billion is estimated to be in the grey economy, and these are certainly resources which, if eliminated, would not only ensure social peace but would also be very successful in promoting growth. i therefore supported the motion for a resolution and the amendments.
by adopting the stockholm programme, the european council of december 2009 decided that the union should accede to the european convention for the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms. accession of the european union as a regional grouping organisation shall be subject to specific conditions which are different from those defined for the accession of states. it follows from the wording of the treaty of lisbon that legal acts of the union produce their effects on individuals only by means of implementing or implementing national measures. the union's accession to the convention would therefore need to transfer the specific character of the judicial system of the union to the framework of the principles governing the functioning of the control mechanisms established by the convention, in particular the principle of subsidiarity. given the complexity and scale of the changes resulting from accession to the convention, i therefore respect the position of those union states which are not subject to populist pressure to over-accelerate this difficult process.
the treaty of lisbon, which has been in force for almost two and a half years, has become a major milestone in the development of fundamental rights protection not only in the european union but also in europe. the lisbon treaty clearly stated that the european union would accede to the european convention on human rights. i am pleased that this accession will further strengthen and deepen the protection of fundamental human rights and freedoms in the union by giving the european court of human rights in strasbourg the power to review the conformity of union acts with the convention. i would therefore like to express the hope that the remaining legal uncertainties can be resolved without undue delay and that the member states can reach an acceptable agreement so that the european union can accede to the european convention for the protection of fundamental rights and freedoms as soon as possible.
concerns about the reliability and effectiveness of biometric passports in the european union have persisted and no satisfactory solution has been found, although passports have been used in various member states for more than five years. replacing conventional paper passports with biometric ones, which have a special chip with biometric data unique to each individual, was intended to help prevent passports from being falsified. the initial use of hundreds of thousands, some estimates say up to millions of biometric passports to be verified and the issuing of such passports on the basis of false or forged documents, however, indicates that minimum security standards for passports are not sufficient to ensure the authenticity of the document. as this is a matter of internal security and european union law and order, i support the introduction of stricter rules not only on passports themselves but also on the overall procedure for issuing them.
i want to point out one problem. even if we agree on the definition and criteria of local production, we face one serious problem. local products are in many cases the products of small producers. the time and financial requirements to secure the subsidy are so high that in many cases the subsidy is not available. for most of them, there is no point in putting energy into it, and the subsidy policy actually puts them at a disadvantage. it is a disadvantage to them, and that is why i regard such a subsidy policy as one of the distortions of the common agricultural policy.
modernizing europe's higher education systems to meet the changing needs of the european economy and society is a bold and visionary reform that will not only help the eu face global competition, but also has the potential to put europe back at the forefront of the world's most dynamic economies. in this respect, the higher education system must become more business-oriented and ensure the effective transfer of cutting-edge knowledge and skills from universities directly to practice. in many member states, we are currently experiencing a shortage of highly qualified technical and scientific professionals and doctors, as well as a glut of humanities graduates, which is having a negative impact on employment and on research and development, innovation and, ultimately, economic growth. i'm going to cut to the chase, and thank you so much for the opportunity to speak.
certainly none of us object to the fact that we really need to modernize universities and we also need to rethink our curricula that we have in universities to really prepare young people for the job market and for them to be able to apply, and one of the options that we can apply right now is to encourage more women to go into education, because we know that 60 percent of people who graduate from college are women. how is it that only nine percent of them are leading us to universities, for example, so there really is a greater need to give women education and also to give them opportunities to lead and support maybe universities or their faculties. it is also very important to promote science and research between universities, not just to get more women into science and research, but to promote science and research in general, not just at universities but also in cooperation between universities, and i think that mr tökes' report has made a very good point of this. and so i want to close with a thought that is very important to me. we're talking about the difference between loans and grants. i am very pleased that the european parliament has a very important function and a very clear position that we do not want to encourage loans at the expense of grants, especially for socially disadvantaged groups.
quality education for the growing population is an elementary condition for the dynamic development of society. in the european union, university education has a rich tradition and for young people, studying at a university is not only a matter of social prestige but also a prerequisite for obtaining a good job. however, current economic problems show us that the structure of higher education institutions is not responding to the needs of the changing labour market, resulting in a high percentage of university graduates who are unable to find a suitable job in their field. therefore, more efforts must be made to effectively align higher education institutions with the needs of the labour market so that the structure of the courses they offer is responsive to changing social and economic conditions. support for university and higher education by the states and the european union is necessary, but it should be directed only to those institutions whose graduates find a corresponding place in society after leaving school. we must therefore introduce new and better incentive criteria in the way they are financed.
in writing. although europe has some 19 million students and more than 4000 higher education institutions, only 26% of the workforce currently has a university qualification. the responsibility for higher education lies mainly with the states and the higher education institutions themselves. there are several challenges they face today. these include, for example, the issue of graduates, improving access to higher education or adapting curricula to labour market requirements. this is also one way of enabling graduates to find employment that corresponds to their education. it is the monitoring of professional practice and the availability of internationally comparable graduate data that can help higher education institutions to better fulfil their role. in the context of the current economic crisis, it is important that higher education institutions continue to be well funded. happily, access to education is improving for people from all backgrounds. however, as a consequence, schools have to cope with an increase in the number of students or a different student base. they also often adapt their teaching methods to suit students with different needs. i believe that in order to modernise higher education, steps must be taken to ensure that member states do not lag behind higher education elsewhere in the world. european higher education must move forward if europe's competitiveness in the world is to be maintained or even improved.
in writing. in most member states, unfortunately, it is becoming increasingly difficult for people with a university degree to find a job, so i think it is important to modernise higher education systems and implement reforms. the economic crisis has led to significant budget cuts in education, while vocational and higher education in particular are the areas most in need of modernisation to overcome the crisis. this is the area most in need of a reform programme to meet the new demands of a rapidly changing labour market and work organisation. we must be ready to respond to challenges. therefore, sustainable higher education should continue to be based on public investment, thereby ensuring that as many people as possible have access to higher education. the creation of new study programmes should reflect the labour market needs of the countries. this can only be achieved through research, surveys and continuous and reciprocal cooperation with businesses. the proportion of european graduates who have completed their studies abroad is increasing, but unfortunately there is still a problem with the mutual recognition of diplomas, which is also a disadvantage in terms of placement. i agree that in the field of higher education member states should strengthen cooperation between their respective ministries in order to achieve mutual recognition of diplomas and qualifications and better harmonisation.
first of all, i would like to commend ms ţicău for her efforts to give a new impetus to the issue of e-government. in addition to the advantages of electronic communication with public administrations already described, i would like to draw attention to the need to define at least basic it compatibility standards for public administrations that will gradually enter this process. i think it's very important that operating systems, as well as the applications built on them that citizens use, are able to communicate with each other. for example, microsoft, android and similar operating systems are currently in use and do not work correctly on some applications and devices. so if we want to build public administration at the level of the european union or even communicate with each other between certain institutions, we need these operating systems and applications to be able to understand each other and to create in cooperation, i would say, the coherent system we want to achieve.
the information and communication technologies presented here by the rapporteur, mrs ţicău, have become a normal part of the daily life of modern man, and as such they have a significant impact on the overall economic, political and social developments. the sector accounts for up to 5% of the eu's gross domestic product and contributes significantly to overall productivity growth. the real potential of the ict sector remains untapped in view of the many barriers in the digital single market. one of the main constraints i consider to be the restriction of cross-border provision of electronic and telecommunications services, which leads to the creation of unequal conditions for the provision of the same services in different member states. such barriers to the internal market and differences in the level of infrastructure development within member states must be systematically removed.
in writing. in 2010, the european commission adopted the 2020 strategy, which aims to create smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. one of the seven initiatives of this european growth is precisely the digital agenda for europe. the primary objective of the digital agenda is to make the most effective use of ict and to create an innovative e-government. according to our data, more than 65% of the eu population regularly uses the internet. broadband internet coverage reached 95,3%. the average accessibility of public online services reached 82% in 2010. i would therefore like to draw your attention to the need to include educational institutions and the use of educational software in these programmes. addressing the digital literacy of the european union's citizens is also a major challenge, as limited literacy is the biggest barrier to the full and effective use of available technologies.
i thank the rapporteur for her work, but i am embarrassed to read paragraph 30 of the report. i quote: 'the european parliament recognises that population growth has an impact on climate and stresses the need to respond appropriately to all unmet needs of women and men in the area of contraception in all societies.' i have two questions. is the rapporteur saying that in the name of saving the climate, we should stop having children? do we need to distribute condoms, pills and provide reproductive health services because of climate change and co2 emissions? if one's ideology leads one to this, beyond the borders of absurdity, rational discussion loses its meaning because words are missing. the report on the negative impacts of climate change on women suggests that the solution is to deprive women of their femininity by discouraging them from becoming mothers. none of the millennium development goals mention reducing population growth in developing countries. that would be an obvious contradiction. human life, though thousands of miles away, is so precious that the united nations has been called in to deal with the lack of drinking water and the threat of death. experts are being deployed, and billions are being spent to rescue them. but there is this paradox. it assumes that one of the main causes of poverty, and according to this report, also of climate change, is population growth. however, these claims have serious flaws. the international monetary fund published a table in january 2011 that predicts the 10 fastest growing economies in the world, and among them are 7 african countries with the highest birth rate. it is a pity that in one point this report has succeeded in calling into question the meaning of all the positive proposals it contains.
for the efd group. first of all, it is regrettable to acknowledge the truth of the statement in the report that european policy on biodiversity protection has failed utterly. there are certainly a number of reasons for this failure. i think one of the reasons why the european union's biodiversity policy is failing is that there is a lack of awareness in society about the importance of preserving ecosystems for the future of life on earth. we must therefore be able to convince not only our citizens, but also regional politicians and business managers, that the protection of biodiversity is not incompatible with sustainable and economic growth. increased awareness of the need to protect and conserve ecosystems will generate greater pressure on public authorities as well as on business entities to not tolerate environmental damage through their actions. we also need to invest more in research to better understand the interactions between the different components of ecosystems and to avoid interfering with nature in ways that can cause serious damage to the system. research aimed at the conservation of biodiversity must be multidisciplinary in nature, taking into account not only ecological, climatological or genetic aspects but also social and economic aspects. commissioner, the continued degradation of ecosystems reminds us that we need to be much more agile in our actions to protect biodiversity.
for the efd group. civilization's interference with ecosystems causes irreversible environmental degradation, and therefore our efforts to eliminate the natural damage to the environment are fully legitimate and necessary. the sixth environment action plan, which has provided us with a framework for environmental policy, is coming to an end in july this year and therefore the continuity of european environmental policy needs to be addressed. in the subsequent seventh environment action programme, experience has shown that greater emphasis will need to be placed on substantially strengthening environmental legislation and gradually integrating environmental objectives into all sectoral policies. more emphasis will also need to be placed on the cross-border dimension of environmental protection. the broader thematic strategies should be translated into legislation with defined objectives and timetables in order to effectively monitor and evaluate their impact. in addition to a global environmental policy, we should also work on specific integrated strategies for individual geographical areas or urban agglomerations, taking into account the specific characteristics of their ecosystems. in any event, the seventh environment action programme should be better structured, more precise, more ambitious and more effective in order to make the best use of the experience of the european union's multiannual environmental policy.
what i wanted to say as a doctor was that i would like to see a more in-depth study of the impact of climate on human health, both men and women, perhaps on malnutrition and the incidence of infectious diseases, in order to ensure prevention, access to health services and medicines, health care, especially in areas at risk of natural disasters. it is true that women are somehow more affected by some intermediate means, for example when it comes to climate change in rural settlements, where in some regions 70% of women work in agriculture and produce 90% of the cereals. but to tell you the truth, doing studies like this, and then putting articles in there about abortion rights and controversial issues that i can't agree with, i want to say that i couldn't support this report because there were other things that were inserted.
in writing. − if you have on 1 december 2011, the trialogue reached an agreement on the financing of the additional costs of the iter project in 2012-2013 amounting to eur 1 300 million. the additional costs should be financed as follows: eur 100 million is already included under the iter project budget lines in the 2012 budget; eur 360 million in commitment appropriations will be made available under the 2013 budgetary procedure within the ceilings for commitment appropriations in the mff; the ceilings for commitment appropriations will be increased by eur 650 million in 2012 and by eur 190 million in 2013; the ceiling for total payment appropriations for 2013 will be increased by eur 580 million. the political agreement in this form was subsequently adopted by the european parliament and the council in accordance with their internal procedures in december 2011.
in writing. − fusion energy can provide a long-term solution to the energy dependence of the european union and the world in a sustainable way. iter will demonstrate and refine the key technologies needed to develop fusion as a safe and environmentally friendly energy source, as it does not produce greenhouse gases or long-lived radioactive waste. we all know that it is extremely challenging to build, both financially and technically. the budget has been under constant pressure over the past few years, so we need reliable resources to finish the program. it is of particular importance that the additional cost of eur 1.3 million for 2012-13 has been resolved, so that we can continue to lead in research and development. i believe iter will bring the promised revolutionary breakthrough that could provide a long-term, radical solution to our energy problems. that's why i voted to expand the budget.
in writing. − although europe has some 19 million students and over 4 000 higher education institutions, only 26% of the workforce currently has a university qualification. the responsibility for higher education lies primarily with the member states and the higher education institutions themselves. there are several challenges they face today. these include, for example, the issue of graduates, improving access to higher education or adapting curricula to labour market requirements. this is one way of enabling graduates to find a job that is commensurate with their education. it is precisely the monitoring of graduates' professional application and the availability of internationally comparable graduate data that can help higher education institutions to better fulfil their role. however, in the context of the current economic crisis, it is equally important that higher education institutions continue to be well funded. happily, access to higher education is improving for people from all backgrounds. however, as a consequence of this fact, schools have to cope with an increase in the number of students or a different student base. they also often adapt their teaching methods to suit students with different needs. given the often difficult circumstances, i believe that in the spirit of modernising higher education, steps must be taken to ensure that member states do not lag behind higher education elsewhere in the world.
in writing. − by 2020, 35% of all jobs in the eu will require high qualifications. the eu higher education system will have to meet this challenge by adapting its study programmes and working methods to the requirements of the labour market and an increasingly diverse student population. the ep regretted the significant cuts in the education budget in several member states and reminded them of the target of investing 2% of their gdp in education. parliament called on the member states and regional and local authorities to ensure adequate funding for higher education. the ep believes that investments in university infrastructure could be co-financed by the european regional development fund and the social fund. i fully share that view.
in writing. − the seven key initiatives of the european growth strategy adopted by the european commission in 2010 include the digital agenda for europe a strategy to harness the potential offered by the rapid advances in digital technologies. member states apply different models using electronic signatures for egovernment applications, but most eu countries have adopted them in their applications without taking into account electronic signatures created by companies and individuals in other countries. the regulatory, technical and organisational framework shall always be organised from a purely national perspective. this means in practice that foreign nationals must be physically registered in the country where the application is used. only a few national egovernment applications are open to them. the main obstacle to the cross-border use of electronic signatures is the lack of trust in electronic signatures originating from another country and the difficulties in their verification. however, i believe that when deciding on the level of signature security in egovernment applications, member states should also consider cross-border interoperability and, where possible, remove barriers to cross-border services. i think that the adoption of the best possible combination of new technologies, open specifications, innovation architecture would also clearly benefit all stakeholders - citizens and businesses - and strengthen their rights.
in writing. − given that the public procurement market represents 16% of eu gdp and that smes account for 99% of businesses in the eu, particular attention needs to be paid to the cross-border interoperability of egovernment systems and the mass adoption of e-invoicing. although 70% of eu public bodies have started working with e-procurement, the low 5% adoption rate does not yet allow them to reap its main benefits. its wider application could mean cost savings of up to 30%. the proposal entitled 'connecting europe facility cef' allocates eur 9.2 billion to support investments in high-speed broadband networks and pan-european digital services. i fully support these activities.
in writing. − if you have the situation in northern mali threatens the stability of the entire african subregion. the sahel is a key area between sub-saharan africa and europe and is of great importance to both sides, in particular from a security perspective. the european union has an interest in and a desire to establish stability and security in the region. however, the situation in this area is critical at present. there are links to drug dealers, to arms dealers, and even to people who are often held captive and ransomed for release. terrorist groups exploit the adverse living conditions, social deprivation and uncertain job prospects to recruit mainly young men into their ranks under the pretext of earning money. cooperation between all countries in the sahel and the sahel region plays an important role in the fight against separatist militant groups, terrorism and various forms of trafficking in human beings. the efforts to prevent terrorism, trafficking in human beings and human rights violations are also a direct interest of the european union and its member states. i believe it is essential to mobilise all available resources in order to protect and promote security and development in this african region.
in writing. − if you have according to a report by the un special rapporteur on human rights in burma/myanmar, concerns persist about serious human rights violations, the return of people to prison in appalling conditions, and the persecution of ethnic minorities. there has been no progress in the efforts to reform the law and to ensure the independence of the judiciary. despite the government's opening of ceasefire negotiations with rebel groups, human rights violations continue to be severe and large numbers of people are forcibly displaced. many sectors of economic activity in burma/myanmar, such as logging, oil or gas extraction, have been directly linked to serious human rights violations and environmental destruction, and have been a major source of revenue for both the military and governmental entities. in addition, the government of burma/myanmar is preventing humanitarian aid from entering the country. for a prospective and cooperative relationship with the european union, i consider it important that burma/myanmar take the necessary steps leading to the democratisation of the country. i consider it essential to release the remaining political prisoners and to allow local and international humanitarian organisations unrestricted access to conflict zones.
in writing. − article 207 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union states that european investment in third countries is an integral part of the european union's common commercial policy. the argentine government decided to expropriate a majority stake in an oil company. this was accompanied by the assumption of control of the company by representatives of the argentine government, relocating the company's managers and employees. the financial instability and uncertainty of recent months has led to a decline in its market value and a similar situation has occurred for some other european companies. i consider that the decision by argentina to proceed with the expropriation of the majority of the shares may call into question the principle of legal certainty in that country and deteriorate the investment climate. the european union and argentina have traditionally enjoyed a good partnership, sharing common values, principles and interests, and i believe that it would be right to resume dialogue and negotiations, which would also allow for some differences of opinion to be resolved. i believe it would be appropriate for the high representative for the common foreign and security policy to enter into a dialogue with the argentine authorities in an attempt to overcome this situation so that legal certainty for european investment in argentina can be restored.
in writing. − a decentralised approach to aid delivery brings decision-making closer to the actual delivery of aid, and to more effective and operational donor coordination and harmonisation. it is important that the delegation of powers and the wider reform of external aid managed by the commission accelerate and improve financial management practices and the quality of aid in partner countries. 74% of the union's external aid from the eu budget and the european development fund is managed by 136 union delegations. i believe it is appropriate to strengthen coordination between the eu, the member states and the partner countries and also to coordinate and harmonise development activities, to increase their efficiency and effectiveness. the process of delegating powers from the commission's headquarters to the delegations should be linked to a mechanism at member state level. such a functioning mechanism would provide all the necessary information on the areas in which the agencies intend to spend their budgetary resources, thereby increasing the targeting of assistance and identifying missing sources and funding opportunities in individual countries. at the same time, it is welcome that the european public is increasingly supporting oda as a means of eradicating poverty and achieving the development goals it has set. in this context, i consider it appropriate to present how aid delivery contributes to improving the lives of poor people, as such a move could go a long way towards dispelling scepticism about the effectiveness of the aid provided.
in writing. −the gender link to climate change has only recently been taken into account and has not yet led to a genuine gender mainstreaming in climate policies. moreover, the issues of climate justice are slowly fading away. however, the effects of climate change will have a disproportionate impact on women, and that is why i think it is important to stress that the fight against climate change must be an absolute priority for the european union. gender discrimination is everywhere in our societies. it is therefore of the utmost importance that we do not take it lightly in climate policy. gender mainstreaming is an opportunity to fight climate change better, more equitably and more effectively. i believe it is important to build on both principles: to address the effects of inequalities and to address their causes, in particular by increasing women's financial independence and strengthening the means of their emancipation. although at the european union level the link between gender and development policies has already been integrated, the relationships between gender and mitigation policy are neither explored nor exploited. i am concerned that if gender mainstreaming efforts are not made in the design of comprehensive policies, these policies could negatively impact efforts to achieve gender equality.
in writing. − biodiversity is our life insurance, providing us with food, fresh water and clean air, shelter and medicines, mitigating natural disasters, damage caused by pests and diseases and contributing to climate regulation. it is also natural capital, providing the ecosystem services that underpin our economy. its loss, together with the climate change with which it is inextricably linked, represents the most critical global environmental threat. species are now dying off at an unprecedented rate. this rate is 100 to 1,000 times faster than it would be if they died naturally. and it is primarily human activities that are causing this situation. the continuing and increasing pressures on biodiversity in europe, such as land-use change, over-exploitation of biodiversity and its components, the spread of invasive alien species, pollution and climate change, are either remaining at a constant level or increasing, and at the same time indirect factors affecting biodiversity, such as population growth, limited awareness of biodiversity and the fact that the economic value of biodiversity is not reflected in the decision-making process, are not very conducive to the situation. i believe it is important to reverse the loss of biodiversity and accelerate the eu's transition to a so-called green, resource-efficient economy. and it is this effort that is also an integral part of the europe 2020 strategy.
in writing. − a healthy environment and a high level of environmental protection are essential conditions for guaranteeing the quality of life and maintaining the stability of ecosystems. environmental action programmes are a major driver for the adoption of strong eu environmental legislation, particularly in areas such as air, water, waste and climate. protecting our environment improves the quality of life in particular by preserving ecosystems and their services, halting biodiversity loss, ensuring better air quality, reducing noise, creating jobs and growth, while ensuring the well-being of present and future generations. the current sixth environment action programme (6eap) expires in july of that year. its thorough evaluation concluded that the 6th eap provided an overall framework for environmental policy and consolidated and substantially complemented environmental legislation during its lifetime. despite these positive developments, i believe that the state of our environment cannot yet be considered fully satisfactory. i therefore consider it important and justified to adopt the 7th eap as soon as possible, in order to ensure continuity and, where possible, a sustainable future. however, in addition, the ongoing 7th environment action programme should provide a clear ambitious vision for 2050 and thus a long-term perspective for all stakeholders.
in writing. there is no alternative to european integration, and any idea of limiting the eu's powers, including the use of a common currency and the free movement guaranteed by the schengen area, can be dangerous. european society, like other developed countries, produces consumption by profit-oriented companies and corporations at a level that is unsustainable in the long run. the present crisis may persist for a long time, for it is not just a financial and economic crisis but also a moral and moral crisis. in my view, the austerity measures of the right-wing governments can remedy the situation, which could lead to further growth in the course of financial consolidation. he fears that the re-emergence of socialist governments will lead to a reversal of austerity measures and a further debt burden on society. an appropriate balance must be struck between stimulating economic growth and saving measures.
relevant surveys by independent institutions, as well as the eurobarometer survey, show that the market environment for mobile data services does not function in such a way that competition between providers generates transparent and fair prices for users of those services. therefore, a certain degree of regulation is justified, including the setting of maximum prices for the different types of services provided. like my colleagues on the committee on industry, research and energy, i am convinced that the commission's proposal, in particular the 50 cent maximum retail price per megabyte of data transferred abroad after 1 july 2014, is too generous for operators. i therefore support the reasoned amendments to the regulation prepared by this committee and i would be very happy to join those members who will vote in favour of adopting the improved draft regulation.
the commission has repeatedly called on operators in the past to reduce excessively high roaming charges. but the challenges remained unanswered and the eu decided to intervene through price regulation in order to protect consumers. in july 2011, the commission proposed a third roaming regulation in a row. the reform aims to bring down the prices of international calls to the level of national tariffs. healthy competition has not yet developed and customers continue to pay prices that are unreasonably high. the report on the development of the roaming market states that current charges are not flexible enough to prevent users from paying excessively high prices. i think the proposed fee reduction is the right thing to do. if we want the vision of the single internal market to be truly realised, we must tackle the problems of roaming. such action is in line with the europe 2020 strategy, the single market act and also the digital agenda for europe. electronic communications must be universally accessible and available at reasonable prices. i therefore support all measures to eliminate unfair roaming charges. there is no technical justification for continuing roaming. roaming charges should be abolished altogether. we need to make sure that consumers are not being ripped off by the big mobile operators. their profits in this area are disproportionately high.
the high level of roaming charges is a major obstacle for citizens to study or work in another country. the current roaming regulation expires on 30 june 2012. the regulation has significantly reduced prices for both roaming calls and text messages. the effectiveness of regulatory intervention in the market for mobile roaming services should be extended beyond 30 june 2012. the aim is to ensure a substantial reduction in charges and by 2015 there should no longer be any differences between domestic and roaming charges. if, from 1 july 2014, customers can sign a contract for the provision of mobile roaming services, which will be separate from the contract for the provision of national mobile services, we will promote competition in the market for roaming services and this will be a further step forward in the evolution. the retail price regulation will continue until 1 june 2016, but its duration may be extended until the structural measures it introduces are fully effective. the new regulation should continue to regulate roaming charges for calls and text messages and introduce a new essential element: a euro data tariff for retail data roaming services. we need new structural measures to revive competition, with price ceilings maintained as a 'life-saving net' for customers to cover the period until competition itself pushes prices down.
the social changes brought about by the arab spring in the southern mediterranean have to some extent altered the political situation in the region. the european union must have an interest in the long-term stability and prosperity of the arab countries which have undergone these serious changes. trade is one area that allows countries to improve partnerships and strengthen mutual trust. in addition to political assistance for the building of democratic structures, there is therefore a need to focus on the resumption of trade and economic cooperation between the union and the region. in particular, we must be effective in helping to rebuild economic structures, from small family farms to micro-enterprises to larger enterprises employing local labour, because economic and financial self-sufficiency is the basis for preventing people from leaving their country and looking for a future in economic emigration. we must therefore make the necessary efforts and help today to stabilise the region not only politically but also economically.
in writing our society has reached a stage where we have to think about the underlying philosophy of intellectual property protection. we are witnessing a growing conflict between private and public interest. on the one hand, a patent as a time-limited monopoly makes it possible to cover the cost of costly research and development. without patent protection, investors' risk would be so greatly increased that many inventions and improvements would never have been made. their authors would not be able to obtain the necessary financial resources. on the other hand, we see that in areas such as agriculture and health, patent protection poses an ethical problem: we see that higher prices for patented crops or medicines prevent their distribution where they could save millions of lives from poverty, disease or death. this conflict is all the more complicated because the private interest and the pursuit of individual well-being through one's own work, including intellectual work, is an integral part of the public well-being. in other words, the well-being of society as a whole will only increase if the well-being of its members increases. it seems to me that we are not ready today to propose a fundamental reform of intellectual property protection, whether it be patents or copyright. so we have no choice but to take small steps. one of them is the distinction between traditional breeding and modern biotechnologies proposed by this parliament.
the commission notes that the airport services agreement concluded between ryanair and ams was signed on the same day as the airport services agreement signed with ryanair on the same day. in addition to the large international airports, passenger and cargo services are also provided by smaller airports of regional importance, which by their activity provide significant transport support to the cities and regions they serve. in particular, in the integrated area of the european union, as the mobility of the population takes on new dimensions, well-organised air transport becomes an important aspect of improving the comfort and speed of travel. it is therefore appropriate to deal in substance with the specificities of regional airports, which operate in a very different regime than the large hub airports, which are the main focus of european legislation. specific regional air transport operations need to be properly transposed into european union rules in order to function properly, as mr bradbourn proposes.
in writing the commission notes that the airport services agreement with ryanair was signed on 27 june 2010 and that the agreement was signed on 28 june 2010. many of us use their services every week on our way to the ep. in addition to ensuring the mobility of more people, they contribute to the expansion of tourism and to the economic growth of the regions concerned. in the context of the financial and economic crisis, it is important that large airlines do not create monopolies and drive regional airports out of the market. the monopoly in air transport contributes to the rise in transport service prices and to other disadvantageous and restrictive transport conditions for passengers. a well-functioning eu single market needs regional airports and air services for the transport of people and goods and the development of remote towns and regions. therefore , when developing the next aviation package , the commission should take into account the need to preserve and promote regional airports .
as a preliminary point, i would like to stress that the european union agencies, including the human rights agency, are essential in relation to the achievement of the objectives and policies of the european union. although they represent only 1% of the union budget, their contribution to the citizens of the member states is undeniable. however, in the context of the discharge for the implementation of the fundamental rights agency's budget, i consider it necessary to emphasise that if the agency is to continue to function and develop its activities in the most efficient way possible, it must adopt a number of measures to help it overcome the main problems related to budgetary activities, expenditure, project financing or staff recruitment. allegations of alleged harassment of staff are also very worrying, and a lawsuit has already been filed in this regard. it is therefore now essential that the agency respond appropriately to these allegations and clarify the treatment of whistleblowers, as the consistent application of existing rules on whistleblower protection is not clear and the agency should inform and report to the european parliament. another negative aspect is related to budget planning. the agency should also improve in this respect. the high volume of funds transferred is worrying and the court has also repeatedly pointed this out. (the president accepted the question under the procedure for withdrawing the blue card under rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure. )
answer to the question asked by raising the blue card mr rubik, we will certainly come back to this when we talk about the work of the various agencies; but at the moment we are talking about the discharge for 2010 and i have mentioned the fundamental rights agency in particular in the context of the discharge. i hope, however, that in the future there will be a more detailed discussion of the work of the various agencies, and i thank you for this question, which i think is important to discuss here in the european parliament in the future.
in writing − if you have in july last year, the dispute settlement body (dsb) of the world trade organisation (wto) adopted the appellate body report and the panel report, which were amended by the appellate body report in the case european communities definitive anti-dumping measures concerning certain iron or steel fasteners originating in china. whether the establishment of a single dumping margin and a single anti-dumping duty for several exporters is inconsistent with the articles of the wto anti-dumping agreement will depend on the existence of certain situations. these may include the existence of corporate and structural links between exporters, such as joint control, ownership and management. furthermore, the existence of corporate and structural links between the state and the exporters. on 19 january 2012, the european union and china agreed that the appropriate timeframe for implementing the recommendations and decisions of the dsb would be 14 months and two weeks from the date on which the dsb received the reports. that reasonable period of time will therefore expire on 12 october 2012. in order to allow the european union to respect a reasonable deadline for the implementation of the recommendations and judgments of the dsb agreed between the union and china, i consider it appropriate that the committee on international trade adopted the draft resolution under the simplified procedure.
in writing − the partnership and cooperation agreement establishing a partnership between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and russia, of the other part, entered into force on 1 december 1997. in october 2007, the european union concluded an agreement with the russian government on trade in certain steel products. the agreement introduced quotas for imports of steel from the russian federation into the eu. with russia's entry into the wto's rules-based multilateral trading system, the eu can expect to benefit from more liberal access to the russian market. any remaining obstacles to bilateral trade in steel products that might continue to exist should be minimal and should only be within the clearly defined scope of wto rules governing such matters as tariffs, applicable trade defence measures, technical standards, specific customs/dispatch procedures, etc. i consider it appropriate to examine and remove any trade and investment barriers that may persist bilaterally following russia's accession to the wto. i am also convinced that it would be in the interest of both parties concerned that trade relations between the eu and russia develop in full compliance with the jointly agreed provisions of the existing bilateral agreements.
in writing − if you have in 2010, russia was the largest exporter of steel to the eu with over 6,5 million tonnes, representing 24% of eu steel imports. however, as a result of russia's accession to the wto on 16 december 2011, the eu no longer has the right to apply import quotas for steel imports. following russia's entry into the wto, the eu is expected to benefit from more open access to the russian market. exports of iron and steel products to russia could increase by around eur 107 million per year. the increase in exports of these products from the eu to russia may also be helped by the reduction of the export duties on scrap iron from the current rate of 15% to a rate of 5% to be introduced within five years of russia's accession to the wto. therefore, i supported the repeal of council regulation no 134/2007 on quotas for imports of steel from russia.
in writing − the commission presented this proposal in april 2011 with the aim of improving legal certainty by broadening access to eu legislation and allowing everyone to rely on the electronic edition of the official journal of the european union (oj) as the official, authentic, up-to-date and complete version. the proposal therefore provides that the electronic edition will constitute the valid issue of the oj, whereas in exceptional and time-limited cases of unexpected interruption of the electronic edition, the printed edition would have legal value. electronic publication of oj was one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency from january to july 2011 in relation to the importance of public access to union legislation. however, in view of the council's reservations on national parliamentary scrutiny procedures, the council's formal request for the european parliament's consent was not sent until 13 march 2012. the council text welcomes the reform of the way in which oj are published, as it guarantees greater legal certainty and better access to union legal acts for citizens. today, almost every user consults the electronic version of eu legislation. it is unacceptable that the electronic version of legal acts is not legally binding. consultation of the printed versions of the official journal is a time-consuming and costly procedure carried out by only some users. the reform will therefore increase legal certainty and reduce the cost of access for citizens and businesses. i am of the opinion that all such reforms should be welcomed by the eu.
in writing. − the adoption of the regulation on the authenticity of the electronic version of the official journal of the european union is another step towards bringing the work of the eu institutions, including the legislative outcome, closer to eu citizens. the legislative process, whose parliamentary phase we have concluded today, was one of the priorities of the hungarian presidency in 2011. in today's fast-paced world, money, energy and time can be saved by having access to official texts in a reliable electronic format, including eu documentation. for the time being, the paper version of the official journal of the eu is the only form of publication that is official and can be consulted by anyone, making it more difficult for authorities and citizens to deal with the issue. the electronic version is for information only. the number of citizens who are interested in the outcome of legislation is increasing, which is why it is important that readers can rely fully on the texts published in the electronic version of the official journal. since 1998, when the official journal of the eu became available in electronic form, the number of paper subscriptions has decreased considerably each year. the credibility of the electronic official journal increases legal certainty, makes the work of the eu institutions more transparent and simplifies the lives of many citizens working under eu law, and improves the efficiency of public administration. i voted for the report as its shadow rapporteur.
in writing. - mr corneliu vadim tudor, member of the european parliament, has requested that his parliamentary immunity be protected in connection with proceedings before the supreme court of cassation and appeal in romania. his request relates to a criminal case in which he is accused of threatening and committing acts of violence against the bailiff and several police officers, of insulting and generally of attempting to obstruct the execution of a court order in connection with the expulsion of the romania mare political party from its bucharest premises on 4 january 2011. corneliu vadim tudor is charged in this criminal proceeding with contempt of court, unethical conduct and disturbing the peace. the expulsion of romania mare from its premises and the circumstances surrounding it constitute a civil and criminal matter which has no clear and direct connection with the performance of mr tudor's duties as a member of the european parliament. however, the member did not take the opportunity to explain to the committee responsible his request for the protection of his immunity and, therefore, i believe it is appropriate that parliament has decided not to further protect his immunity and privileges.
in writing. − regional airports and air services are important not only as transport hubs, helping to ensure the smooth functioning of the eu single market by moving people and goods between regions, but also as sources of economic growth. together they broaden the horizon of traditional trade routes and provide significant support to the cities and regions they serve. i consider it important to adopt measures that would help to improve the operational and economic efficiency of airports and air services as a whole, as well as to improve the experience of passengers using these facilities and services. it is important to create a strong, competitive and economically viable airspace. european airports and air services need to be seen as key elements in creating an efficient and well-functioning eu transport network that facilitates trade and ensures mobility for more people. regional air transport can play an important role in ensuring that free movement in the eu becomes a reality not only for people living in large capital cities but also for eu citizens living outside these areas, and that these cities and regions benefit not only from greater mobility but also from the creation of tourism. i believe that even in this way it is important to make efforts to secure access to new markets and to attract more foreign economic investment.
written − european regional airports and air services should be seen as key elements in creating an efficient and well-functioning eu transport network that facilitates trade and ensures mobility for more people. regional air transport can play an important role in ensuring that free movement in the eu becomes a reality not only for people from large cities but also for citizens living outside these areas. it benefits the regions by promoting mobility, stimulating tourism, as well as by ensuring access to new markets and attracting investment. i therefore support this initiative and the recommendations put forward to restore balance and improve the operational and economic efficiency of regional airports and air services.
in writing − if you have as in previous years, the report entitled 'protection of the european union's financial interests fight against fraud the 2010 annual report contains the latest information on irregularities and suspected fraud reported by the member states. the report examines a specific topic agreed in advance by the commission and the member states, namely the risk of double funding in cohesion policy. in 2010, the number of irregularity notifications increased in all sectors except preaccession funds and traditional own resources. the european parliament called on the commission to take all necessary measures, including the exercise of the right of legislative initiative, to ensure that member states comply with their reporting obligations and that data on irregularities and fraud in the member states can be obtained at a reliable and comparable level. i consider the current situation unsatisfactory, because if the commission's annual reports are based on inaccurate data that cannot be compared, it raises questions about their overall purpose. i believe it is essential that the commission takes full responsibility and requires the member states to provide all the necessary data in a timely manner in order to determine the true extent of fraud in the member states.
in writing. − the commission has repeatedly called on mobile operators in the past to reduce excessively high mobile roaming charges. however, the challenges remained unanswered and the european union decided to intervene through price regulation in order to protect consumers. the proposed reform aims to reduce the prices of international calls from mobile networks to the level of national tariffs. healthy competition has not yet developed and customers continue to pay prices that are unreasonably high. the report on the development of the roaming market states that current charges (apart from specific tariffs) are not sufficiently flexible to prevent users from paying unreasonably high prices in the face of competing national tariffs. i believe that the proposed reduction of the maximum charges is a step in the right direction as part of the gradual abolition of any specific roaming charges. electronic communications are a service of general political interest. they must be universally accessible and available at reasonable prices. that is why i am in favour of all measures to eliminate unfair roaming charges.
in writing − high roaming prices are the result of a lack of competition in the roaming market caused by structural market problems. if no solution is found in effective structural measures, it is necessary to respond with temporary price regulation. however, the price caps should at the same time leave sufficient room for new entrants to enter the market and thus to strengthen competition. the new regulation introduces a new element: a euro data tariff for retail data roaming services. it also introduces the possibility for customers to sign a contract for the provision of mobile roaming services, which will be separate from national mobile services, as from 1 july 2014. the regulation will continue until at least june 1, 2016, and i supported the text of the regulation.
in writing. − millions of citizens in the european union use their mobile phones for everyday communication. the number of these users is increasing almost daily, making it easier to stay in touch. however, most europeans prefer to turn off their mobile phone services when abroad to avoid the high bills that carriers charge. this decline is mainly due to the continued weak competition in the roaming market. excessive roaming charges and the resulting low use of roaming services within the eu are not in the interests of european consumers or the european economy. the current state of affairs is also incompatible with the basic idea of a digital european internal market. the regulation which has just been adopted seeks to find a way out of this situation, which is why i voted in favour of this proposal.
in writing - my colleagues. the internet is gradually becoming part of everyone's life. the interest, and unfortunately in many cases the need to be online wherever you are, is growing. i consider roaming charges in the european union, within its single market, to be an unnecessary financial burden on consumers. only the big companies that provide these mobile services benefit. although we have still not managed to completely abolish roaming charges, the s&d group has made significant progress in reducing roaming charges for calls, sms and data. data roaming in particular has caused significant problems for its users. we are constantly seeing cases where inadvertently activating such a service causes a user to incur large debts with the mobile companies. i therefore consider it of the utmost importance to address these problems by fairly regulating the prices of roaming services. by 2014, consumers should pay 65% less for roaming services, but i firmly believe that one day we will be able to abolish these charges completely.
in writing − i supported the roaming regulation, including its amendments, because it introduces structural measures that promote competition. in the financial and economic crisis, mobile operators have been the most prosperous. their massive daily advertising campaign entices people to buy their services many times over without disclosing the prices for individual items, but they offer services in packages where the consumer has no possibility to compare prices for individual services. mobile phones and data transmission have become an indispensable necessity of people's daily lives. therefore, the reduction in data charges and the price of roaming services will certainly be welcomed by all users. the adopted decision also created a choice for consumers between different mobile operators.
in writing. − the purpose of the rotterdam convention, which is being implemented in the european union, is to promote the exchange of information on chemicals traded between the parties to the convention and also to introduce a procedure for granting prior authorisation when a party to the convention exports chemicals to another party to the convention. it was important to change the rules on granting prior authorisation to make it easier for exporters of chemicals to export in cases where there is no response. according to the commission, if a country does not respond to export requests, it could be because the authorities in that country do not feel the need to respond to requirements relating to chemicals that are not covered by the rotterdam convention but only by eu legislation. however, it is also possible that the country has a weaker public administration and is therefore unable to respond in time. i think that in such cases it seems very problematic to allow the export of dangerous chemicals to these countries. if their administration is not able to respond to an export request, it is unlikely that it will be able to protect citizens or the environment from hazardous chemicals. the european union is a leader in environmental legislation and should remain so. i believe it is the union's responsibility to ensure that the chemicals we export do not cause unnecessary damage to human health or the environment.
in writing. − the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon has significantly changed the comitology procedure. the adjustment of the rules of procedure as a result of the changes resulting from the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon makes it possible, inter alia, to comply with the request of the president of the european parliament to introduce a procedure clarifying the conditions for the rapid adoption of a delegated or implementing act. the new rule 87a , like the new rule 88 , provides for the procedure which applies in most cases, namely the procedure of the committee responsible without the participation of the associated committees or committees with joint powers. in the case of article 87a (delegated acts), it was necessary to define a procedure allowing parliament to declare, before the expiry of the period laid down in the basic legislative act, that it did not intend to object to a delegated act, as provided for in paragraph 11 of the joint agreement; in particular, in order to give this decision a certain degree of legal certainty. as regards article 88 (implementing acts), in the event that the new provisions apply directly to legislative acts adopted after the entry into force of the new regulation no 182/2011, a number of legislative acts will remain in force during the harmonisation of the existing legislation, for which the regulatory procedure with scrutiny will continue to be governed by article 5a of decision 1999/468/ec. it is therefore necessary that the effects of article 5a of this decision should remain in force for the basic acts which refer to that article.
in writing − if you have it is of particular importance that there be appropriate remedies in the event of an abuse of liberty, in particular where the private life and reputation of individuals have been harmed. each member state should ensure that such remedies are effective in the event of a breach of such rights. at the same time, member states should endeavour to ensure that disproportionate legal costs do not in practice lead to the denial of access to justice for the prosecution. each state must, at its discretion, strike an appropriate balance between the right to respect for private life and the right to freedom of expression. those rights are guaranteed by the european convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms. in order to promote public resources by reducing the number of litigation cases, to promote access to justice, to guarantee the proper functioning of the internal market and to ensure a proper balance between freedom of expression and the right to privacy, i believe that the commission should carry out extensive consultations with stakeholders, including journalists, the media and specialist lawyers and judges. the aim of the project is to develop a european platform for the exchange of information on the use of the internet and the internet for the protection of personal data, in particular by means of the internet. i think this would be a significant step towards a more modern justice culture that favors mediation.
in writing. − the arab spring is the biggest political shift in the european neighbourhood since the fall of the berlin wall, providing the eu with an opportunity to align its trade and foreign policy interests with its core values such as human rights, democracy and a free society. the union has exclusive competence in trade and investment policy, and this is a key instrument enabling it to ensure an effective response to upheavals and to contribute to economic progress in the southern mediterranean countries. i consider it important that it fully coordinates its trade, investment and funding of support activities in the region in order to maximise its positive impact. given the significant number of actors within the eu, such as several commission directorates-general, member states and the european investment bank, external actors such as the partner countries themselves, the european bank for reconstruction and development, the world bank, the international monetary fund, the islamic development bank, the african development bank and even the g8, it is of the utmost importance that synergies between measures to avoid 'duplication' be ensured. the arab spring is also a challenge for the eu to make more determined efforts to liberalise trade and create investment opportunities. this strategy needs to be implemented in full cooperation with other policy areas in order to create educational opportunities for entrepreneurs, encourage participation in eu programmes and facilitate access to visas.
in writing. − intellectual property rights are important for promoting the development of new plant varieties and plant-related innovation and are an essential prerequisite for fostering growth and innovation and helping european businesses, especially smes, to face the economic crisis and global competition. in particular in the area of cultivation and breeding, over-large patent protection can impede innovation and progress and harm small and medium-sized growers and breeders by depriving them of access to animal and plant genetic resources. plant breeding is a basic prerequisite for ensuring food supplies and, to some extent, energy supplies. conventional breeding methods are essential for modern crop and livestock production. a basic principle of the international system of plant variety rights is that the holder of rights in plant varieties may not prevent others from using the protected variety for further breeding. i consider it important that a similar privilege exists in patent law throughout the european union, as patents promote the dissemination of valuable expertise and are an important tool for technology transfer.
in writing − maritime transport has been one of the key drivers of economic growth and prosperity in europe throughout its history. more than 80% of world trade is carried by sea. however, piracy poses a threat to international security and regional stability and the fight against piracy and its root causes is therefore a priority for eu action. piracy on the high seas is still not solved. it is becoming a growing threat to human life and safety of seafarers and others, as well as to regional development and stability, the marine environment, world trade, all forms of maritime transport and transport, including fishing vessels, and the provision of humanitarian aid. pirates are constantly developing their tactics and methods and have expanded the territory in which they operate by using larger hijacked ships. i believe that there is a need to seek more formal coordination of a comprehensive anti-piracy strategy among the various stakeholders in the eu. alternatively, it would be appropriate to set up an official operational group, for example under the auspices of the european external action service, involving all the authorities involved. such an eu action group concept would be promoted within the united nations security council with a view to establishing a global action group that would work closely with the international maritime organisation.
for the efd group this year marks the 20th anniversary of the creation of the single market as one of the european union's most important tools for promoting economic growth. i agree with the author of the report, mr busuttil, that ensuring the benefits of the single market for citizens and businesses does not end with the adoption of legislation. however, i believe that, in addition to improving the mechanisms for monitoring the transposition of the regulation and helping businesses to enforce their rights to benefit from the single market through support mechanisms such as the solvit internet network, the your europe portal, the european business network, the european consumer centres and the european employment service, we should also look at the work of certification bodies, which open the way to the single market for individual products. the state veterinary and food administration of my country informs the public on an almost continuous basis of the detection of food products that have entered the retail network and do not meet the required quality and health safety. you all probably remember the dioxin-contaminated eggs, pork and poultry that appeared last year in the northern federal states of germany. recently, we learned that a company in poland was packaging road maintenance salt into small packages and selling it as table salt. thus, it was introduced into bread, meat products, and canned fish. the distribution of chickens from the country of the gallic rooster, which have been marketed in my country, is also scandalous. french poultry had guts that shouldn't have been in the package, broken bones, and the gallbladder was all over the product. a similar situation was found with the packages of flakes which caused vomiting. such products, which do not belong to the common market, are appearing more and more. i therefore believe that, as part of improving the single market, we should also focus on improving the supervision of the mechanisms for placing products on our common market, in the interests of our consumers.
i think we all have an interest in having the best possible relationship with canada, which we consider to be a developed, civilized and democratic country. i am also convinced that we all respect the right of the canadian administration to determine its own conditions of entry for people from other countries coming to its territory. on the other hand, it should be noted that the economic and trade cooperation agreement, which is intended to regulate canada's cooperation with the union, will also apply to the czech republic, romania and bulgaria, and any of these countries will be able to object to the conclusion of the agreement if it feels discriminated against by canada's approach to its citizens. i therefore want to believe that the forthcoming reform of canada's asylum law will remove the concerns of canadians about the abuse of their social system by citizens of some european countries and open the way for visa-free travel to canada for all citizens of the european union.
the internal security of the european union is under attack by many threats that are spreading rapidly across europe thanks to our open borders policy. perhaps the greatest current problem for the union's internal security is the increasingly sophisticated nature of organised crime. the massive influx of economic migrants from poor countries in asia and africa, as well as the wide disparities in living standards in some regions of the union, generate exploitable potential for organising illegal black labour markets, prostitution and large-scale fraud on the social systems of richer countries. we cannot therefore ignore the interconnectedness of internal security with the political and security turbulence in our surroundings and therefore we should strive for a comprehensive european union security policy and should formulate this system in such a way as to include clear links between external impulses and internal consequences for the security of the european union. i believe that such a comprehensive approach is a prerequisite for a successful security policy within the european union.
i agree that the lisbon and maastricht treaties have defined certain preconditions for us to be able to proceed with the creation of a common european criminal law. but i would like to point out that this journey will be very difficult, complicated and very sensitive. in europe, we have a number of traditions, both social and judicial, on which the law of individual countries or regions has been built. i have already heard a complaint from my british colleague who pointed out that british island law has a different way of dealing with problems, that the rules of precedent apply there, whereas on the european mainland the rules are different. my country, for example, uses the austro-hungarian legal basis. i'm sure sweden or the nordic countries use completely different rules. so this gives rise to certain differences in legal systems that we're going to have to consider very sensitively. and i'm personally very skeptical that we'll be able to do that anytime soon.
i very much appreciate this report because the issues that are being addressed are really very serious. in particular, because turkey is applying to join the european union, we should be very careful about the rights and status of women in this country. the report is very clear and very concise and states that the legislation is more or less in order, but the application to real life is problematic. the passage in particular, where it says that husbands, friends and family members murder at least two women a day, is, i would say, shocking. the application of legislation in the field of education or women's participation in employment or politics is also highly revealing. it's about the fact that women's participation in such a life - real, economic - is very low. i would like to focus on the measures that we should be promoting as the european union and perhaps as civil society organisations. above all, we should appeal to politicians to set a personal example and behave as they are expected to. then to use the media, television, radio to promote more women's rights and protect women. and of course, this appeal to social awareness should also be reflected in the policies that are implemented in the regions, and that is, i think, the most important thing - to get these policies to the people, to the regions.
turkey has improved its legislative framework for women's rights, but the transposition of legislation into daily practice is not at a satisfactory level. violence against women therefore remains one of the most pressing issues in turkey. i find the statistics shocking, as 39% of women have experienced physical violence in their lifetime, with two to three women a day being victimized by their husband, another family member or friend. the employment rate of women, at around 24%, is closely linked to the persisting gender gap in secondary and higher education. the 14 percent share of women in the turkish parliament can also be seen as a reflection of social reality. i welcome the report on the current situation and perspectives of women in turkey, which has systematically assessed the legal situation and the reality of violence against women, as well as the actual participation of women in the labour market or in politics.
in writing of course, i also fully support the call for turkey to do more to protect women from violence. particular attention should be paid to women mothers, who are the most vulnerable. however, this report is more about the ideological prejudices of the rapporteur than about the real problems of turkey. for example, for children aged 0 to 5 years, state daycare centres are said to be better than the care of a loving mother (paragraph 30). motherhood itself is a gender stereotype and turkish journalists should be trained to keep silent about women as mothers (paragraph 66). the mothers are not included in the readings either (paragraph 33). alternative education should be prohibited if the parents do not agree to such teaching (paragraph 35). women belong in factories and fields, because a woman who drives a tractor is more than a woman who looks after children at home (paragraph 46). it's really about, and i quote, "a fundamental change in mindset".
the category of vulnerable consumers or consumers in a vulnerable situation requires special attention from the competent authorities and the development of a strategy to protect them. i agree with the approach of the rapporteur who preferred not to focus on creating a new definition of the so-called vulnerable consumer, which could become a double-edged sword. in my view, political and legislative instruments should act preventively to prevent situations where consumers' vulnerability is frequently and deliberately exploited. however, improving consumer awareness and information about their rights should also be complemented by improving information about the safety of goods and services. as regards product safety, special information campaigns should be targeted at pregnant women and children. i also support the call on the commission to make the protection of children a top priority on the consumer agenda and to analyse the impact of misleading and aggressive advertising, especially on children and adolescents whose health is regularly harmed by such advertising.
first of all, i would like to congratulate you on this report, because i really think that we need to protect children and the elderly from market risks. in this regard, i would like to focus on a practical solution that could be applied right now. we have vending machines in schools all over europe that sell sweet drinks, sweet pastries. these machines are usually placed in front of the canteens, and i can give you an example of the european school in brussels, where it is organised exactly like this. perhaps if we had a regulation, a directive, that would remove these products from vending machines and replace them with, say, fruit, it would certainly benefit those children. i would also like to draw attention to the concrete solutions that could be made in relation to food certification, because there is a need to tighten up the supervision and perhaps also the institutions that are currently working in individual countries and are not working quite well. i could remind you of the dioxin scandal in germany, when eggs, meat and meat products were poisoned. i could also mention the recent polish case of road salt, which was supposed to be used for road paving and maintenance but was repackaged and sold as table salt and found its way into meat, fish canning and the like. so, these kinds of cases wouldn't have happened if we had better and less pervasive legislation.
i support all activities that improve the business environment for smes in the union. but there is little benefit from our many programmes to support small and medium-sized enterprises. we talk a lot, we write a lot, but the effect of this work is not seen. it gets lost in the bureaucratic red tape. small businesses are often founded and run by people with only a primary or secondary education. small businesses, like businesses, therefore need simple rules for their establishment, operation, accounting and taxation. unless we impose on our governments a simple, clear scheme for running small and medium-sized businesses with minimal bureaucratic burden, officials in our countries will continue to be employed bullying small business owners. a low-level civil servant would not dare to criticize a strong large company. but it can make any small bakery or hairdresser feel its importance without shame. i am convinced that european state bureaucracies are the biggest barrier to the development of smes.
i am sure that after all that has been said here, we will agree that small and mediumsized enterprises can be seen as a pillar of the european union's economy. they also play the role of the main employer, mainly because all the big companies have their headquarters in asian countries, mainly because of the costs, which i personally consider to be socially and politically incorrect. i hope, commissioner, that we will be discussing this subject in this house in the future. however, the economic crisis has hit small and medium-sized enterprises hard. although they are currently facing a difficult period in their efforts to save, they are far more successful than larger firms and are also able to adapt more easily to market situations. but paradoxically, they're much more complicated to get financing than large companies. it is in the light of these facts and the overall enormous importance and contribution of smes to the european economy that we must focus on finding new ways of using the structural funds. we must focus on removing bureaucracy and administrative obstacles and making it easier for smes to borrow in general.
in writing at present, with all national governments making budgetary cuts, the impact on smes is palpable. many are dying off at the expense of creating a grey economy. it is therefore good that the commission also comes up with proposals for the possibilities of access to the structural funds for smes. during the crisis, the conditions for granting loans were tightened, especially for smes. therefore, increasing the capacity of loan guarantee programmes, equity fund investments and micro-credit programmes for smes is the way to develop and grow services and employment. however, the new measures also require stricter, more rigorous control of compliance with the current directives, which are intended to create conditions for smes to stabilise and grow. for example, directive 2011/7/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 16 february 2011 on combating late payment in commercial transactions. that directive requires public authorities to make a payment within 30 days. the reality is alarming: smes are forced to agree to a maturity of 2 to 4 months to get a contract, even in the public sector.
first of all, i would like to say that i expected mrs. timoshenko's daughter, whom we so graciously accepted, to be interested in our views on ukraine and her mother's imprisonment. unfortunately, she left the balcony shortly after her formal induction, and it is obvious that she is not interested in our opinions. so i'll get right to the point. objectively, it must be recognised that the continued imprisonment of former prime minister yulia tymoshenko is worsening the political atmosphere in ukraine. i dare not from this place to judge the extent of ms. tymoshenko's responsibility for economic failures in the administration of the state or the murders of her political opponents. i agree that every citizen, including yulia tymoshenko, has the right to a fair trial. ukraine is one of the european union's most important neighbours and the union's interest in the functioning of its political and judicial system is therefore understandable. however, our engagement in resolving the political disputes between the democratically elected government and the opposition political forces should not lead to further polarization of the political scene in ukraine. on the contrary, a civilised, substantive, open and private dialogue between all relevant political forces of ukraine should be our main objective for ukraine.
i have to say that i am very disappointed that we are basing the negotiations and the relations that we have with ukraine on the person of yulia tymoshenko. i'm disappointed because if we want to talk about the situation in ukraine, we should talk about it in all contexts and not tie it to one person. moreover, this person was until recently the prime minister of this country and had the opportunity to take all the measures that we now blame on the current ukrainian government. i don't mean to say that everything is fine in ukraine and that ukraine cannot tolerate substantive criticism. however, this criticism should in any case be substantive and general and should focus on measures that benefit all citizens and not just the imprisoned prime minister. in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, let me make one comment. i very much hope that ukraine will move towards the best possible relationship with the european union. but it is really not in the least bit unfair to criticize the prime minister for being accused and later on tried for mismanaging state property, because if similar measures were in place in our member countries, our citizens would appreciate it if our politicians were convicted for similar mismanagement of state property.
today's discussion is not just about yulia tymoshenko. it concerns the principles on which institutions and democracy operate in ukraine. it is also about the principles on which the eu wishes to apply its policy towards neighbouring and partner countries. yulia tymoshenko is an example of a political process that normally should not have happened at all. political and criminal responsibility should be clearly separated in every country that professes democratic values. the state institutions in ukraine should guarantee the independence and transparency of all judicial processes and not apply justice selectively against political opponents. the political struggle in ukraine should be conducted through a free and fair election campaign, not through the imprisonment of political opponents. it's not fair to play a political game with the opposition in jail, any more than it's fair to play a football game against a team in a locker room.
the concern of our socialist colleagues for the citizens is sometimes very touching. until now, i thought it was enough for consumers to have enough information and access to justice if the basic principles of the business relationship were violated. but the rapporteur convinces us in her explanatory statement that consumers either do not understand the information, or are not aware of it, or do not know how to complain. they're vulnerable and they need to be taken care of. the reporter is right about one thing. some citizens are indeed more vulnerable, such as the elderly or children. however, their vulnerability is a consequence of the weakening of family and neighbourhood ties. they need intergenerational solidarity, not bureaucrats who buy for them. i supported the report, but the problem of vulnerable citizens must be tackled in a broader context, otherwise it will only get worse and european legislation will not help.
mr president, i am a strong supporter of the promotion of human rights throughout the world, but i also believe in the principle of otherness between women and men. i abstained on this report because i do not support the ideological approach taken by the rapporteur and the committee on women's rights and gender equality. clearly, the european union, through the commission and parliament, does not respect the human nature of men and women. this report shows that the european union is seeking to change human nature in response to market demands. turkey and all the other applicant countries should be informed. this report will remain a dead letter, as will several resolutions of the committee on women's rights and gender equality. i'm sorry for what i did. i am sure that the turkish leadership will not take this resolution seriously.
in writing, the commission recommendation of december 2008 on common guidelines for national sides and the issuance of euro circulation coins sets out common principles for the designs used for national sides of euro circulation coins and for the mutual exchange of information and approval of these designs. as they circulate throughout the euro area, their national graphics processing elements are of general interest. they have a common european party and a different national party. the common european side of the coins contains the name of the single currency and the face value of the coin. the national side of euro coins should bear the name of the issuing member state in a prominent manner so that users of the coin can easily identify the issuing member state if they are interested. the designs on the national sides of the euro coins are decided by the individual participating member states. the issuing member states should inform each other of the new national sides well in advance of the intended date of issue. to this end, issuing member states should submit their designs of euro coins to the commission, which will verify their compliance with this regulation. i consider it important to amend this accordingly.
in writing − the union's internal security and security policy are among the union's policy priorities. the lisbon treaty laid the foundations for the development of the security agenda. this is shared between the european union and the member states, with democratic oversight at both eu and national level. protecting the lives and safety of european citizens is paramount. we must continuously increase security within the union by effectively combating serious and organised crime, terrorism, radicalism and extremism, cybercrime and other threats. i consider it essential to strengthen the management of external borders and to increase resilience to natural as well as man-made disasters. at the same time, all security measures must be consistent with the eu's fundamental rights commitments, targeted at law enforcement and necessarily proven to reduce crime and prevent terrorist attacks. it is also of the utmost importance to establish prevention mechanisms and mechanisms that allow us to detect the signs of a threat well in advance. the recent events of the arab spring demonstrate that the internal security of the union is inextricably linked to the security situation of countries in its neighbourhood. it is therefore necessary to develop the union's interaction with third countries and international organisations such as nato and the osce. and to take a comprehensive approach to the european security strategy.
in writing − criminal law differs from other branches in that it restricts the human rights and fundamental freedoms of the suspect, accused or convicted person. and while these restrictions are legal and legitimate, in any event the question of adequacy must be assessed with great sensitivity. in the case of legislative proposals concerning criminal law, the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality is essential. but we need to create minimum standards of protection, and at the highest possible level. union citizens must be sure that their safety is taken seriously. the harmonisation of criminal law will help member states in the fight against crime, should contribute to the development of a common legal culture and should have a positive impact on mutual trust. however, when developing new legislative instruments, we must fully respect the eu charter of fundamental rights and the international convention for the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms, as well as other international legal instruments governing the field of human rights by which individual member states are bound. on the other hand, overuse of legislation reduces the effectiveness of criminal law. the eu's fragmented approach to criminal law to date cannot be considered correct. i consider it my duty to ensure a high-quality and coherent approach, thereby maximising our common fight against serious and crossborder crime, as well as crime that threatens the objectives of the various policies of the european union.
in writing − if you have strengthening and protecting consumer rights forms the basis for the development of relevant eu policies and is important for achieving the objectives set out in the europe 2020 strategy. a consumer may be vulnerable for a number of reasons due to his mental, psychological or health disability, age, gender, intimacy, or because he is in a state of temporary helplessness caused, for example, by an adverse social or financial situation. vulnerable consumers need a special form of protection. it is important to take into account their specific needs and to strengthen their options. member states are required to take appropriate measures in this respect and to provide sufficient guarantees. the most dangerous areas where the level of vulnerability is most pronounced are energy, food, transport, financial services, access to justice, telecommunications. in order to protect vulnerable consumers, it is necessary to provide them with easily accessible and understandable information. as regards the requirement of sufficient information, i consider it necessary to draw attention to the fact that some categories of consumers are not familiar with existing complaint and redress systems, for example, especially in cases of cross-border or electronic commerce. the development of an effective strategy to strengthen and protect the rights of vulnerable consumers will ensure their fair participation in the single market, contribute to their social inclusion and, in addition, guarantee a safer, stronger and more competitive single internal market of the european union.
in writing − eu membership guarantees a high level of consumer protection by providing for the same level of safety for many types of consumer goods and by introducing measures to protect the general interests of consumers against unfair business practices, misleading advertising and unfair contractual clauses. however, within the general notion of consumers, there is a specific category of vulnerable consumers who need special protection. these include children, the elderly, people with disabilities, but also vulnerability due to language or lack of education. the development of a strategy to strengthen the rights of such vulnerable consumers is clearly necessary and i encourage the commission to proceed with it without delay.
in writing − every citizen of the european union can fall into the category of vulnerable consumers during his or her lifetime. there may be several reasons, but the most common include advanced age or physical or mental disabilities, not least children. the definition of vulnerable consumers that has been in place until now has been very general and the report by ms irigoyen perez seeks to improve this. this report therefore focuses on the most pressing areas of this issue, such as misleading television and online advertising targeted at children and young people, or the standardisation of products for the disabled. other areas include telecommunications services, especially those of mobile operators, which are increasingly targeting children and adolescents. with this type of service, it is necessary that the overview of the charges is clear, transparent and understandable to everyone. every day, we encounter cases where misleading or deceptive advertising has gotten citizens into a lot of trouble, sometimes ending in executions or complete loss of property. many companies are looking for vulnerable consumers, most often retirees, to defraud. their activities are seemingly legal but also deeply immoral. it is precisely the number of such cases that demonstrates the need to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers.
in writing - the concern of socialists for the poor citizens is very touching. until now, i thought that consumers only needed to be informed. but the rapporteur convinces us in her explanatory statement that consumers either do not understand the information, or are not aware of it, or do not know how to complain. they're vulnerable and they need to be taken care of. the reporter is right about one thing. some people are really more vulnerable - like the elderly or children. however, their vulnerability is a consequence of the weakening of family and neighbourhood ties. they need intergenerational solidarity, not bureaucrats who buy for them.
in writing − if you have the conclusions on euro coins intended for collectors, the commission recommendations on common guidelines for national parties and the issuing of euro coins intended for circulation and the commission recommendations on the scope and effects of euro banknotes and coins as legal tender lay down the best practices on collector euro coins, the issuing of euro coins intended for circulation, including commemorative circulation coins, and consultation before the destruction of euro circulation coins in circulation. the lack of binding provisions on the issuance of euro coins may lead to different practices in the member states, resulting in a poorly integrated framework for the single currency. in the interests of legal transparency and certainty, it is therefore necessary to introduce binding rules on the issuance of euro coins. in line with common practices in participating member states, it is appropriate that euro circulation coins, including commemorative circulation coins, are put into circulation at face value, even if a smaller proportion of the coins can be sold at a higher price if they are produced at a higher quality or are supplied in special packaging. in order to prevent the destruction of valid euro circulation coins by one member state, whereas in another member state these coins may be needed, i consider it justified that member states consult each other before destroying such coins.
in writing - the introduction of the one- and two-euro banknotes should have been much earlier. it was mainly requested by citizens from member states with lower labour costs and therefore lower wages and prices. we in this parliament have also asked for it, when we adopted mrs sartori's written statement back in 2005. but before governments and the commission could appreciate money more, a crisis had to come. as i did seven years ago, i am fully in favour of the introduction of new banknotes. but i also believe that the argument for the introduction of new banknotes has been supplemented by a new one. the one- and two-euro banknotes will help many people affected by the crisis to cope better with the need to save. a banknote is a symbol of a higher value to a man. it is only natural to pay more attention to whether and how it passes.
in writing − the european union is currently experiencing the worst economic crisis since its inception. this crisis threatens the very foundations of the european economy. the best tool we have to restore growth to the economies of the member states is the internal market. several instruments have been created to encourage the completion of the single market and to determine the contributions of individual member states to this end. one such tool is the evaluation of the performance of the internal market. this instrument encourages member states to improve the quality and timeliness of transposition of internal market directives. in its latest assessment of the internal market's performance, the european commission highlighted malta as having the best record in terms of timely transposition of eu directives, while the czech republic was at the bottom of the list, although it was making some progress. ensuring a single market for citizens and businesses does not end with good legislation. it also includes appropriate implementation and cross-border cooperation between different national administrations. without such implementation, businesses and citizens cannot reap the benefits of the single market. i believe that more vigorous efforts are needed in the enforcement of european legislation and that it is equally important to report more clearly on infringement proceedings initiated. the wider involvement of the institutions and national administrations of the member states is also needed to ensure the correct and timely transposition and implementation of the internal market directives.
in writing − this year marks the 20th anniversary of the single market. in 2011, the single market act was adopted. a number of instruments have also been created to encourage the full functioning of the single market, including the evaluation of its results. ensuring the single market does not end with good legislation, but also requires proper implementation and cross-border cooperation between countries. the commission has set up the solvit information network to address in a timely and effective manner the problems caused to citizens by the incorrect application of internal market rules. the commission is considering a specific legal basis for this network, including the allocation of appropriate resources to improve its functioning. i fully support these intentions.
written − turkey is a party to the convention on the elimination of all forms of discrimination against women (cedaw) and its optional protocol, and has also committed itself to respect human rights, including women's rights and gender equality. however, its progress in reforming the legal framework to ensure equal participation of women in social, economic and political life is still limited. turkish women face discrimination and violence on a daily basis, their human rights and fundamental freedoms are violated. there are honor killings, forced marriages, child marriages, gender-based crimes. the ineffectiveness of existing remedies and the permissiveness of the turkish authorities is striking and the situation in the country is thus assuming alarming dimensions. if turkey is to become a truly full-fledged pluralistic democracy, based on the principle of respecting and protecting human rights and fundamental freedoms of men and women without any distinction, there must be a total reassessment of the deeply held values regarding the role of women in society. until turkey is able to ensure the full protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms for all its citizens, until it meets the copenhagen criteria, until it ensures democracy and the rule of law on its territory, it cannot in any case be a full member of the european union.
written − the european parliament has approved the report on the draft regulation on the citizens' initiative by a large majority, a result which clearly demonstrates the strong consensus on this new instrument of participatory democracy at european level. the citizens' initiative will be a powerful tool at the disposal of european citizens to identify topics to be included in the union agenda. it was introduced by the treaty establishing a constitution for europe and later taken over by the treaty of lisbon and aims to give citizens the same powers of political initiative as the council of ministers and the european parliament. its purpose is, in particular, to provide citizens with a means of being heard by enabling them to put forward to the european institutions certain topics of interest to them. it is essentially complementary to the direct link between citizens and institutions, while ensuring that the european union institutions examine specific problems that citizens consider important. however, i think it is important to mention that not all successful initiatives lead to a commission legislative proposal. the commission retains the exclusive right to submit legislative proposals and ultimately decides on the measures to be taken following successful citizens' initiatives. the success of the public hearing by parliament will be able to contribute to the success of the citizens' initiative, but cannot guarantee it.
in writing, the european initiative as a new instrument of democracy has been running for almost three months and six applications are currently under process. it gave eu citizens the right to be directly involved in the process of european legislation. today, the citizens' initiative is a bit of a hit, but i'm a little worried that interest in the initiative will gradually decline after a short time. people may be displeased if the commission registers the initiative and, after collecting millions of signatures, finally rejects it. in this context, it is natural that parliament will do its utmost to respond to citizens' initiatives. i therefore welcome the proposal to create a single point of contact, as well as the requirement that the commission be represented during the public hearing by the commissioner responsible for the area. i take it for granted that the necessary technological and information infrastructure is in place.
in writing a successful exit from the crisis depends on the closest possible coordination in the economic field. so let's focus on making it competitive, connected and greener. in the light of the current shocks, increasing competitiveness and job creation is a priority. we have set a target of 75% of the population aged 20-64 being employed, but a high employment rate should be taken for granted. if we really want this to happen, then the states must join our efforts. the objectives need to be kept in mind when taking action not only at pan-european level. europe's growth deficit is seriously threatening our future. at this point, we must fight together to help europe out of the crisis. we cannot achieve growth and jobs without cooperation and investment. growth and job creation depend on healthy and well-connected markets, where competition and consumers stimulate entrepreneurship and innovation. the union must become a more attractive place for investment. let us not forget smes, the driving force of the european economy. let us not forget the scientific research that is essential for productivity growth. cutting costs alone won't help us get through the crisis. these particularly affect the most vulnerable groups of eu citizens, who are ultimately the most affected by the crisis. let's fight the crisis in the spirit of modern social democracy.
mr. minister, commissioner, i'm very pleased with your comments. if you will allow me, i will not talk about countries outside the european union now, because we have a problem with homophobia in the member states of the european union as well. not so long ago, maybe a few days ago, last week, a member of the national council of the parliament of my country spoke in the plenary about homosexuals, saying that they are sick people who should be locked up somewhere and treated. so let's not pretend that it exists outside the european union, it exists in our own countries -- the member states of the european union. i'm always surprised by such comments because when i meet someone, i don't ask about their sexual orientation. when i choose my friends, i don't ask them what they do in terms of their sexual orientation. i always try to make my friends and people i talk to decent people - people who may share my outlook on life. so i am very sorry that even today, in the present time, it is lgbt people who are being attacked not only by extremists but also by politicians in the individual member states of the european union. my view is that if the member states cannot regulate same-sex marriage, it would be appropriate to regulate it at the level of the european union. it is high time, because it is quite evident that the individual member states of the european union are unable to cope with this agenda.
sustainable fishing for bluefin tuna, as well as other commercially exploited fish, logically implies that we must respect safe biological limits to preserve the natural balance of marine waters. further reductions in the tacs are likely to be necessary, but i believe that a successful recovery plan requires the correct identification and subsequent protection of the nets and the support of the control measures in place. more detailed monitoring of international trade, together with proper documentation of all catches in this area, will clearly contribute to limiting the influx of illegal, unreported and unregulated fisheries.
thank you, mrs de sarnez, for this excellent report. it says a few things. first, if china respected the value of human life and cared about the environment, there would be no trade balance between china and the eu. second, if china were a trusted partner, we would have hope that negotiations and agreements would resolve this imbalance. third, even the chinese communists have understood that investment without ideology is more effective in africa than development aid conditional on adopting the donor ideology. fourth, if we hadn't been living on debt for years, we might have done something, but since china is lending us money, we can just talk about it, and quietly. and fifth, this is the first official document that says directly that the europe 2020 strategy is similar to the 12th five year plan of the chinese communists. congratulations to all of you.
question asked by raising the blue card i want to ask mr. bloom, does he not think that if we use the financial transaction tax to restrict the high-frequency transactions that have contributed to the current crisis, that it will not be a benefit for the entire financial system?
the financial transaction tax is emerging as a new potential source of revenue for the european union budget. the general argument that wealthy banking houses profiting from citizens' savings should be in solidarity with their clients seems at first sight to be defensible. however, there are a number of complications in applying this idea. our financial experts cannot agree on the items that should be included in the basis of this tax. all questions are justified as to what consequences the introduction of the new tax may have on pension funds, foreign exchange transactions, but also on high-frequency transactions. in addition to the complications of defining the tax base, the question of the geographical scope of its application remains open. it is clear from the positions of our major trading partners that this will not be the case on a global scale. we also do not agree that the tax should be applied throughout the european union. the question then arises whether the decision to use this tax should not be left to the member states alone and the disputed profits should not be transferred to the union budget.
with today's vote, the european parliament can send a very strong signal not only to the council and to the representatives of those member states who reject this important step, but above all to its own citizens, because until now it has been the citizens of the member states of the european union who have relied on the debt relief of the banking sector. the introduction of a financial transaction tax can be of great importance in addressing the very consequences of the crisis not only in individual member states but also for the overall budget of the european union. it will therefore be very important how the tax thus collected is distributed to the common budget and how the contributions of the individual member states of the european union are reduced. however, i believe that by introducing this system we could raise almost eur 57 billion a year and the system will further strengthen the functioning of the single market. it also eliminates distortions of competition and discourages financial institutions from risky and speculative activities.
the global crisis spread rapidly and ruthlessly to the real economies, with a particularly severe impact on employment. to remedy this, governments across europe have been able to maintain the balance only through significant austerity. the financial sector, as one of the main causes of the crisis, has received significant state aid, but it can be said that it has not yet contributed adequately to the costs of the crisis. given this, the introduction of a financial transaction tax has become one of the most important issues of our time. it is able to regulate the spectacularly increased financial transactions and speculative operations that are largely detached from the real economy. it could generate new revenues of some eur 57 billion, making a major contribution to stabilising markets and fair burden sharing. i think we should support the introduction of a global financial transaction tax. the european union today represents the largest financial market in the world, and as such it is our responsibility to take the first steps in this direction.
in writing the financial sector was one of the main drivers of the financial crisis. people from all countries have come together to save the financial sector and overcome the consequences of the crisis. the eu is facing a crisis which has also resulted in increases in direct and indirect taxation, and sharp cuts in wages and pensions. the financial sector is the only one still largely exempt from taxation of its activities and transactions. it can't continue to work like this, where someone is profiting in good times and bad times, and people are always paying the price. what we're trying to do is actually an indirect tax, so it doesn't punish or penalize the residents. however, this tax is so low that the concerns raised here are not justified. already today, nine countries in europe have a financial transaction tax in place in some form, and the result is not financial leakage. high-frequency trading has no productive impact and seriously disrupts market prices and the functioning of our economies. the role of the financial sector is to support the real economy, sustainable growth, employment, productive investment, not speculation and risk. the financial transaction tax project, in addition to higher income for countries, can lead to higher growth of economies and will lay the foundations of a mechanism to eliminate the emergence of further crises.
investigative powers are among the standard powers of the various democratic parliaments in the world. the interest in enabling legislators to obtain a true picture of reality stems from the need for a correct legislative response to social reality. the scope of the powers of inquiry is of course linked to the political importance of the parliament concerned, and the european parliament is gradually maturing, to which the adoption of the treaty of lisbon has contributed significantly. it has further democratized the european union, as the institutional balance has shifted towards the european parliament directly representing the citizens of the european union. the proposed draft regulation therefore seems to me to be appropriate in view of the new status of the european parliament and the powers deriving from the treaty on the functioning of the european union.
in writing. − the international commission for the conservation of atlantic tunas (iccat) amended its multiannual recovery plan for the eastern bluefin tuna stock in november 2010. as the eu is a contracting party to iccat, it has an obligation to transpose these amendments into eu law. the history of bluefin tuna fisheries management is long and complex. although bluefin tuna have been fished for thousands of years, the real problems arose in the 1990s when the practice of caging and fattening bluefin tuna for the japanese market was introduced. the bluefin tuna fishery is the most highly regulated fishery in the eu and probably among the most highly regulated fisheries in the world. but its hunt is unusual in several ways. what makes it unusual is the extraordinary price of this fish in the market, and the degree of concentration of the market in one country japan. this has led to a combination of purse-seine fishing and tuna fattening operations playing a dominant role in the fishery. i believe that extensive management and control measures are needed in the recovery plan, as well as a detailed catch documentation programme to monitor international trade. in many cases, iccat members simply do not have sufficient resources to control fisheries. political will is often lacking. the result is annual changes to the recovery plan and the catch documentation programme. moreover, the iccat recovery plan is less ambitious than eu legislation.
in writing − if you have the accelerated introduction of double or equivalent hull design requirements for single hull oil tankers is a very important issue. oil spills caused by tanker accidents are a major environmental disaster and a tragedy for marine life. in an effort to protect the environment and learn from past mistakes, the steps leading to the accelerated introduction of double hulls for oil tankers are also reducing the risk of hydrocarbon pollution causing accidents in european waters. in single-hull vessels, the oil in the transport tanks is separated from the seawater only by the plate forming the bottom and sides of the vessel. in the event of damage to this sheet due to a collision or a crash, the contents of the transport tanks may be spilled into the sea and cause widespread pollution. an effective means of eliminating this risk is to cover the transport tank with a second inner sheet at a sufficient distance from the outer sheet. this 'double hull' design protects the transport tanks against accident and reduces the risk of water pollution. i therefore consider it justified to put into practice in the foreseeable future the design requirements for double or equivalent hulls for single hull oil tankers mentioned above.
in writing − if you have after lengthy and difficult negotiations, a new protocol between the european union and the republic of mozambique was concluded in june 2011. it shall be valid until 31 december 2014 and provides for an annual contribution of eur 980 000 from the union budget, of which eur 520 000 relates to access for european vessels to the fishing zone of mozambique and eur 460 000 is intended to support the sectoral policy of mozambique. a total of 75 union vessels were granted access, 43 trawlers and 32 surface longliners. the member states concerned by these fishing opportunities are: spain, france, portugal and the united kingdom. relations between the european community and the republic of mozambique in the fisheries sector are longstanding. the agreement with mozambique is strategic in that it guarantees the continuity of the fishing area for the european fleet in the indian ocean and can be an excellent alternative in view of the increasing number of cases of piracy in other exclusive economic zones further north. one of the objectives of the european community and mozambique is to promote economic, scientific and technological cooperation in the field of fisheries and all related sectors, with a view to establishing cooperation that would allow the development of a sustainable fisheries policy and the responsible exploitation of fisheries resources in the interests of both parties.
in writing, the european commission has proposed the creation of a financial transaction tax at eu level. the union is in the midst of an economic and financial crisis and effective instruments must be sought to combat it. the introduction of a financial transaction tax system is one of the effective tools to overcome the crisis. the tax is to be levied on all financial transactions between financial institutions, at least one of which is established in an eu member state. it is more than clear that the financial sector, which has been so far under-taxed by the exemption of most financial services from vat, simply has to contribute a much fairer share. the new financial transaction tax system will involve financial institutions in the costs associated with the crisis and prevent the collapse of the internal market for financial transactions. the introduction of the scheme would raise about eur 57 billion a year, the revenues would be shared between the eu and the member states, and part of the proceeds would become a source of the union's own revenue. this would reduce the national contributions of countries to the eu budget. moreover, the scheme will strengthen the functioning of the single market. it eliminates distortions of competition, discourages financial institutions from risky and speculative financial operations and complements regulatory measures aimed at preventing future crises. i believe that the financial sector must contribute equitably to overcoming the crisis in europe.
in writing − the commission proposal for a common system of financial transaction tax states that over the last ten years there has been a huge increase in financial transactions and a shift from long-term investments to investments targeting short-term objectives and highly speculative and risky transactions, e.g. high-frequency trading. this clearly demonstrates the shift of the financial sector's main role from financing the needs of the real economy to activities that have no productive impact and can seriously distort market prices and the functioning of economies. in my view, however, the proposal to tax these transactions may bring considerable resources, but these are also transferred to the cost of banking services through other channels and do not reduce the volume of speculative transactions. at the same time, it is unlikely that uniform application of the directive will be ensured across the eu. i have therefore not supported the proposal at this stage.
in writing. - the financial crisis hangs over the eu like a sword of damocles. we record all its aspects, we name its causes, we see its consequences every day. for years, it has seemed that we lacked the courage and determination to make bold decisions so that the financial crisis would not become a social crisis. twenty-five million unemployed people dramatically open up the social scissors. people have high hopes that after so many proclamations of growth and jobs, there will finally be the resources to fulfill them. the financial sector reform has drained public resources, which are consequently lacking in education, health and social systems. i supported the directive because it is high time to send a signal to citizens that we are interested in generating resources that affect jobs and growth. the financial transaction tax and the expected revenue of eur 57 billion will certainly provide a good starting point for growth in the euro area, for example, by enabling businesses to access capital or loans for entrepreneurs.
written − the european union is the main destination for chinese exports and it is china that is the second largest partner of the union. however, bilateral trade has been unbalanced in recent years. i believe it is essential to adapt the eu-china trade relationship to the current economic situation. the trade imbalance between the two regions is unacceptable. the shift of production of many types of consumer goods to china has caused job losses, a significant drop in prices, and thus relatively low inflation. after china joined the wto in 2011, it should have followed the rules related to the liberalisation of its trade and the opening up of its markets, but the results are more than unsatisfactory. the chinese government's interventionist industrial policy, the unclear system of rules in terms of their application, the inadequate protection of intellectual property and other non-tariff and technical barriers prevent european companies from entering the chinese market. it is more than necessary that we restore fair competition and ensure a level playing field for all. i believe that a new, balanced trade agreement should be negotiated, which would provide a more favourable environment for european investors, while guaranteeing transparency in the management of chinese companies investing in the eu. it is important to improve coordination between individual member states and at the same time our bilateral relations with china must not weaken the eu's position towards this country.
in writing, the chinese economy has been growing at nearly 10 percent a year for 30 years. by mid-century, china will be the world's most powerful economy. the eu's trade deficit with china increased from eur 49 billion in 2000 to eur 169 billion in 2010. the currency dumping of the yuan has allowed china to accumulate usd 3 200 billion in foreign exchange reserves, with the extent of china's penetration into the eu in terms of investment and purchases of government bonds unclear. recently, china has declared that it needs the growth of its trading partners to support its own economic development. this can be the basis for further developing eu-china trade relations. the 1985 cooperation agreement needs to be updated, but a new investment agreement needs to be prepared, with the eu being given access to chinese public procurement on the same terms as the eu. i fully agree with those principles.
in writing − the eu's trade deficit, the main destination for chinese exports, has more than tripled over the last decade. reflecting on the competitive advantages and difficulties of the european union and its member states is therefore appropriate and a natural prerequisite for developing a coherent strategy towards the new world power and, closely linked to this, for developing a more ambitious eu industrial and trade policy. the growth of the chinese economy and the successful strategies of chinese companies abroad should also be a reason for the revival of innovative solutions in the eu, so that the union can maintain its leadership in a globalised world. i regret the lack of protection of intellectual property rights in china, which is damaging the european economy and in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. the controversial acta does not contribute to a solution in this respect, as china did not even participate in the negotiations. the reasons are perhaps suggested by statistics from 2010, when the eu seized at its external borders some 103 million products suspected of infringing intellectual property rights, worth a total of eur 1.11 billion, of which 85% originated in china. i am convinced that eu-china relations must in future be based on strict adherence to the principle of reciprocity, which in economic relations means respecting the rules of competition and fair access to public procurement.
written - the rhetoric coming out of beijing in recent years clearly shows that china is genuinely concerned about the unfavourable economic developments in europe, most notably the debt crisis. the chinese economy is mainly export oriented and the european union is the largest trading power and the main destination of chinese exports. china is the eu's second largest trading partner, after the united states. it follows logically that china needs the economic growth of its trading partners in order to support its own economic development. unfortunately, european companies still cannot invest in china under the same conditions as chinese investments in europe. despite chinese progress in reducing trade barriers to access the chinese market, many barriers remain, as evidenced by the report of the eu chamber of commerce in china. the report shows that as many as 43% of ceos of european companies in china believe that the measures taken by the chinese government are discriminatory against them. europe and china need each other. in this spirit, a new phase in eu-china trade relations must be launched, based on a partnership of equals, mutual benefit and common development. this is the principle of reciprocity that europeans have long called for.
in writing − the power of inquiry is an important feature of the powers of scrutiny exercised by parliament. democratic parliaments around the world exercise this power in different ways. in most eu member states, the establishment of committees of inquiry is determined and regulated by the constitution, law or regulation. the treaty of lisbon has now shifted the institutional balance of the union and strengthened the political importance of parliament. article 14 teu clearly states that parliament exercises political control. the treaty also amends the procedure for determining the provisions on the exercise of powers of inquiry. although in the past this was a joint decision of the three main european institutions, the treaty of lisbon clearly gives parliament the right of initiative. however, it still needs to receive the formal approval of the council and the commission. however, as the european parliament is not a court, as such it does not have the power to impose penalties on individual citizens. however, by adopting the treaty of lisbon, all member states also agreed to give it the right to investigate breaches of rules and cases of maladministration in the implementation of union law. i am of the opinion that this should bind them to be able to force their public administration systems to provide assistance to any ep committee of inquiry. at the same time, i consider it right that the final power to take a decision should, however, be vested in parliament, irrespective of the powers conferred on the committee of inquiry for the performance of its duties.
in writing the right of the ep to set up temporary committees of inquiry to investigate suspected breaches of community law or maladministration was raised to primary law by the maastricht treaty. however, since the adoption of the interinstitutional agreement on this matter in 1995, the ep has set up only three committees of inquiry. the powers of these committees have been found to be limited and to require reform. the committees of inquiry must have sufficient resources, access to all the necessary documents and information, and the possibility of summoning any person needed. failure by persons and institutions to comply with obligations should lead to appropriate penalties. the outcome of the inquiry is to be a draft of the remedy as well as a report to the ep. i have endorsed and supported these principles.
in writing − if you have until the treaty of lisbon strengthened the powers of this parliament, committees of inquiry were as useful to us as bicycles are to fish. it's a great invention, but it only works under certain conditions. two of them are absolutely crucial the ability to use the pedals and the art of keeping balance. the treaty of lisbon fulfilled the first condition. it gave parliament greater powers in the use of committees of inquiry as a tool of democratic control. the proposed regulation, based on these powers, regulates the functioning of the committees. the second condition is to maintain balance. political and institutional. i consider the text proposed to be balanced, although practice may show that some of its provisions will need to be amended. but now it's important that we put it into practice as soon as possible.
our support for the creation of a new independent state in south sudan is bringing the first unintended consequences of that country's independence. the border disputes also include the oil field around the town of hedgehog, and an attempt to take control of the disputed area by south sudanese troops has been called illegal by un secretary-general ban ki-moon, who has called for the withdrawal of militants from the region. although the south sudanese government has withdrawn its troops from the area, sudanese president omar al-bashir has threatened to close the transit pipeline that carries south sudanese oil to port sudan on the red sea coast. the south sudanese government has no other means of transporting oil and is therefore completely dependent on the generosity of its northern partner and neighbor. in such a situation, it is incomprehensible that the highest representatives of both countries cannot find a common peaceful solution to the dispute and increase the poverty and suffering of their citizens by irreconcilable military conflicts. we must therefore help them and put more pressure on the regimes in khartoum and juba to resolve their disputes at the negotiating table and in accordance with international law.
mr president, on 12 april the world received some not very surprising news from the african continent. since 1998 the military in guinea-bissau have managed four coups d’état, all in the name of stability and security. the results are exactly the contrary of the stated goals. the country, the region and the whole continent are less stable and less secure, and prone to more poverty, unrest and violence. this vicious cycle must be stopped and reversed. guinea-bissau needs outside help. the economic community of west african states, the united nations, the african union and the european union must and should help. stabilisation of the country must be a priority. effective rule of law, improved education and social cohesion will stimulate more investment and growth. that is the path all stakeholders must pursue. if guinea-bissau’s military really care about their citizens, they should provide a leading role. if not, the international community must impose sufficient pressure to achieve the necessary changes. baroness ashton’s statement of 23 april strongly condemning this coup d’état is one of the first steps in the right direction.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on a very well-done job. this continuation of the current rate of inefficient use of natural resources is not sustainable in the long term and is irresponsible towards the poorest sections of the population, but also has negative effects on the environment and brings high losses to businesses and the economy. everyone knows that europe does not have enough natural resources and that it needs to manage them much better. the economic and financial crisis also suggests that europe urgently needs new sources and ways of sustainable economic growth. the need for a new strategic, even visionary approach for the union in the 21st century is evident.
i welcome the commission's programme to help change the high level of youth unemployment by redirecting unused funds from the structural funds to new projects to increase their employment. however, i think it is very important to focus on the specific measures and programmes that the commission wants to support. the very fact that a financial contribution is intended to be paid to the employer for the wages of a young person who has been hired may lead to the speculative dismissal of older workers with the intention of obtaining from the union this contribution for young people's jobs. i think that support should only be given where it is clearly demonstrated that these are newly created jobs for young people that will be sustainable in the long term and provide young people with stable employment with the prospect of further professional growth. we should not be talking about populist spending of taxpayers' money, but about a real solution to a serious problem.
i wonder why so many young people are unemployed today. the real problem is not a lack of labour market readiness but the inability of enterprises to recruit new staff. this is due to the low competitiveness of an increasing number of european firms. in many cases, this is linked to the rising costs resulting from a combination of high taxes, europe's unilateral commitment to reduce co2 emissions, but above all from high social demands on workers that are not balanced by productivity. everyone wants german salaries, german hospitals, german pensions, but no one cares that he doesn't give german performance.
rapporteur. − madam president, we can all agree that the gender pay gap should be closed. the question is how? back on 8 march 2010, 10 young female members of the european parliament requested a legislative initiative report on equal pay for equal work, pursuant to rule 42 of the rules of procedure. under this rule, parliament may request the commission to submit a proposal for a new act or to amend the old one. there is a new legal basis here: article 157 of the lisbon treaty and the secondary legislation in force. directive 2006/54 on the implementation of the principle of equal opportunities and equal treatment of men and women in matters of employment and occupation – the so-called recast directive – replaced directive 75/117 on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women. even though the deadline for transposition of the recast directive was in 2008, legal experts are of the opinion that only small or no profound changes have been made in member states’ legislation, and that no sanctions have been taken against employers under the directive’s provisions. there is only slow progress. the gender pay gap is currently 16.4% – varying from 4.5% up to 25.5% in individual member states – yet legislation has been in force for almost 40 years. it is obviously not efficient. the question is what to do with an inefficient piece of legislation? we are aware that legislation itself is not enough to tackle the issue, but experience shows that legislation can be improved and better enforced. the gender pay gap is a complex and multifaceted issue with multiple causes, including social and economic factors, such as occupational and sectoral segregation in the labour market, the undervaluing of women’s work, an imbalance between work and private life, and traditions and stereotypes such as the choice of educational paths and employment patterns, to mention only some of them. the explanations account for only half the difference: the remainder is considered as a difference caused by direct and indirect discrimination. what is more, statistics show that the gender pay gap is apparent after women’s return to the labour market following the birth of a first child, and that it grows with age, because of career breaks, but also with educational level. for these reasons, the answer has to be holistic and multi-level. it has to combine legislative and non-legislative measures, both of which are essential. our aim in this report was to identify those areas in legislation where improvement can be made. since the commission has an obligation under article 32 of the recast directive to review the directive and, if appropriate, to propose amendments in 2013, we call on the commission to address the unjust discrimination against women and to make the legislation on diminishing the gender pay gap more effective. improvements based on the best practices of various member states are also requested in selected areas. equal work or work of equal value has to be regarded equally whether it is done by men or women. no excuse can be acceptable.
thank you, mrs. bauer, for your tireless efforts to change the status of women in this issue. the problem of unequal pay has persisted for several decades because neither the commission nor the member states have understood it correctly. they are based on an incomplete answer to the fundamental question of why women actually earn less than men, even when they are in a comparable job. if the reason for this situation were simply the widespread prejudice that women are less productive workers than men, the solution would be to introduce financial penalties and stricter controls on employers. but it's not like that. it's more complicated than that. the real reason is that most women have two jobs: one at work and one at home. getting the man involved in housework is not an absolute solution. nor should pressure on a woman to relinquish her motherly responsibilities to the state be the solution to this natural situation. it is rather to consider whether the unpaid work of a woman mother today is not more valuable to society than if we make her a tractor driver or a manager who will behave like a man in her position if the situation requires it. she will put work before everything else, knowing that her children will be raised by complete strangers from infancy.
despite the fact that various steps are constantly being taken and resources are being spent to address the pay gap, we are making extremely slow progress. it is incredible that even today in some member states of the european union this gap is close to 28%, and in many countries it is still widening. women have to work on average, say, until march 2 this year to earn on average the same wage as men for the calendar year ending december 31. it's hard to believe it's been over two months. these differences stem from direct and indirect discrimination and many other factors. however, we need to improve and simplify the procedures and mechanisms to defend the principle of equal pay for equal work and to prohibit any form of gender discrimination. the commission should also review directive no 54 of 2006, in particular because it does not provide for any sanctions against employers. member states should also aim to increase the transparency of remuneration. commissioner, women are among the groups of society most affected by precarious employment and the effects of the economic and social crisis. i would therefore very much like the commission to take action as soon as possible to eliminate this discrimination.
it is sad that, despite the efforts of the european parliament over many years, discrimination against the vulnerable sections of our population in employment and legal relations still occurs in many countries of the european union. the fact that workers are entitled to equal pay for equal work regardless of age, race, or gender appears to be still unknown to many employers. it is therefore appropriate to continue to seek effective mechanisms to help eliminate unjustified gender pay gaps. however, we have all agreed for some time that the excessive administrative burden on smes in the union is already bordering on bullying. i would therefore suggest that we do not impose additional administrative burdens on smes through this report and that we transfer responsibility for implementing the measure proposed in point 2.3 of part ii of the analysis of the situation and transparency of the results for the public institutions, tax authorities or social insurance companies, which should already have all the necessary data on the wage policy of employers and the employment contracts of their employees.
the rapporteur. − i would like to thank the speakers for their valuable comments and the shadow rapporteurs for their active work. let me just make a few comments. i am very grateful to the commissioner for pointing out that the question of the wage gap is also linked to economic growth and that in 1957 - and i would like to emphasise this - the question of equal pay was not included in the treaty of rome for the sake of equal opportunities or human rights, but as a formulation of equal conditions of economic competition. but beyond that, it's not just an economic issue, it's not just a social issue, it's not just a human rights issue in the first place, but it does have a very far-reaching consequence, and that's what i tried to point out in the report, which is that the first big difference comes after the birth of the first child. it is true that today we are busy with the economic crisis from morning till night, but little is said about the fact that europe is in a deep demographic crisis. what message are we sending by saying that we have a law here that has targeted the wage gap for 50 years and it's not working? i understand the skepticism of my conservative colleagues, but the main issue is that we have a law here that is over 40 years old, we have a principle here that is over 50 years old, and it doesn't work. it's obviously not working. our job is that, even though each actor has a role to play in this area, our job is to look at what can be done in the area of legislation. and i think that's a question that we can't avoid here.
the decision of the swiss authorities in april this year to introduce quantitative quotas on the number of residence permits in switzerland for citizens of eight european union countries violates the agreements that switzerland has signed with the european union in order to enjoy the common benefits of the single market. according to our legal service, the swiss authorities have no legal basis for this measure and the european commission should therefore open negotiations with the swiss partners on the violation of international agreements, in particular the agreement on the free movement of persons of june 1999. i can't believe the swiss authorities are unaware of the possible consequences of their adventurous actions. if the swiss side were to question its contractual basis with the european union merely to avoid having to fulfil its legal obligations towards the union, it would also lose the benefits of cooperation with the european union. i therefore believe that the commission must remind its swiss partners more strongly of its commitments and, of course, ask for the amendment of this regulation.
on 18 april, the swiss government announced that it had unilaterally decided to re-introduce immigration quotas for citizens of eight european union countries, including my country, the slovak republic. moreover, the government indicated that it would review the programme before its expiry in april 2013 and consider extending it for another year. the swiss government is thus in breach of the bilateral agreement between the swiss confederation and the european union as amended by the 2004 protocol. this is discriminatory and the prohibition of discrimination between citizens of the european union is also laid down in article 21 (3) of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. the commission notes that the new rules on the right of residence and the right to free movement of workers are not compatible with the internal market. another negative aspect of the decision is that the countries concerned were not informed in advance of this measure. switzerland cannot unilaterally benefit from cooperation with the union and prevent union citizens from benefiting from the swiss economy. i want to thank my colleagues from the non-affected countries for their solidarity and support.
written − eu macrofinancial assistance started in 1990 as macro-economic assistance to third countries experiencing short-term balance of payments difficulties. a total of 55 macro-financial assistance decisions have been approved so far, benefiting 23 countries, for a total of eur 7.2 billion in grants and loans or a combination of both. the eu has so far adopted macrofinancial assistance decisions on the basis of the so-called geneva criteria of october 2002, which have been subject to individual legislative decisions. the ep considered this situation unsatisfactory and in its 2003 resolution called for the development of a regulatory framework, the commission's proposal therefore comes as a direct response to this requirement. in its staff working document, the commission expressed concern about the current state of individual legislative decisions, in particular with regard to the mandatory eight-week consultation of national parliaments. although macro-financial assistance is a valuable contribution to macroeconomic stability in the eu's neighbouring countries, current practices rather reduce its effectiveness and transparency. i believe that certain changes will be required to establish clear rules and to simplify and make macro-financial assistance decision-making more efficient. however, i consider it unacceptable to remove parliamentary control over macro-financial assistance altogether and to introduce implementing acts for it.
in writing - as regards the situation in ukraine, i believe that it is necessary to communicate in a broader context and not to link the current situation with the person of yulia tymoshenko. i'm disappointed in the situation. indeed, all the measures that the european union is now condemning or blaming on the ukrainian government were taken by the former prime minister and leader of the opposition. if we are criticizing ukraine, this criticism should be justified and objective, aimed at measures for the benefit of all citizens of the country and ultimately not only for the benefit of the imprisoned yulia tymoshenko. it is right to make efforts to build the best possible relationship between the european union and ukraine. however, in my opinion, there is no reason to criticise the fact that the former prime minister was accused and subsequently tried for mismanagement of state property. if similar measures were in place in our member states, i am deeply convinced that european citizens would appreciate the condemnation of leading politicians for such improper and irresponsible use of state property.
in writing the case of former ukrainian prime minister yulia tymoshenko has successfully captured the attention of local and international media. ms timoshenko was a leading opposition figure and at the same time became one of the symbols of the orange revolution in ukraine. last year, ms. tymoshenko was placed under house arrest on charges of corruption related to the conclusion of an allegedly unfavorable contract for the import of russian gas. the european union and the international community have accused the current government of president yanukovych of politicizing the process. the shadow of suspicion falls on the current president primarily due to conflicts with tymoshenko's past. she was unsuccessful in the 2010 presidential election as yanukovych's opponent, and subsequently accused him of falsifying the election results. it is not easy to assess the correctness and legality of the actions of the ukrainian courts. however, the case has taken such a turn in recent months that it has drawn into the discussion the planned european football championship (euro 2012). the football championship should not be associated with such a political cause, and i therefore agree with commissioner fullem, who also stated that this event should be linked primarily to sport and not to politics. i firmly believe that this case will be resolved in a way that does not further jeopardise eu-ukraine relations.
written − the european union is founded on the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities. the eu will promote and uphold these values in its relations with its member states and the rest of the world. homophobia is an irrational fear and aversion to people of different sexual orientation based on prejudices such as racism, xenophobia, anti-semitism, and sexism. this attitude is manifested in both the private and public spheres and takes various forms and shapes, such as hate speech and incitement to discrimination, ridicule and verbal, psychological and physical violence, persecution and murder, discrimination contrary to the principle of equal treatment and unjustified and disproportionate restriction of rights. the european commission has committed itself to ensuring respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms in the eu, and its representatives have said that homophobia should have no place in europe. however, it continues to manifest itself, in hidden or overt forms, in the member states and in third countries. i find it regrettable that even in the european union the fundamental rights of people with a different sexual orientation are still not fully respected. any discrimination, expression of hatred or violence on grounds of sexual orientation or gender identity is to be condemned.
in writing − if you have the number of people on our planet is projected to increase to nine billion by 2050, and over the next decade, the number of middle-class consumers will almost double to more than three billion. according to the fao, food production must increase by 70% by 2050, and already today 60% of the world's ecosystems are degraded or not used sustainably. europe needs a new programme for future growth that guarantees a high level of prosperity and quality of life for europe. it is parliament's job to set priorities and to push the commission, the member states and industry towards a more ambitious agenda. the new programme for future growth means that we can no longer continue as we have done so far. the programme needs to be adopted at national, regional and local level. internationally, it's the only way forward. the eu should take the lead and push this new agenda for future growth at rio+20. i believe that the transition to a green economy is essential. in order to ensure our own well-being and to enable future generations to enjoy the same benefits as we do, it is important to start operating within the limits of our planet and to decouple economic growth from resource use.
in writing - the number of people on earth will increase to 9 billion by 2050. the number of middle-class consumers will almost double to over 3 billion people. according to the fao, food production must increase by 70% by 2050, and 60% of the world's ecosystems are already degraded or not used sustainably. it is parliament's job to set priorities and to put pressure on the commission, the member states and industry to adopt a more ambitious resource-using agenda. the transition to a waste-based economy, the fundamental improvement in the use of secondary raw materials and the creation of incentives to reduce waste production, the inclusion of resource efficiency among the priorities of innovation programmes and the introduction of environmental sustainability criteria must become a strong common eu agenda in order to attract other regions of the world to this direction. i supported the material and the resolution.
in writing. − the world's population could reach 9 billion by 2050, requiring an increase in food production of some 70%, while 60% of the world's ecosystems are already damaged. europe must also prepare for change, so we need a new agenda for future growth. we need to change not only the way we think about our consumption habits, but also the way we think about the waste of raw materials in our production. at both european and national level, resource efficiency and sustainability should be the top priority of innovation programmes. a common agenda is needed in the public and private sectors, as the transition to a circular economy should be a societal challenge for all of us to pursue. the use of secondary raw materials in the european union must be radically increased and waste generation reduced. however, this will require not only technical but also institutional changes. a new agenda for future growth can ensure a high level of prosperity and quality of life for europe. that's why i voted for the first step towards a more resource-efficient economy.
in writing − after a modest recovery since 2010, unemployment is on the rise again, with an average of 10% and the youth unemployment rate in the european union above 22%. the employment situation of young people varies quite considerably between member states. in some countries it is well below 10%, and in those most affected by the economic crisis, youth unemployment is close to 50%. the debt crisis in europe has had a more severe impact on young people who have not completed compulsory schooling or upper secondary education, as well as those living in economically weaker regions. i believe that tackling youth unemployment requires more investment in education and training across the eu. i believe that mobility and the opportunity to work in another member state can be an important step for young people to gain better access to the labour market. in this respect, i welcome, for example, the erasmus for all initiative, and at the same time i consider it right and necessary to place an appropriate emphasis on work experience abroad for students and young people in the field of vocational training in this programme, also in the interest of subsequent appropriate employment.
in writing − the average youth unemployment rate in the european union, at around 20%, is twice as high as the overall average unemployment rate in the eu. i do not regard the 23 million unemployed in the labour force, of which 5.5 million are young people, as a sad statistic, but as a frightening reality, with far-reaching socioeconomic implications not only for the eu but also for a whole generation of young people. european society needs a high employment rate to maintain the viability of its economy, its competitiveness and, above all, to maintain a social security system which represents a significant part of the national budgets of the member states and whose costs are increasing significantly in relation to the ageing of the population. the issue of high youth unemployment seems to be a road to an abyss and therefore, in my view, it needs to be tackled urgently. for the reasons i have outlined, i support the youth opportunities initiative.
in writing - i would like to thank my colleague, mr pervenche berès, for the very good motion for a resolution which i supported, and i am very pleased that we have started to deal specifically with youth unemployment. we have operatively reorganised the banks, which are a big part of the current situation, and we are unable to generate the basic rules for youth employment that will finally start contributing to employment. the resolution offers many proposals to tackle youth employment, but i do not think that mobility and the opportunity to work in another member state will improve access to the labour market, because it opens up a problem in both countries. i welcome the commission's approach of not preventing the transfer of funds from the european funds, which may be under-utilized for various reasons, and thus allowing the member states to contribute to the integration of young people into the labour market. however, i believe that the most important thing is to structure education in national programmes in relation to the needs of the economy and to increase the share of firms and enterprises in preparing young people for a profession.
in writing − if you have according to the latest provisional and incomplete figures, women in the european union earn on average 16.4% less than men, and the gender pay gap in the member states ranges from 4.4 to 27.9%. despite nearly 40 years of significant legislation and steps and resources to reduce this pay gap, progress has been extremely slow and in some countries the gap is even widening. direct and indirect discrimination, as well as social and economic factors, an occupational and highly segregated labour market, undervaluing of women's work, inequality in work-life balance, traditions and stereotypes, including choice of education pathways, education counselling, access to occupations and professions, especially for girls and women, leading to typically female occupations that are less well paid, are among the causes. the application of the principle of equal pay for equal work and work of equal value is the basis for achieving gender equality. i consider it necessary to adopt measures that contribute to professional and career growth and development in conditions of genuine equality between women and men. this principle is part of corporate social responsibility, which is promoted at international and national level and needs to be developed in all member states.
in writing. − women in the eu earn on average 16.4% less than men, with differences between member states ranging from 4.4% to 27.9%. this is despite legislation that has been in place for almost 40 years to reduce this disparity. the causes of the pay gap are complex, involving direct and indirect discrimination as well as social and economic factors. it also underestimates women's work, stereotypes of choice, inequality in work-life balance. according to experts, direct and indirect discrimination accounts for half of the pay gap. the europe 2020 strategy aims to increase employment of men and women aged 20-64 to 75%. there is also a need to achieve a substantial change in the inclusion of women in managerial jobs and to review existing legislation. i voted for the report.
in writing. - i congratulate my colleague edit bauer on the elaboration of a comprehensive report on the application of the principle of equal pay for men and women for equal work or work of equal value. unfortunately, it is a sad fact that the principle of equal pay for equal work between women and men persists more in theory than in practice, since women in the european union earn on average 16.4% less than men and the pay gap between women and men in the member states ranges from 4.4 to 27.9%. however, the pace of change for the better is too slow and the pay gap in some member states is even widening. moreover, as female students, representing up to 59% of all university graduates, they achieve higher rates of success in achieving academic outcomes, but their subsequent job evaluation is still far below the salaries of their male colleagues. the large differences can be observed in particular in the remuneration of highly qualified women and men. in view of the competitiveness of the european economy, which must increasingly focus on innovation, such a demotivating approach is an unacceptable waste of human potential. i therefore agree with the rapporteur that a labour market without stereotypes would also contribute to the increase in the gross domestic product of the member states. the elimination of the gender pay gap remains a political priority common to all member states and the european institutions, and i therefore support the proposal.
in writing, the federal council of the swiss confederation has decided to introduce quotas for the issue of residence permits of category b for stays of up to five years for nationals of poland, lithuania, latvia, estonia, slovenia, slovakia, the czech republic and hungary with effect from 1 may 2012. switzerland has adopted a number of so-called accompanying measures to the agreement on the free movement of persons which may restrict the provision of services by eu companies in switzerland. according to the case law of the court of justice, many of these accompanying measures are acceptable only if they are proportionate and protect a public interest which is not protected in the country of origin of the service provider concerned. i think it is somewhat regrettable that the swiss authorities have decided to reintroduce quotas for the issuing of residence permits to eu citizens who are nationals of the eight member states that joined the eu in 2004, thus restricting the free movement of persons established by the 1999 eu agreement. i believe that rather than introducing restrictive measures into the existing framework, both parties should take appropriate steps leading to the development of a more appropriate, effective and flexible system of cooperation which would further facilitate the free movement of persons.
in writing, − the swiss authorities decided on 18 april 2012 to introduce quotas on the number of residence permits in category b issued to nationals of eight countries, referring to the security clause enshrined in article 10 of the 1999 agreement on the free movement of persons and the related provisions of the 2004 protocol to that agreement. i supported a critical resolution of the european parliament that switzerland's action against the eight selected eu countries is not in line with the aforementioned documents. the ep does not consider it justified to distinguish in any way between the 25 eu member states by nationality. the ep calls on the commission to clarify whether the current agreement on free movement of persons is a sufficient and effective instrument guaranteeing equal movement and conditions for all eu citizens and to proceed with any amendments. i fully supported the ep resolution.
in writing − i supported the resolution on swiss quotas for the number of residence permits granted to nationals of eight countries, including my own slovakia. it is inconceivable that in europe today we should be divided into good and bad, acceptable and unacceptable. no distinction on the basis of nationality is permitted. switzerland has signed treaties with the eu and i consider the current interference with the rights of eu citizens to be unprecedented. the vice-president of the commission also criticised the swiss federal council's action after the adoption of this document and called on the commission to react immediately. the commissioner is diplomatically encouraging us not to forget the good partnership, because the eu does 25% of its trade with switzerland. violation of human rights and treaty rights cannot justify trade. we don't do that in other countries, why in switzerland? i trust that switzerland will reconsider its decision after our resolution and will not draw a dividing line between the eu member countries.
the celebration of the democratic system and its control mechanisms is one of the main causes of the poor human rights situation in venezuela. without proper control, the state undermines the right to freedom of expression, association and the right of human rights defenders to freely point out violations and promotes impunity for those who violate these fundamental human rights. there simply aren't any control mechanisms in place in venezuela to prevent this. even attempts to withdraw from the inter-american commission on human rights are bad signals, in my opinion. my colleagues say it's the right of every sovereign state. i would also like to say that it is my right as a member of the european parliament, who considers the human rights situation in venezuela to be very bad, to express my concern at this step by this independent state, which will make the human rights situation even worse.
while i share the legitimate concerns of all those who have reservations about the establishment of a state committee to consider the possibility of venezuela's withdrawal from the inter-american commission on human rights, i fear that our views will not be crucial to the decision-making of the venezuelan state administration. the great leaders of small countries often want to look like the great leaders of large states. the united states and canada have not signed the american convention on human rights, so it should not surprise us when the leader of one of these small countries chooses to follow the path of the great models. especially when he feels that an institution that his country helped to establish in good faith is now hostile to his country. in any case, the protection of human rights in this country, regardless of the final decision of the chávez government, will have to continue to be closely monitored. especially since he's preparing for such a contradictory decision.
for the efd group azerbaijan is an active participant in the european neighbourhood policy under the eastern partnership programme and, as part of our political and economic convergence, an association agreement is also being negotiated. azerbaijan is also our important economic partner, and so it is natural that we are very sensitive to the political environment in this country. in the face of repeated signs of a deteriorating human rights situation, it is therefore our duty to remind our partners that the methods used by the governor to intimidate journalists, ngos or political opposition are incompatible with a civilized and democratic form of government. the relevant diplomatic attention to align azerbaijani legislation in the fields of media, freedom of association, democratic elections or punishments for defamation with international standards would thus certainly contribute to the creation of a better legal framework for the peaceful transformation of society. finding an appropriate and effective way to appeal to the azerbaijani authorities must therefore be a great challenge for our foreign service.
the protection of human rights, the promotion of democracy, the rule of law, but also freedom of expression and association are among the fundamental principles on which the union bases its policy towards its partners. and that is the case with azerbaijan. azerbaijan is a partner country of the european union, therefore it is and will be monitored and when justified criticized in cases of human rights violations. and this criticism should be taken very seriously by the azerbaijani authorities. issues that should be discussed urgently and openly with azerbaijani officials include the organization of peaceful protests and rallies and the detention of activists and journalists. the causes of attacks on journalists, civil society leaders and human rights activists should be resolved as soon as possible. that is the minimum we should be asking of azerbaijan as a partner country of the european union, and that is why this resolution must be adopted now.
for the efd group north korea is one of the world's most repressive dictatorships. each year thousands of its citizens, who do not share with their leader the state-prescribed joy of living on its well-fenced reservation, try to escape to a freer world. but their path to freedom leads only through china, where korean refugees are often trafficked and women are sold into sexual slavery. if they seek protection from the chinese authorities, they face deportation back to north korean concentration camps. our polite but forceful appeal to the chinese government, which has the ability to prioritize the un refugee convention over the repatriation agreement applied so far, in addressing this problem, could lead to an improvement in the situation of north korean refugees. refugee status under international law would allow these people to work towards a more dignified way of life in a civilized world. therefore, we are obliged to use our foreign policy potential to influence the chinese administration to end the repatriation of north korean refugees to torture and death camps.
the gsp is one of the most important instruments for implementing the european union's policy towards developing countries. the rules currently in force were laid down by a council regulation back in 2008 and, given the considerable dynamics of social and economic development, it is understandable that these rules need to be updated. in the light of the application of the new mechanisms of the legislative procedure under the treaty of lisbon, this regulation must also be subject to the ordinary procedure of the european parliament. although the commission's proposal for a regulation is based on a proven structure of three separate preferential regimes: 1) the standard gsp scheme, 2) the special incentive measures for sustainable development and good governance known as the gsp plus scheme, and 3) the everything but arms measure, the rules and criteria for granting preferences are changing, which is also reflected in the other structure of the beneficiary countries. the list of beneficiary countries is thus reduced to (a) countries with another agreement on preferential terms, such as free trade agreements, (b) overseas countries and territories of the european union, the united states of america and australia, and (c) countries classified by the world bank as high-income countries for three consecutive years, such as kuwait, qatar, saudi arabia, but also brazil or russia. however, the new classification proposed by the commission would also exclude most of the caribbean islands, most of the latin american countries, but also namibia, gabon and algeria from the gsp. at the same time, such rules would temporarily keep rich countries such as china, indonesia and thailand in the gsp. i therefore consider the proposal of the committee on international trade, which recommends the introduction of a transparent system combining several indicators objectively justifying the granting of the benefits of the gsp to selected countries, to be correct and meaningful.
the motto of the european union is united in diversity, and one of the diversities that defines the european union, in my view, is certainly multilingualism or multilingualism, and that is why i do not believe that we are sitting here tonight and really discussing whether it is necessary for all european citizens, which is 500 million people, to have the same opportunity to discuss things that are decided at the european level in their own language that they understand. and so it matters whether it's an official or an unofficial language of the european union. we can talk about that, but of course it's important that they have access to that so they can understand what we as politicians are discussing. you know, if you say you don't have the money, i suggest this practice: the next time you make a decision or you want to do a public consultation, let's take a big hat, and we'll put 23 big balls with different language names in it, and we'll pick one of them, two or three, depending on how much money we have allocated to that consultation, and based on which language we choose, we'll present that consultation to the public and to the citizens of the european union, because really, the ones you pick, most european citizens don't speak them at all.
the public consultation is basically in the name itself, it's supposed to be public. i naturally respect the commission's efforts to raise the issue and communicate it in a language that is accessible to the majority of the population, who also speak foreign languages. english is widely used as one of the most widely spoken languages in the european union. yet the vast majority of our citizens speak other languages and have no command of english. so if we want to achieve the objective that the public consultation is supposed to achieve, we need to look for mechanisms to get closer to the people, because people don't get closer to our demands. if our citizens are to see the european union as their institution or body, their state and the european commission as an institution that communicates with them, the european commission must learn to communicate with these people in the languages they speak. so perhaps with the help of national governments, efforts need to be made to build their institutions and institutions and mechanisms to help broaden the topics of public consultation to individual countries and individual citizens.
june 4th was the anniversary of the signing of the treaty of trianon. the treaty that moved millions of european citizens figuratively from one country to another without leaving their homeland, thus unprecedentedly increasing the number of eu citizens who still live in minority status. the eu, which is highly sensitive to the respect of human rights anywhere in the world, is unwilling to develop a uniform, high-quality european framework law for minorities for its some 40 million minority citizens. these citizens - with their language, education and culture - are at the mercy of the individual nation states and therefore live in very different conditions, often incompatible with european values. there are countless examples of atrocities against minorities: last month, hungarian youths were beaten in the slovak capital for speaking their native language. article 2 of the lisbon treaty guarantees the rights of minorities over human rights. in my opinion, we are doing little or nothing to put these values into practice. i would welcome it if, in addition to its many important activities, the commission would examine the possibility of historical minorities enjoying equal protection of their collective rights in each member state.
at this meeting we will again be talking about budgetary discipline and reducing member states' excessive deficits. but we will also discuss the artificial creation of jobs through public budgets. and to make matters worse, the social affairs committee has a bill on the table with billions of dollars' worth of claims. but this is not political schizophrenia. the majority of this parliament has a clear objective, namely a federal europe. the inconspicuous increase in expenditure in a declared effort to save inevitably leads to the need for new resources. the german mantinel on eurobonds is not a rejection, it's a condition. if there is a common debt, there is a common budget. and the eurozone, if it has one budget, is actually one country. it's a serious decision, and i'd like us to ask the public what they think about it.
i would like to draw your attention to two cases of violation, one of which is the case of malina hedvig, who was beaten up six years ago for speaking hungarian in slovakia's nyitra. his case dragged on for a long time before it was brought before the european court of human rights in strasbourg. finally, after a brief apology from the previous government, the case was dropped. the case was closed, the perpetrators got away with it, but not the victim. after a socialist government came to power again, the prosecution reopened the case against the victim. the charge is that he lied about being beaten. after the previous administration settled, apologized, the state's attorney's office is harassing the victim again. i've just been ordered to assess your completely absurd mental state six years ago. while the union is building an area of justice and security, the new slovak government is reinforcing legal uncertainty. the addressees are members of a national minority. we must also not ignore the case of leyla zana, which my colleagues have mentioned, and i ask the president of parliament to speak up and to use his authority to ensure that such cases do not occur.
latin america is a region that is gradually managing to get its economic growth underway. yet, despite the somewhat optimistic economic forecasts, more than 180 million people still live below the poverty line. european policy engagement in latin america must therefore continue to take account of the specific conditions of developing economies. this afternoon we discussed the fact that the new commission proposal to change the structure and criteria for granting generalised tariff preferences could have a negative impact on this region and we recommended that the commission modify the proposal as appropriate. i am convinced that with an appropriate policy of sensitive partnership communication combined with customs concessions or material assistance linked to the promotion of civil society behaviour, we could continue to have a positive impact on the further development of latin america.
first of all, i would like to thank mr scurri for his very good cooperation in the preparation of this report and i am very pleased that after the year of volunteering 2011, we have really made an assessment of what the voluntary sector in the european union really looks like and we see where it is lacking and where it could be improved. of course, you always have to look at the rights of volunteers and really not discriminate against them, so that everyone has the same opportunities, the same opportunities. it is very important to talk about quality, about the recognition of volunteering and volunteering activities, and about the protection of volunteers as such. we know that in many countries of the european union, for example, there is still no law on volunteering, although this situation is constantly improving. so for example, this is one of the proposals that we have pushed in this report. i would very much like to see us really pushing for the support of volunteering across all age groups in the new european union programmes for 2014-2020 and really to remember that this activity is very beneficial for society and that all those who do it are really doing very meritorious activities.
global economic development, rapid economic growth in asia, as well as in other parts of the world, has generated enormous demand for energy resources. it is clear that new industrial agglomerations will increasingly be involved in the extraction of limited energy resources and that our traditional energy partners will be able to choose more and more to whom they sell their energy resources. i therefore agree that a policy of stable, sustainable energy supply must be a major priority for the european union. from a geographical point of view, it seems to me to make sense to focus more on closer energy relations with the mediterranean countries and traditional partners norway and russia. the energy potential of the persian gulf, the transcaucasus and siberia will surely be more keenly sought after by new, strong customers from asia and other parts of the world. i am therefore convinced that our new partnerships in central asia or the transcaucasus should not be built at the expense of our current energy suppliers to europe.
in my country, we have a saying that good deals make good friends. the treaties on the european union prohibit debt collectivization, and i therefore do not understand the activities of the european commission and the european parliament to set up a moratorium fund to collectivize the debts of the individual states of the union or to issue eurobonds. mr commissioner, what right do you have to submit material that is fundamentally contrary to the primary legal basis of the european union? mr president, what right does the european parliament have to negotiate the introduction of measures which the treaty of lisbon explicitly prohibits? ladies and gentlemen, let us stop, let us not take measures that we are not authorized to take and let us solve the debt problems of some countries only as our treaties allow us to do.
the economic crisis has fully revealed that it is not possible to build solidarity between states unless there is solidarity between the citizens of those states. this deficit needs to be overcome and cross-border volunteer cooperation is one way to do so. the european year of volunteering 2011 has shown us that we can do a lot to promote volunteering, both at european and national level. it is very important to reinforce, in particular, the social dimension of volunteering and the importance of the skills acquired in volunteering for working life during the survey period. the introduction of a european skills passport is not an ideal solution, but it can help young people to find jobs, not only in difficult conditions of crisis, but also in the context of the crisis. i congratulate the rapporteur and i support the report.
mr president, energy issues need to be a priority for the eu’s cooperation with third countries as well as for its engagement in international organisations. here i would like to stress the importance of the energy charter as one of the few international energy organisations in the world. i fully support the call to make better use of the energy charter as part of the eu’s external policy, especially in such key areas as straight transit investment and dispute resolution. the energy charter’s practical use will grow significantly when not only russia but also countries like morocco, algeria, tunisia and china are full members. its rules could facilitate energy trade from northern africa just as much as the diversification of sources of gas supply and the security of existing ones, notably the southern corridor and ukraine. in order to achieve this, strong support from the eu, its institutions and member states is indispensable. the report which we adopted today is a very important step in the right direction and that is why i supported it with my vote.
written − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns due to globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. on 28 december 2011, spain submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in 146 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 15 ('leather and leather products'), in the nuts ii region comunidad valenciana (es52), and supplemented it by additional information up to 23 february 2011. since the application complies with all the requirements, the commission proposes to make available eur 1 631 565. i am satisfied that it is appropriate to make a financial contribution to the request made by spain.
written − the european globalisation adjustment fund was established to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in world trade patterns, within an annual ceiling of eur 500 million. the comunidad valenciana is home to 11,5% of spain's footwear businesses, with a 26% share of regional employment. footwear imports to spain increased by 20% between 2006 and 2010, with more than 10 000 jobs lost. spain requests the recapitalisation of a coordinated package of personalised services to enable the acquisition of specific professional qualifications, support for job search and resettlement or the setting-up of a new business, subject to the reintegration of 876 workers back into production. i supported this motion.
written − the european union has set up a globalisation adjustment fund to provide additional support to workers affected by the consequences of major structural changes in the world trade pattern. we are currently facing an economic crisis of enormous proportions. all member states are trying to mitigate the effects of this crisis on their populations. as a member of the slovak parliament, i can confirm that, in addition to sustainable growth, support for employment is one of the main tools for combating the crisis. i therefore welcome the adoption of a new draft decision to mobilise the egf in favour of spain in order to support the re-entry into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis.
in writing, eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations in respect of the floods in italy in october 2011. on 25 october 2011, extreme weather conditions over north-west italy caused heavy rainfall over several hours. the provinces of la spezia in liguria and massa carrara in tuscany were the most affected. the heavy rains caused extensive damage to buildings, businesses and agriculture, and also disrupted major transport links and essential public infrastructure. the cinque terre, an integral part of the italian riviera and a unesco world heritage site, was also affected. following this disaster, italy subsequently submitted an application for financial assistance from the european union solidarity fund. as the total damage does not exceed the normal threshold for mobilising the solidarity fund, the application was assessed on the basis of the criterion of 'exceptional regional disaster'. on the basis of the above, assistance from the fund may exceptionally be granted to a region which has been affected by an exceptional disaster, in particular of a natural nature, affecting the majority of its population and having serious and lasting consequences for living conditions and economic stability in the region. i consider it justified to release financial assistance to disaster-affected areas through the eu solidarity fund.
written: draft amending budget no 2/2012 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations in relation to the floods in italy (liguria and tuscany) in october 2011. the total annual budget of the solidarity fund shall be eur 1 billion. the direct damage from the floods was recognised at eur 722,4 million, the aid amounting to eur 18,1 million, which is 2,5% of the damage. the financing of this proposal will be from the expected insufficient implementation of the european recovery plan for the eu economy. i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution.
in writing − the floods that hit the liguria and tuscany regions of italy last autumn caused many casualties and left behind huge property damage of over €700 million. the slovak republic has also been affected by this element on several occasions in recent years, and i am therefore fully aware of the seriousness of such a situation. i therefore welcome draft amending budget no 2/2012 for 2012, which concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund of eur 18 061 682 in commitment and payment appropriations, in particular in relation to the floods in italy.
in writing − the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the european union solidarity fund within an annual ceiling of eur 1 billion over and above the relevant headings of the financial framework. the european union has set up the european union solidarity fund to show solidarity with the population of regions affected by disasters. italy has submitted an application to mobilise the fund, in respect of a natural disaster caused by floods in liguria and tuscany. on the basis of the assessment of the application and taking into account the maximum possible financial support from the fund and the extent of the reallocation of appropriations within the heading in which additional expenditure is required, the commission proposes to mobilise a total amount of eur 18 061 682 from the european union solidarity fund, in commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing, the commission proposes to mobilise the european solidarity fund for italy within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. this proposal is the first proposal to mobilise the fund in 2012. the italian authorities estimate that the total damage caused by the floods in liguria and tuscany in october 2011 amounted to eur 722,5 million. after examining compliance with the eligibility criteria, the commission proposes to mobilise the solidarity fund for a total amount of eur 18 061 682, to be allocated under both commitment and payment appropriations. i supported the motion.
in writing − if you have point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) via the flexibility instrument with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the corresponding headings of the financial framework. regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 provides that 0,35% of the annual maximum amount may be granted each year for technical assistance. the proposed contribution to technical assistance at the initiative of the commission is eur 1 120 000 for 2012. after this release, eur 630 000 will potentially remain available for the event of further needs in later phases of the year. in view of the maximum possible contribution from the egf and the possibility of reallocating appropriations, the commission proposes to mobilise that total amount from the egf.
in writing - one in three people in latin america lives below the poverty line. this figure represents 180 million people, of whom 52 million live on less than 2 euros a day. ten countries in the region are among the 15 countries with the highest inequality in the world. 28 million citizens in latin america cannot read or write, and malnutrition rates are over 20%. 44 million people remain outside social protection systems. although latin america has made significant progress in reducing poverty in recent times, current data on poverty, unemployment and poor social conditions are staggering. the overall objective of development cooperation, as set out in the treaty of lisbon, is to eradicate poverty and promote sustainable economic and social development. the european union should cooperate with all latin american countries in the fight against poverty and this effort must remain one of the eu's priorities. i am convinced that it is the fight against poverty, the reduction of disparities and the provision of access to basic services that form the basis of social cohesion, which must remain a priority in all circumstances.
in writing − in the context of the negotiations on the next development cooperation instrument and the financial framework for 2014-2020, it is proposed to innovate the way development cooperation is conducted between the eu and the latin american region. although latin america has not been significantly affected by the current crisis and is expected to grow by 4,5% in 2012, the uncertainties in the world's economic development could also affect this region. it is a region where 180 million people live below the poverty line and ten of the region's countries are among the 15 most unequal countries in the world. as there has still been no rational change in the distribution of income, the proposal for a new development cooperation instrument must place greater emphasis on redistributive policies and the strengthening of social cohesion, which i supported in the vote.
in writing − if you have under the treaty of lisbon, the european union's action on the international scene is based, inter alia, on the principles of the universality and indivisibility of human rights, respect for human dignity and the principles of equality and solidarity. it is well known that the level of respect for human rights in some latin american countries is very low. according to the united nations development programme, the region has more than 180 million people living below the poverty line, and ten latin american countries are among the 15 most unequal countries in the world. despite the critical social and human rights situation, the region is far less affected by the crisis than, for example, the european union. the outlook for 2012 is indeed positive and economic growth could reach 4.5 percent. i agree with the rapporteur, mr cortés lastra, that the proposal for a new development aid instrument should focus on improving redistribution and strengthening social cohesion. the fight against poverty should be given greater emphasis by the new development cooperation instrument, while at the same time promoting investment in education, science and technology.
in writing − volunteering is a non-formal learning experience, suitable for people of all ages, offering benefits in personal development, strengthening democracy, civic values and social solidarity. it contributes to the objectives of eu policies in the fields of social inclusion, combating discrimination and increasing employment. it helps to address human, social, environmental and intergenerational issues. volunteering is essential for the development of the values of human dignity and equality. it can often ensure that relief is rapidly provided in the event of natural disasters and calamities. around 100 million european citizens are engaged in various voluntary activities. some 80% of eu citizens consider volunteering to be an important element of democracy and an important means by which each individual can participate in the life of society. however, i would like to stress that volunteering should not be seen as an alternative to properly paid work and should not be a reason for failure by member state governments to fulfil their social obligations. the promotion of volunteering shall not lead to the voluntary service becoming a mandatory requirement. the year 2013 will be the european year of citizens and, even in this context, i believe that promoting volunteering in the lives of european citizens has its place and is of the utmost importance.
in writing − volunteering is a tool for individuals and associations to address human, social, environmental and intergenerational needs and issues. the figures show that 100 million european citizens are engaged in various voluntary activities, which can contribute to 5% of european gdp. 80% of citizens consider volunteering to be an important element of democratic life and an important means by which each individual can participate in the life of society. there remains a need to clearly distinguish between the value of voluntary work provided free of charge and the value of profit-making activities. the establishment of a european voluntary corps, the creation of a centralised eu portal on volunteering and a european skills passport will be promoted, which i fully support.
in writing. − crossborder volunteering provides an important opportunity for young people to enrich themselves interculturally. i agree that member states should recognise the benefits of participating in cross-border volunteering, which provides citizens with new skills, contributes to their employability, mobility and enhances the development of social integration. furthermore, by including the skills acquired by students in the context of voluntary activities in the european credit transfer and accumulation system. volunteering can help young people make career choices, and the skills acquired are of great importance for their professional lives. the creation of a european competence passport is an important motivation for volunteers, as it would allow the skills acquired to be officially recognised for both professional and learning purposes. the information network needs to be improved to ensure that everyone is informed about volunteering opportunities. i support the creation of a central eu portal containing a database of volunteer resources and providing information on available programmes, their costs and conditions, including in relation to cross-border volunteering. in order to establish a european network for the exchange of information, member states should, in particular, develop cross-border programmes for volunteering across the union.
in writing − i am very pleased to see a growing number of europeans with a good heart, of all ages, engaging in a variety of voluntary activities in the fields of education, culture, youth policy, sport, the environment, sustainable development, health and many others. volunteering, however, is not only a beautiful gift but also benefits those who give, enabling them to develop personally and to influence society, acquiring new skills and experiences in areas previously unknown. i would also like to highlight the positive impact of volunteering on the strengthening of democracy, human rights and civic values, education, culture, and also in the fight against discrimination and unemployment. volunteering is simply about ordinary people being able to do extraordinary things. in the 27 countries of the european union, there are some 100 million volunteers, and the contribution of their activities is estimated to be as much as 8% of gdp. for the reasons set out above, i support the report on the recognition and support of cross-border volunteering activities in the eu and i join the call for those member states that do not have a sufficient legal framework for volunteers to put it in place and to develop national strategies to promote the development of volunteering activities, including the recognition of the rights of volunteers.
in writing − following the success of the european year of volunteering 2011, the european parliament decided to continue the legacy of this year. this is to build a consistent eu dimension for volunteering that would support the building of this area. it is worth noting that over 100 million european citizens across member states and all age groups are involved in volunteering. volunteering is a huge source of non-formal learning and, in particular, cross-border volunteering opens up opportunities for intercultural enrichment for european citizens of all ages. volunteering is becoming a catalyst for social change and an indispensable tool for actively supporting society. volunteering is not only an expression of active citizenship in all spheres of social life but also an important tool for the development of democratic values, human dignity, equality and the principle of subsidiarity. it is for these reasons that i actively support this report, together with the s&d group.
in writing − volunteering is something we all encounter every day in all areas of social life. in the social sphere, or in sport, people of all ages volunteer and often do not think about the values they create through their activities. they work selflessly, helping people in need. volunteering has long since crossed national borders, and there is a need to support cross-border volunteering activities in the eu. volunteering contributes to tolerance between people, helping the poor, the socially deprived and the sick, but also without volunteers it would not be possible to organise many sports and cultural activities. i therefore supported the motion for a resolution to ensure that funding for volunteering projects and structures is secured in the future, and that cross-border cooperation in volunteering activities is promoted within the framework of eu policies.
in writing − if you have technology is playing an increasing role in all aspects of our daily lives. due to the increasing use of the internet and computer technologies, internet security is now becoming one of the top political priorities of the european union and the rest of the world. in the field of information and communication technologies, security is of particular importance. the technologies used are justified in particular in relation to ensuring economic progress. however, in the online environment, legislation that addresses such important issues as the protection of intellectual property or the protection of personal data must be enforced even more effectively. by strengthening the digital agenda, creating conditions for strong growth and creating technology-based jobs, we can significantly increase the competitiveness of the european union. however, it is essential that we ensure a high level of security in the digital environment in the first place. the rapid development of technologies in this field requires that the prevention of cyber-attacks, the remedial response and the resilience of the global network be based on a comprehensive, responsive, resilient, innovative and long-term framework. finally, it is clear that increased internet resilience is only possible if an effective system of international cooperation and international standards is in place.
in writing, the internet and information and communication technologies (ict) in general are playing an increasingly important role in our lives. the growth in the use of these forms of technology is increasingly related to applications in areas such as finance and banking. it's the constant moving of personal and especially very important data online. this is why cybersecurity is now becoming one of the top political priorities of the european union and the rest of the world. the increasing rate of use and deployment of innovative ict technologies such as fast fixed and mobile internet and cellular networks, smart grids, but also internet services such as cloud computing, all depend on a crucial aspect of security, resilience and user accessibility. just as the growth of icts is very rapid, so too is the increase in risks associated with their use. it is clear that the internet is a critical infrastructure and that its disruption can lead to significant losses and security risks, affecting countless numbers of european citizens. this is why the rapid development of ict requires that the prevention of, and remediation of, cyber-attacks and the resilience of the global network be based on a comprehensive, flexible, innovative and long-term framework.
in writing, the commission has published a report on the implementation of the energy union strategy for europe. moreover, there is a realistic assumption that global energy demand will increase by 40% by 2030, especially in non-oecd countries. the european union's dependence on energy imports will increase significantly over the decade, mainly due to the depletion of its fossil fuel resources. this will be despite the growing influence of renewable energy sources, energy efficiency and research into energy technologies. global competition for fossil fuel resources from emerging economies will therefore logically intensify. this is why i believe it is important to focus on a common approach and to extend influence beyond european borders, especially in the field of energy market rules, when defining european energy policy. there is a clear need to ensure a well-functioning internal market while promoting harmonisation with neighbouring countries, with priority in the area of regulation. i am convinced that the high and increasing import dependency of the european union requires a policy which takes full account of the current developments. this policy must be based on solidarity, strategic cooperation and the promotion of domestic renewable resources.
in writing − given its importance in everyday life, energy should in principle be a commodity and not used as a foreign policy tool. at the same time, however, it is important that the eu takes into account all aspects of the security of our energy supply. the eu is the main buyer of energy on world markets. while this may be seen as a disadvantage, it can also be a strength: we are the largest importers and we will use this fact in a coordinated way in our position vis-à-vis third countries. we need to find a common approach and extend our influence beyond the eu, especially in the area of energy market rules. it is also necessary to ensure a well-functioning internal market, better competition between our foreign partners, including regulatory harmonisation with neighbours, which i fully support.
in writing − sustainable energy supply is a prerequisite for economic development. the energy sector is therefore one of the strategic areas requiring tactical action focused on energy security and sustainability. however, the right energy mix, with renewables starting to make inroads, together with energy efficiency and other small-scale solutions, is not an integral part of the answer to the question of the energy dependence of many member states on energy supplies from outside the eu. in my view, the union should not only cultivate its relations with its traditional partners, such as russia, but should also gradually establish deeper strategic cooperation in energy with the countries bordering the black and caspian seas, the middle east, the mediterranean and central asia. of course, we must not forget the improvement of the functioning of the internal market, where unfortunately many barriers to competition persist, making the eu market less attractive to suppliers and investors outside europe. i agree that the eu and the member states must ensure an internal energy market that resists external pressures and attempts to use energy supplies and prices as a tool for external political pressure. i therefore believe that when the eu budget is being planned, resources should be increased for projects linking energy markets within the eu and for improving the european gas and electricity infrastructure network.
in writing, europe is the largest buyer of energy in global energy markets. this position is to some extent a very big handicap. the reason is the continuous creation of energy dependence on third countries. it is precisely because of the low self-sufficiency that relations with our partners - energy suppliers - are very important. member states are the biggest importers and if we use this fact at european union level in a common and coordinated way and take a firm bargaining position against third countries, we will almost always have a good bargaining position as a strong player on the demand side of the market. ensuring reliable and cost-effective access to global energy resources is therefore crucial to promoting europe's competitiveness and security in view of the eu's policy objectives set out in the 2020 package. it is also necessary to achieve our environmental objectives, such as meeting the commitment to decarbonise the economy by 2050.
madam president, first of all i would like to offer my sincere congratulations to the rapporteur for his very good work on this report. with this report and this discussion, parliament has a chance to contribute to shaping the position of the special representative for human rights. human rights issues have been among the key issues in parliament for a long time. therefore, in this report, we are addressing several recommendations to the council. i truly hope that they deserve the support of baroness ashton as well. most importantly, the new special representative should have an independent and flexible mandate, allowing him or her to act swiftly and effectively. this should contribute to the enhanced visibility and effectiveness of the eu when it comes to the eu’s human rights policy. the eu’s special representative will also need to ensure coherence and mainstreaming of human rights issues across various policy areas. the special representative for human rights should be a high-level interlocutor for his or her counterparts in third countries and at international organisations. he or she should be able to represent the eu in multilateral fora and engage with the un as well as with relevant regional organisations. finally, i would like to stress that parliament will be keen to play its role in the appointment procedure, especially with regard to the hearing of the candidates, as well as overseeing the mandate during its entire term.
while i appreciate the european union's efforts to regulate the arms trade and to seek more effective control mechanisms for the transit and sale of arms, i believe that we could perhaps try to establish a more sophisticated mechanism for the distribution of new weapons and weapons systems, one that would eliminate the institution of sales, whereby the manufacturer and supplier lose control of the further use of these goods after the transaction has been completed. if we could, under the auspices of the united nations, push for the adoption of a philosophy where the manufacturer and its distributor have access to the use of weapons and weapon systems, in particular heavy weapons and weapon systems, throughout their lifecycle through exclusive servicing and the exclusive supply of consumables, and weapons and weapon systems are not owned by the end user but are held only on a lease-by-lease basis, we might be able to create a more effective system for controlling the use of weapons and weapon systems. in that case, the owner and the manufacturer of the weapons would still have a say in how the weapons and the weapons systems are used in the future, and that would allow us to intervene in their use afterwards.
i think that today, when we are negotiating the un arms trade treaty, we have to take a serious look at our own ranks. we are the world champions in protecting human rights and the rule of law, but european companies, manufacturers and, above all, distributors, are also putting their systems in third countries, even in countries where they should not be going at all. i am deeply sorry and appalled that another major player on the world stage, russia, continues to supply weapons systems to syria, which is using them to destroy the normal democratization of its country. the transit and sale of arms, it can't be that difficult to control, and i think it shows beautifully that we are adamant that there is no system of sanctions against those who violate this convention.
mr president, the syrian crisis is horrifying, not only because of the sheer brutality and scale of violence, but because there is no silver bullet solution. no single policy or action, whether a military intervention or a diplomatic solution, could halt the massacre and ensure a peaceful transition of power. the eu should keep up the oil embargo and intensify sanctions, encourage turkey to be more active and support all constructive proposals put forward by kofi annan, including the contract group idea. above all, the eu should draw russia, which after all is our strategic partner, more closely into the process, and not just put pressure on it to change its position, but allow moscow to play a positive and constructive role in syria. these are the most important steps.
first of all, i would like to join in congratulating rapporteur maria nedelchev. i fully agree with her report and want to believe that all the recommendations of this report will be promptly and fully implemented. of course, before the provincial and local elections, which are postponed for various reasons from the original date of march 2012. last fall, i chaired a conference in the european parliament on the congolese elections. there was already a huge interest and hope for the december elections from both citizens and organizations in congo and abroad. the high turnout confirmed this interest. people want more stability, security and prosperity for their country through stronger democracy and transparency. the eu and the great lakes region have a very important role to play here. they can contribute to the full and faster implementation of all recommendations through their significant influence on the congolese authorities and leaders in charge. as the elections in december 2011 were marked by international observers as unreliable and non-transparent, i consider the ratification of the african charter on democracy, elections and governance as a necessary first step.
in writing. − ms iliana ivanova has been a member of the european parliament since 2009, vice-chair of the committee on budgetary control, vice-chair of the special committee on the financial, economic and social crisis, vice-chair of the delegation for relations with the people's republic of china, member of the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, and an alternate member of the committee on economic and monetary affairs. she was previously a member of the sofia city council and worked at the ministry of agriculture and food of the republic of bulgaria as a coordinator for international and financial institutions. in the past, she has also worked for several foreign institutions and companies as a financial analyst and business development expert. the committee on budgetary control has assessed the qualifications of the proposed candidate. the european parliament agrees with the council's proposal to appoint iliana ivanova as a member of the court of auditors and at the same time instructed its president to forward this decision to the council and, for information, to the court of auditors, as well as to the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states.
in writing − if you have the aim of common international values and standards is to ensure peace, the protection of human rights, security and prosperity in the world and to share the benefits of globalisation among all on a more equitable basis. in order to jointly address emerging global challenges and the adverse impact of the global economic crisis, there is a growing need for common rules and decision-making mechanisms. i believe that the european union must strengthen its cohesion in order to continue to play a key role in an increasingly multipolar world that needs a common approach at global level. a strong and stable partnership between the eu and the un underpins the un's work under all three pillars peace and security, human rights and development and is also very important for the eu's role as a global actor. the union, together with the un, are natural partners in the peace-building and state-building process and together provide the framework for collective efforts in peace-building and state-building. however, i also believe it is important to better integrate democratic support into european external action, to promote democratic governance through various financial instruments and to use the resources of eu delegations wherever possible. it is equally important that the union, together with the un and other partners, work at global and local levels to strengthen the rule of law, support independent media and build and strengthen sustainable democratic institutions.
written − the european union has granted trade preferences to developing countries through the generalised system of preferences (gsp) since 1971. the scheme is one of the key trade instruments providing assistance to developing countries in their efforts to ensure basic human and labour rights, reduce poverty and promote sustainable development and good governance in developing countries. the increased trade volume has integrated many developing countries and exporting sectors into the world market. in order to ensure better protection of the eu's financial and economic interests and to increase legal certainty, stability and predictability, the administrative procedures for the individual safeguard mechanisms are also improved. the new regulation is based on increased transparency and predictability, including applicable procedures and rights of defence. i am convinced that they will better protect the eu's financial and economic interests and increase legal certainty and stability. it is important to bear in mind that preferential access to the eu market is one of several factors that allow development to be sustained through trade. and it is this new gsp regulation that aims to achieve greater simplicity, predictability and better targeting of the eu gsp system so as to achieve its maximum effectiveness, all the procedures proposed being also in line with the un priorities for fighting world poverty.
written − since 1971, the eu has granted non-reciprocal trade preferences in the form of reduced tariffs on goods entering the european market from developing countries under the gsp. in 2009, the value of eu imports under this scheme was around eur 60 billion, representing 4% of total eu imports. the new rules, adopted under the lisbon treaty under the ordinary legislative procedure, are designed to reduce the number of beneficiary countries from 186 to 80. the so-called more developed countries, which are currently the most favoured and account for around 40% of the eu's preferential imports, will be excluded. the new regulation will also include a series of guarantee and control measures, and will also redefine the procedures leading to the application of safeguard clauses and decision-making procedures. i fully supported the motion.
in writing − the financial crisis that has hit the world in recent years has seriously disrupted economic growth and financial stability, causing a significant deterioration in the public finances deficit and the debt position of the member states. however, the serious economic and social consequences that many countries are currently facing could have been avoided in the past by taking effective measures. however, the union did not have the necessary instruments at that time. this is what we need to correct, by combining the six pieces of legislation from 2011 - the european economic governance package - with two new ones, the two-pack. we need to strengthen the original regulations. i consider that the adoption of preventive measures is preferable to the adoption of corrective measures in all circumstances. a member state with significant financial problems should be subject to enhanced surveillance, even if such problems are still imminent. the surveillance must be proportionate to the difficulties encountered or threatened and must take due account of the financial assistance received. a country that is experiencing or is threatened by severe financial shocks, we will ensure a smooth return to normalcy. the consequences of excessive government debt can be dire. i believe it is important to prevent a country in financial difficulty from passing on its problems to the rest of the euro area. to ensure financial stability and economic growth, the six-package of measures needs to be completed.
in writing − the proposal for a regulation on strengthening economic and budgetary surveillance of member states in serious difficulties is set against the background of the financial and public debt crises currently facing the eu. the commission's proposals complement the package of six european economic governance rules adopted by the ep and the council in 2011. the main thrust of the commission's proposal is to make it compulsory for a member state whose currency is the euro to be subject to enhanced surveillance if it is experiencing or is threatened with serious financial difficulties. in the interest of rapid response, it should be the responsibility of the commission to take the necessary decisions, which include the procedure of enhanced surveillance of the member state. the council could reject this procedure by simple majority within 10 days. i supported the proposal in the ep's comments.
in writing − if you have the treaty on the functioning of the european union requires member states to regard their economic policies as a matter of common concern, to have their budgetary policies guided by the need for sound public finances and to ensure that their economic policies do not jeopardise the proper functioning of economic and monetary union. the treaty allows specific measures to be taken in the euro area, going beyond the provisions applicable to all member states, in order to ensure the proper functioning of economic and monetary union. the establishment of a common budgetary timetable for member states whose currency is the euro should better synchronise the key steps in the preparation of national budgets, thus contributing to the effectiveness of the european semester for the coordination of budgetary policies. however, biased and unrealistic macroeconomic and budgetary forecasts can significantly impede the effectiveness of budgetary planning and, consequently, weaken the commitment to budgetary discipline. on the contrary, the forecasts of independent bodies can provide unbiased and realistic macroeconomic forecasts. at the same time, a timely correction of any deviations indicating excessive deficits in member states should be ensured through more rigorous monitoring. i am also convinced that a gradually extended monitoring procedure will contribute to better budgetary outcomes for all member states whose currency is the euro.
in writing − if you have in november 2011, the ep and the council formally adopted a legislative package aimed at strengthening the governance of economic affairs in the eu and the euro area. the package consisted of six proposals: four dealing with fiscal issues arising from the reform of the stability and growth pact, and two aimed at identifying and addressing emerging macroeconomic imbalances within the eu and the euro area. the commission's proposal for a new regulation lays down additional requirements for the monitoring of national budgetary policies, in particular provisions on the establishment of a common budgetary timetable, rules-based fiscal frameworks and enhanced surveillance of member states subject to the excessive deficit procedure. i voted in favor of the motion.
written − the european bank for reconstruction and development (ebrd) was established in 1990 to promote the development of market economies in an area stretching from central europe to central asia following the widespread collapse of communist regimes. the european union was a founding member, along with the european investment bank (eib) and all the then eu member states. in response to the events in the southern and eastern mediterranean in 2011, the commission and the high representative presented a joint communication in march 2011 indicating strong political and economic support from the eu to the region, including the possibility of extending the ebrd mandate to the southern neighbourhood countries. in its resolution of april 2011 on the revision of the southern dimension of the european neighbourhood policy, the european parliament called for the ebrd to amend its statute in order to participate in the financial assistance process. as the ebrd board of governors voted in favour of the necessary amendments to the ebrd agreement, this will allow the ebrd to extend its scope to the southern and eastern mediterranean. the bank should be encouraged to continue its close cooperation with the eu and develop close cooperation with the eib and other european and international public financial institutions in the implementation of its activities in the southern and eastern mediterranean.
in writing − if you have in 2009, the eu and japan together accounted for more than a quarter of global gdp and more than 20% of global trade. japan is a major investor in the eu economy and vice versa, with a combined volume of their foreign direct investment in 2009 of eur 200 billion. the eu and japan face common challenges to revive their industries, such as the political and economic rise of china, the economic slowdown following the global financial crisis, demographic decline and the urgent need to access and secure price stability for raw materials and energy resources. open and fair trade is an important tool for ensuring greater growth and social well-being. although the eu and japan generally have low tariffs on goods, the volume of bilateral trade lags behind the eu's trade with its other major trading partners. i believe it is important to strengthen trade relations between the eu and japan, to remove non-tariff barriers to trade and investment, including the numerous restrictive rules and regulatory measures for eu companies when entering the japanese market. at the same time, i am of the opinion that an eu-japan free trade agreement would not only bring benefits in terms of increasing bilateral trade in goods and services, but would also strengthen cooperation on eu horizontal priorities.
in writing − if you have as a result of the military coup d'état of 12 april, interim president raimundo pereira and prime minister carlos gomes júnior were removed from office and the national assembly was dissolved. in guinea-bissau, there have been looting and human rights violations, arbitrary detentions and violent suppression of peaceful protests. the political crisis distracts attention from the needs of the population and accelerates the humanitarian crisis. worrying are reports from ngos on the ground that the illegal government of coup plotters continues to violate human rights with increasing intensity, in particular with regard to the suppression of civil liberties such as freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of movement and freedom of association. i also condemn the arbitrary detention, imprisonment and harassment of activists and politicians who protest against the government of the self-styled coup plotters. i believe it is essential that perpetrators of human rights violations are punished for their actions and that those responsible for violating the constitutional order are brought to justice. in this context, i consider the sanctions adopted by the european union to be justified and it is equally important that the un security council should implement its threats if constitutional order is not restored. i believe it is important that the fight against impunity and the promotion of socioeconomic development in guinea-bissau should be prioritised in a long-term strategy that takes account of the context and situation at regional level.
in writing − if you have on 29 june 2011, the government of sudan and the government of south sudan concluded an agreement on border security and a common political and security mechanism, which includes a commitment to establish a secure demilitarised border zone. decades of mutual distrust have prevented both sides from making a gesture towards de-escalation and pursuing negotiations. however, i am pleased that sudan and south sudan are working to end the violence and to demonstrate the political will to resolve the problems that remained unresolved after the secession of south sudan. on the other hand, however, all acts of violence against the civilian population which are contrary to international humanitarian law and human rights law are to be condemned. i consider it important to emphasise that all stakeholders should make efforts to protect human rights, including the rights of women and persons belonging to vulnerable groups, and that those who commit serious violations of these rights, including sexual violence, should be held accountable. in my view, long-term stability in the region requires a new, coherent and comprehensive international strategy in which the eu plays its part alongside other global and regional actors, and which focuses not only on the problems between sudan and south sudan and on the situation in south kordofan and blue nile, but also on the reform process in sudan.
in writing negotiations between the eu and the andean community of nations (acn) on an interregional association agreement, including political dialogue, cooperation and trade, were launched in june 2007, after the council had authorised these negotiations in april of the same year. disagreements between the andean countries on the approach to a number of key trade issues to be covered by the envisaged agreement led, unfortunately, to the breakdown of the talks in june 2008. in these circumstances, the commission submitted a recommendation to the council in december 2008 to adjust the existing mandate in order to continue negotiations on a trade agreement with those andean community countries that are interested in moving forward in them. in january 2009, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a multilateral trade agreement with those countries that align with our overall objective of a balanced, ambitious, comprehensive agreement that meets the requirements of the world trade organisation. the presidents of colombia, ecuador and peru have confirmed their commitment to negotiations. the negotiations were successfully concluded in may 2010 and, following the legal review phase, the text of the trade agreement was initialled with colombia and peru on 23 march 2011. it is an ambitious, comprehensive and balanced trade agreement that should be signed on behalf of the eu.
in writing, the european union is committed to upholding human rights, fundamental freedoms and the principles of democracy everywhere in the world. the appointment of a special representative for human rights would significantly assist the eu in its external action to promote human rights and fundamental democratic values. i believe that the field of human rights is one of the most important policies of the union. yet, the world's rate of violation of these laws is still staggeringly high. it is within the eu's competence to change this situation. the eusr would ensure the coherence, consistency and visibility of the union's policy in this area. if it is to be truly effective, we must ensure that it is given a strong, flexible and, above all, independent mandate. the scope of this mandate must be consistent with the principles of the universality and indivisibility of human rights and should include the strengthening of democracy and the promotion of international justice. it should include the abolition of the death penalty, the fight against torture or inhuman and degrading treatment, the fight against impunity, against discrimination of any kind, the promotion of minority rights, the protection of the rights of the child, the rights of women, but in particular it should promote freedom as a fundamental pillar of democracy, thus contributing overall to peace and security everywhere in the world. i believe that in the context of the protection and promotion of human rights in the world, the post of eu special representative for human rights is justified.
in writing − the uncontrolled and unregulated arms trade poses a serious threat to local, national, regional and international peace, security and stability, as well as to democracy, the rule of law and sustainable social and economic development. the unregulated arms trade is one of the factors fuelling military conflicts, displacement, organized crime, and terrorism. while the arms industry clearly contributes to job creation and economic growth, the poorly regulated, uncontrolled and non-transparent arms trade leads to irresponsible trade, causes unnecessary human suffering, fuels armed conflict, instability, terrorist attacks and corruption, undermines peace processes, good governance and socio-economic development, and leads to the disempowerment of democratically elected governments and violations of the rule of law, human rights and international humanitarian law. moreover, there are no commitments in the area of arms transfers that explicitly defend this right. in view of these facts, i am convinced of the importance of the effective and credible implementation of the att. it is important that member states, in accordance with their obligations under the treaty of lisbon, promote at the conference the positions of the union expressed in the response to the un secretary-general in order to guarantee a successful outcome of the conference, which will result in a well-founded arms trade treaty.
in writing − if you have in november 2011, the second general elections since the entry into force of the constitution in 2006 took place, a key step towards consolidating democratisation and the stabilisation process in the drc. during that period, dozens to hundreds of people were killed, injured or detained in connection with the elections. the repression of human rights activists and journalists in the drc has intensified, with arbitrary arrests and intimidation. violence and violations of fundamental rights are reprehensible. it is important that the congolese government re-examine the draft law on the protection of human rights defenders in the national parliament. elections are necessary but not sufficient to create the conditions for a process of democratisation that goes beyond the organisation of elections. i believe that in order to achieve successful democratisation, it is essential that the basic rights of citizens, such as employment, health and education, are respected in the context of the social and economic development of the country. i also consider it important that the congolese government firmly commits to a genuine political practice that respects human rights, including freedom of expression and belief, freedom of assembly and freedom of religion, and to the elimination of discrimination based on sex or sexual orientation. the efforts to strengthen the rule of law, good governance and the fight against corruption are also essential.
the deepening crisis, inequality, competitiveness gaps and ever-widening social disparities - this is the situation the european union is currently in. the differences since the introduction of the euro, as well as the overall functioning of the financial system, have highlighted in particular the need to address macroeconomic imbalances better and more effectively. it is essential that we exercise better budgetary surveillance. we need better economic governance based on greater accountability for the rules and procedures we have agreed together. it is equally important to tighten control of national economic policies at the level of the european union. the current phase of the crisis requires a bold and courageous response. the member states must finally see their economic and fiscal policies as a matter of our common european interest. all the experience gained so far clearly shows that we urgently need better coordination in the introduction and implementation of fiscal measures and, in particular, and i would like to stress this point here too, mr commissioner, a more effective fight against tax fraud and evasion. let's drop the counterproductive measures and finally focus on new and effective ones.
commissioner, i agree with you that a well-functioning single market is of great importance for the recovery of economic growth in the union. however, in view of the continuing stagnation, i believe that it would be necessary to continue more vigorously with the enforcement of certain administrative measures, the implementation of which would not cost much money and would bring great economic benefits. in particular, we should bring legislation for the application of the european patent to a conclusion as soon as possible. one patent protecting an innovative product throughout the union should be the absolute minimum. furthermore, i believe that common simple rules for businesses, especially smes, should be agreed and introduced, opening up a real path for them to do business across borders. this means establishing uniform, simple and transparent rules for the accounting and reporting of their income and expenditure. this also means applying transparent and analogous certification and licensing procedures available to small entrepreneurs. the sooner we can, commissioner, bring about the necessary changes in life, the sooner the union will be able to benefit from these changes.
the commission's efforts to promote the functioning of the single market through appropriate forms of european companies is a process that must deal with new obstacles at the level of national commercial law in the individual member states. so there is no need to be under any illusions about a quick procedure and a simple solution. the fact that smes are the most important contributors to economic stability and job creation indicates where the european commission should focus its efforts first. currently, only 23% of smes are active outside their own country. according to expert analyses, up to eur 6,3 billion could be raised in the union if a specific european legal framework for this category of businesses could be developed. this makes it clear where the european commission should focus its attention first when seeking new, simple business models for cross-border business in the union and when improving its current trade law.
the economic stagnation in which the european union finds itself forces us to consider the appropriate impetus for the resumption of economic growth. although i understand the consolidation measures and the proposal to reallocate the structural funds, i cannot help feeling that the commission is overlooking some of the serious causes of the current situation. european workers are also losing their jobs because our european companies, which we often support with various incentives, are moving their production to other parts of the world and the resulting profits to tax havens. look at this, mr commissioner, which of the major european car manufacturers has not built up its production capacity in china, brazil, russia and elsewhere in the world? are you surprised that their european businesses are not selling as much as they used to and that their european employees are losing their jobs? and i ask you, do the proceeds of this business end up in the tax revenues of the union, or in the offshore accounts of the shareholders or the top managers of these companies? so let us also consider, commissioner, the economic environment we are creating in the union as our traditional european producers are gradually leaving us to do business elsewhere in the world.
written ep draft resolution the road to economic recovery is very concrete and describes all aspects and problems of unemployment and the possibilities for economic development and growth. the problem is that we describe problems very precisely, we know about them, and we eventually come up with solutions, but it takes us a long time to implement the solutions. if we want to tackle unemployment, we cannot come up with initiative solutions on a rolling basis, but the commission should present legislation in a comprehensive way, enabling us to tackle education, employment, support, mobility, productivity and the use of unused structural funds. joint aid to countries with economies in trouble is necessary, but it is very difficult to explain, for example, in our country - in slovakia, where the minimum wage is 327 euros - that we have to help, for example, spain, where the minimum wage is twice as high as in slovakia. therefore, measures to stimulate economic growth need to be adopted and implemented in the individual member states as a matter of urgency.
the entry into force of regulation no 1272/2008 of the european parliament of the european community was the main impetus for the revision of the seveco directive. although the commission is introducing a new, more sophisticated classification system in its revision of this directive, which distinguishes three categories of toxicity and differentiates between 5 possible routes of exposure, and is also proposing to tighten up the current inspection rules, some areas of safety protection are not adequately covered. these include, in particular, the omission of the regulation on liability for the use of subcontracted services and the provisions on the transport of dangerous goods and their temporary storage in premises not covered by the directive. the draft directive also has a serious shortcoming in that it leaves too much room for derogations to be granted to member states. the many disasters of recent years have also reminded us that in order to guarantee the safety of the equipment, it is necessary to take into account, in addition to technological risks, natural risks, which are missing from the design. i therefore consider it very necessary to support all the additional proposals of the committee on industry, research and energy which address the shortcomings of the proposal submitted by the commission.
in writing. the directive, which will enter into force in 2015, will improve safety in the operation of plants using dangerous substances, thus ensuring better protection of citizens and the prevention of accidents. i supported the line taken by the rapporteur in the committee on industry that the level of protection of health and the environment should be at least the same or higher than today. in order to achieve the same european level of protection and prevention, member states should ensure the exchange of best practices and the sharing of the necessary information. this will help to identify the causes of accidents more quickly and to mitigate their negative consequences. it is important to note that any extension of the scope of the directive will have to be preceded by an impact assessment. the provision for amendment of annex i by the ordinary legislative procedure is an essential element of parliament's legislative role. in the interests of citizens, operators should inform and cooperate with local authorities and bear the consequences of any accidents. reducing the administrative burden on smes in the sector can only be achieved while maintaining an adequate level of protection. in order to protect the safety and health of citizens and prevent disasters, the installations covered by the seveso directive should, without exception, comply with the best available techniques.
the protection of vulnerable groups of the population is an important societal responsibility and therefore the rules currently in force regulating the production and sale of food intended for infants and young children as well as food for special purposes which no longer complies with the latest scientific knowledge need to be updated. the introduction should acknowledge the commission's efforts to simplify and clarify these rules. improved knowledge of the effects of individual substances on the human body has made it possible to formulate the necessary restrictions more precisely and to establish stricter rules, which has also led to the ban on pesticides in foodstuffs intended for particular uses. despite the efforts of the commission to develop comprehensive legislation to regulate the production and sale of food for infants and young children as well as food for special medical purposes, the question of the inclusion of food for gluten intolerant persons as well as milk drinks intended for young children in the text of the proposal for this regulation remains open. therefore, we must continue to monitor very closely the evolution of knowledge on the effects of individual substances on the human body and be prepared to supplement and amend the current rules operationally.
in writing one of the main objectives of the europe 2020 strategy is to achieve a 75% employment rate for people aged 20-64 by 2020. unemployment in the eu is at an all-time high. nearly 24.5 million residents are unemployed. that's more than 10% of the working population. national governments must take measures to stimulate economic growth, create new jobs and maintain sound public finances. the eu must be equipped with a broader and more effective set of policy instruments to ensure its future prosperity and a high standard of living for its people. the economic recovery plan implemented in 2008 helped to mitigate the shocks caused by the economic downturn in our economies. coordinated support was provided to those member states that needed it, and measures were also applied to safeguard the stability of the economic and monetary union. i believe that the union needs a well-defined policy approach to promote economic recovery, restore the health of public finances and, above all, actively promote sustainable growth and jobs. however, job creation is one of the most pressing issues in the recovery process. promoting employment and helping people find work is certainly our duty. as well as strengthening the coordination of our economic policies, which is absolutely essential for a new sustainable growth agenda.
rules on the labelling of infant formula and foods for people with special health needs need to be stricter and better defined in order to protect consumers. it should be borne in mind that, in the case of this type of food, misleading labelling may harm the health of the consumer. therefore, stricter regulation is needed. its task is not to deprive people of the possibility of choosing, but to ensure that their choice is based on clear, understandable and true information. i think that the advertising of these foods should therefore meet higher ethical standards. it should be in the natural interest of the producers themselves to ensure that they are strictly observed. i welcome this report and appreciate the qualified approach of the rapporteur, ms ries.
it might seem that at a time when the attention of citizens and politicians is focused on finding ways out of the financial and budgetary crisis, the call for the consistent application of multilingualism is a secondary issue. however, the two issues are closely linked. the european identity, which is a prerequisite for the solidarity of the member states, cannot exist without a sense of belonging. if citizens of some member states feel that europe does not speak their language, it will not be their europe. they will no longer care about its fate, the fate of the single currency, the future of the commonwealth. that is why it is more important than ever that the union communicates with its citizens in all the official languages.
estimates by the world health organization say that at least half a million women and girls in the eu are living with genital mutilation, and another 180 000 girls are at risk. this mutilation is not a religious practice, but a cruel, barbaric ritual explained by tradition. girls, usually under 15, experience unimaginable pain and permanent health consequences for the rest of their lives. the european parliament adopted a second resolution calling on the commission and the member states to do everything possible to eradicate this inhuman practice. the european union can do a lot to combat this violence. this is done both by supporting organisations that help victims and by taking active steps in planning development aid in countries where the practice is still tolerated. we must also fight this crime in the european union without compromise.
the breast implant affair is the result of human irresponsibility, but it's also the result of inadequate legislation. i hope that the pressure on the commission will lead to the creation of a legal framework as soon as possible that will guarantee the quality not only of breast implants but of medical technology in general. specific measures should include strengthening controls on products on the market, but also unannounced controls throughout the supply chain, increasing accreditation requirements and improving supervision by member states' authorities. as a doctor, i welcome the obligation to report any prohibition, restriction or legal action taken against implants in another eu member state. furthermore, a system of identification of each individual product and a register of implants will be established to allow their traceability and long-term safety monitoring.
in writing − if you have the proposal aims to amend the council regulation of december 2008 establishing a multiannual plan for the herring stock in the west of scotland and the fisheries targeting it. the basic objective of the plan is to ensure that the herring stock west of scotland is exploited on the basis of maximum sustainable yield. to that end, the plan shall lay down rules for the annual fishing opportunities for that stock, in the case of total allowable catches. these rules use certain technical parameters to determine whether the protection in stock is in a better or worse state and thus to a greater or lesser extent fulfilling the objectives set out in the plan. the parameters are based on scientific data and are not a political choice. the science is evolving and improving, and it is therefore necessary to update the plan to include the necessary provisions taking into account the latest scientific knowledge. for this reason too, i consider that the plan should be amended accordingly. the changes made will allow the plan to function effectively at the level of the new decision-making framework provided for by the treaty of lisbon.
written − the december 2006 directive on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances lays down rules for preventing major accidents which could result from certain industrial activities and limiting their consequences for human health and the environment. major accidents often have very serious consequences, as demonstrated by seveso, bhopal, schweizerhalle, enschede, toulouse and buncefield. their influence may even transcend national boundaries. this underlines the need to take appropriate preventive measures to guarantee a high level of protection of citizens, communities and the environment throughout the union. the directive in question has helped to reduce the likelihood of such accidents and their consequences, and thus contributed to increasing the level of protection throughout the union. the review of the directive confirmed that the existing provisions fulfil their purpose overall and no major changes are required. however, the system established by this directive should be adapted to changes in the union system for the classification of dangerous substances referred to therein. i also believe that a number of other provisions should be clarified and updated. at the same time, the new provisions should be clear, coherent and understandable in order to help improve implementation and enforceability without compromising security.
in writing − major industrial accidents claim many lives, destroy property and the environment and have caused billions of euros in costs. a number of eu regulations and directives have already been adopted to reduce the scale and mitigate the consequences of these accidents. the commission is proposing a revision of the seveso ii directive, which affects some 10 000 businesses handling dangerous substances. the proposed revision correctly maintains the level of protection and avoids major changes in scope. a new, more sophisticated classification system is introduced, in particular as regards the link between human contact with dangerous substances and the resulting health risks. the level and quality of information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice are improved. i supported the draft directive as it was in the ep's comments.
in writing − since it is of the utmost importance not only to maintain but also to improve a high level of protection of human health, the environment and property, i consider it necessary to adapt the directive appropriately to scientific and technical progress. i welcome the commission's proposals on access to information, public participation in decision-making and access to justice, and in particular the strengthening of existing inspections. the public has the right to be adequately and appropriately informed of the possible dangers and how to protect themselves against them. as regards the obligations of operators, i believe that the commission's proposal could be bolder. in addition to the obligation to take all necessary measures to prevent accidents and to eliminate their consequences, if any, at their own expense, they should have a duty to report the presence of dangerous substances above a certain specified limit and to provide evidence of their ability to cope with an accident and a prevention and emergency management plan. it is not desirable to burden public finances, whether at the state or at the level of regions, cities and municipalities. moreover, a precise definition of rights and responsibilities will lead to legal certainty.
in writing − the free movement of safe and healthy food is an essential aspect of the internal market and contributes significantly to the health and well-being of citizens and to their social and economic interests. the directive of the european parliament and of the council of may 2009 on foodstuffs intended for particular nutritional uses lays down general rules on the composition and preparation of such foodstuffs which are specifically designed to meet the particular nutritional requirements of the persons for whom they are intended. however, experience has shown that certain rules included in or adopted on the basis of that directive are no longer effective in ensuring the functioning of the internal market. i believe that the concept of 'food for special nutritional purposes' should be abolished and the directive should be replaced by a legal act which should take the form of a regulation in order to simplify its application and guarantee uniformity in all member states. at the same time, i consider it necessary to lay down procedures for taking exceptional measures in cases where foodstuffs covered by this regulation present a serious risk to human health. in order to ensure uniform conditions for the implementation of those exceptional measures, implementing powers should be conferred on the commission. the commission should subsequently adopt applicable implementing acts concerning exceptional measures where, in duly justified cases relating to public health, serious and urgent reasons so require.
in writing − foods for people with special nutritional needs so-called parnuts are an area that has been covered by european union legislation for a long time. this sector has experienced significant growth in recent years, as evidenced in particular by the clear increase in demand for the supply of safe and healthy food. despite previous attempts at harmonisation, there are still wide differences between national laws concerning parnuts. these differences are an obstacle to the free movement of goods, create unnecessary regulatory burdens for companies operating in the food sector and ultimately hamper the functioning of the internal market. last but not least, i welcome the efforts of the committee on industry, research and energy to emphasise in the text the need to include additional product groups in the draft regulation, namely milk drinks for young children and food for people allergic to gluten.
written − the commission has proposed to declare 2013 the european year of citizens in order to raise awareness of the benefits and rights of eu citizenship and to encourage active participation in union policy-making. public involvement is an essential part of democratic governance. properly planned and facilitated public consultations are one of the main tools at the heart of eu transparency policy, but their potential to bridge the communication and information gap between citizens and the eu has not yet been fully exploited. i consider it essential that the commission should seek to ensure that the right of every eu citizen to address the eu institutions in any of the official languages of the eu is fully respected and implemented, by making public consultations available in all the official languages of the eu, by providing equal access to all consultations and by ensuring that there is no discrimination between consultations on the basis of language. it is important that all consultations are understandable to ordinary citizens and that they are sufficiently long to allow for increased participation. i also consider it equally important that the commission guarantees the right of people with disabilities to participate in consultations through accessible formats that would facilitate their communication.
in writing − respect for human rights and freedom of identity, culture, religion and association are fundamental principles of the eu and its foreign policy. unfortunately, the eu-china human rights dialogue has not brought any significant changes to the human rights situation of tibetans. the people's republic of china's governing authorities used excessive force to suppress protests in tibet in 2008 and have since implemented restrictive security measures that impede freedom of expression, association and religion. in tibetan prisons, the authorities of the people's republic of china allegedly resort to torture, such as beatings, use of electroshock weapons, long-term solitary confinement, starvation and similar measures, in order to extract confessions. i find the continued crackdown by the chinese authorities on tibetan monasteries reprehensible and in this context it is imperative that the chinese government guarantees freedom of religion to the tibetan people and all its citizens. the eu-people's republic of china strategic partnership should be based on common principles and values. i consider it justified that an eu special representative for tibet be appointed to strengthen respect for the human rights of tibetans, including their right to preserve and develop a distinct identity and religious, cultural and linguistic expressions.
in writing − the single market is one of the key engines of economic growth and employment in the european union. however, in many areas, europeans are not yet exploiting its full potential. this is why new incentives are needed, in particular to ensure genuine labour mobility in europe, together with adequate social cohesion, and also to facilitate cross-border sales and purchases. the current economic downturn and the re-introduction of protectionist economic approaches in the member states are jeopardising some of the most visible achievements of the european integration process. the single market is now more necessary than ever to revitalise the european economy. the internal market act itself is the result of a broad consultation process between the institutions and with stakeholders. i think that the immediate priority should be to adopt the 12 key actions of the single market act, in particular those that will facilitate the completion of the digital single market, preferably by the end of 2012. i consider it important to maintain the momentum achieved by the internal market act. it should become an ongoing programme, updated and evaluated annually, and should also address the eu's socio-economic challenges and aim for a market that serves citizens.
written − the eu regulatory framework for company law and corporate governance needs to be adapted to take account of the growing trend of european companies to operate with a cross-border dimension within the eu, as well as the ongoing integration of european markets. the overall objective is to enable companies in europe to compete more effectively and achieve more in a highly competitive global environment, while ensuring that the interests of creditors, shareholders, members and employees are adequately protected. i believe that all future initiatives should be in line with national corporate governance systems and national legislation on employee involvement, while seeking greater flexibility and freedom of choice with regard to the legal forms of companies, internal division of responsibilities and sustainable corporate strategies. the financial crisis has highlighted the need for a clear corporate governance framework that focuses more on stakeholder participation. i believe that eu company law forms complementing existing forms available under national law have significant potential and should be further developed and promoted.
in writing − if you have europe has learned many lessons from the recent financial and economic crisis. it is now very clear that in the european union - and even more so in the monetary union - our economies and our successes and failures are linked. although the union has several instruments for economic policy coordination, the crisis has shown that they have not been fully used and that there are gaps in the current system of governance. the european union has made efforts to adopt such measures in order to overcome the crisis and at the same time to learn from it for the future. the european recovery plan implemented in 2008 helped to mitigate the shocks caused by the economic downturn in our economies. coordinated support was provided to those eu member states that needed it, and measures were also applied to safeguard the stability of the economic and monetary union. now that the europe 2020 framework is in place, several initiatives are being proposed to unlock the eu's potential to boost growth and create jobs. i believe that the union needs a well-defined policy approach to promote economic recovery, restore the health of public finances and, above all, actively promote sustainable growth and jobs.
in writing − if you have due to persistent structural weaknesses and the economic crisis, the unemployment rate in the eu increased from 9,5% to 10,2% between 2010 and 2012, corresponding to a loss of 6 million jobs since 2008. to meet the europe 2020 targets, 17.6 million new jobs will need to be created and 75% of people aged 20-64 will need to be employed. the reduction of the tax-deductible burden on labour should be promoted in a budget-neutral manner. the shift from a labour tax to a capital and consumption tax can mean more jobs and more wages. the european investment pact needs to be enforced, employment in the health and social care sector needs to be addressed, cohesion and rural development policies need to be developed, and youth employment and education needs to be promoted. i support the ep's resolution on this matter.
written − female genital mutilation is an irreparable abuse that intentionally and not for health reasons alters or damages the female genital organs, has irreversible consequences and currently affects 140 million women and girls. i am deeply convinced that this harmful practice cannot in any way be justified on the basis of observance of different cultural traditions or initiation rituals. in addition to being a violation of human rights by its very nature, fgm causes serious and irreparable short-term and long-term damage to the physical and mental health of women and girls who are subjected to it, constitutes a serious attack on their personality and integrity and in some cases may even result in their death. i believe it is essential to support civil society, especially women's organisations, which are working within their communities to end violence against women and female genital mutilation. last but not least, it is important that eu member states also take decisive action to combat this illegal practice.
in writing − if you have according to the findings of the french health authorities, a french manufacturer (poly implant prothèse) is under investigation for fraudulently using a low-quality material (industrial silicone) that does not correspond to the material indicated by the manufacturer in the documentation for the purpose of conformity assessment (approved medical silicone). there is no european-wide registration of breast implants, the total number of women who have received implants is not known, but based on the data available from the european commission, it is estimated that around 400 000 pip silicone breast implants have been sold worldwide. i believe that patients need to know that implants don't last a lifetime, and they may need to be replaced or removed. patients must also be informed of the quality of the implants and the potential risks associated with them. despite this, the transposition of eu medical device legislation into national law has not prevented this healthcare fraud, which has had and will have serious negative health consequences worldwide. it is in this context that i consider it justified for member states to inform more effectively about the possible risks of cosmetic surgery and to better regulate the promotion of cosmetic surgery in order to ensure that both women and patients are fully aware of the risks and benefits. it is also appropriate to develop an appropriate legal framework to guarantee the safety of medical devices in general.
for the efd group in the sahara, long-term alternation of drought and floods has left the people of the region in extreme poverty with no way out. the backwardness, poverty, and hunger of the population, combined with a bad, corrupt public administration, create a breeding ground for crime, terrorism, corruption, and violence. the return of gaddafi's libyan mercenaries, who are returning to niger, mali, chad and mauritania with large quantities of weapons, ammunition and combat equipment, is destabilising the region and making the civilian population the helpless slaves of the criminal gangs that control the regions. despite this complex and opaque situation in the region, we must find a way to effectively assist the civilian population in the region, in particular women and children, who are most affected by the consequences of this situation. where possible, we should strengthen the distribution of basic food aid to the most vulnerable groups of the population through legitimate structures, albeit often weak and corrupt public administrations. however, alongside food aid, we must maintain and develop contact with local communities and guide them to social and work habits and community management that will enable them to survive in their difficult conditions. however, the elimination of terrorist gangs and the seizure of illegal weapons must be the responsibility of the official governments and therefore the work of the joint steering operational committee set up by algeria, mali, mauritania and niger should be supported.
for the efd group i believe that the reason for the unresolved state of impunity in the philippines is either the weak position of the official structures of the state or the linkage of some of these circles with the private armies operating in the country with the consent of the state. in any case, our partners in seeking to redress the inaction of the official law enforcement agencies in the philippines must be the governmental institutions. in the civilized world, it is inexcusable for the government of a country to delegate the performance of security and law enforcement activities to some private entities whose activities it cannot control and for whose activities it does not want to bear official responsibility before its citizens or the world public. president aquino's game of hide-and-seek is just an arrogant alibi and we must not accept it. therefore, we must strongly demand the philippines government to fulfill its human rights obligations and remind it of its full responsibility for the impunity of murder in this country.
− author iranian political representation has long had problems with respect for internationally recognised human rights. ethnic minorities are also paying the price for the state-implemented policy of radical islam in this country. our call on the iranian authorities to respect the right of ethnic minorities to use their own language in private and public communication, to allow minorities freedom of religion and to stop discrimination, persecution of minorities, and the use of the death penalty for converts from islam is very important. it is important because even if the arrogant iranian administration does not make any changes today, it knows that europe is watching it and the world is watching it, and it will know that in the future it will be held accountable for its arrogant minority policies.
the objective of the revision of council regulation no 3821/eec on recording equipment in road transport and regulation no 561 of the european parliament and of the council on the working time of drivers in the coach and bus transport sector is to optimise the rules for the exercise of the activity of drivers and to make the functions of the tachographs used for recording and checking compliance with the relevant regulations more efficient. it is rather difficult to fit diverse and specific transport activities into one regulatory framework and it is therefore natural that in some cases the specific working conditions of drivers need to be taken into account. an example is the transport of fresh concrete in the construction industry, which must be processed on the construction site, usually within 60 to 90 minutes of its production in the concrete mill. the driver spends only a short time behind the wheel of the car wash truck transporting fresh concrete. in my country, fresh concrete is only transported on average for a distance of 12 to 15 km. thus, most of the driver's working time is spent either waiting for the concrete to be loaded at the factory or unloaded at the construction site. if the driver had to apply the prescribed 45-minute break during the concrete application, this would certainly cause him to deteriorate the transported concrete mixture. i would therefore ask you to support amendment no 120 to the report submitted, which will enable us to create the necessary conditions for the smooth operation of drivers in the specific field of transport of construction materials.
i would like to take this opportunity to remind you that new reduced ceilings on mobile operators' roaming charges came into effect only yesterday. such regulation would not be possible without the existence of a single european market. it would not be possible without the close cooperation of the european institutions. it is also a measure that every eu citizen will feel in his or her wallet, especially during the holiday season. i understand why, especially in recent months, the actions of european union officials have aroused the indignation and often justified criticism of citizens. but at the same time, i am convinced that the european project makes sense. it is important that we focus on practical problems of everyday life instead of useless discussion of political union.
can you imagine that a parliamentary committee of the russian duma dealing with the issue of the status of the russian minority in neighboring countries would go to latvia or georgia, for example, and without any information to the parliamentary institutions of these sovereign states, would demonstrate there, not on the territory of russian governorates, but on the sovereign territory of these countries, and hold official talks on what, in the opinion of russian politicians, the welfare of russians in latvia or georgia should look like? you say, "well, that's the kind of nonsense you don't have to think about". however, a few days ago, the committee for cooperation of the hungarian parliament, without any diplomatic communication with the slovak state authorities, provocatively held official negotiations on the territory of the overthrown slovak republic. hungarian mps first rented the premises of the university in slovak komárna like thieves, quietly, secretly, and then came to the academic grounds to negotiate and decide what the slovak government should do for the welfare of those hungarians who now live on the territory of slovakia. was it really just a failure to inform and be polite in international relations bypassing diplomatic protocol, as some hungarian actors of the event claim, or another profound display of disrespect for the neighboring nation?
in the current situation, the european union and each of its member states are indeed facing enormous problems. these problems are not only economic, financial, but above all social. and it is very important now that the individual member states work well together, that they have good relations with each other and that an atmosphere of good partnership and equal relations begins to reign in europe. i must therefore join my colleague in saying that i am deeply concerned that a committee of the hungarian parliament has been negotiating on the territory of a member state of the european union, the slovak republic, without the hungarian colleagues having consulted such negotiations beforehand - as the diplomatic protocol ultimately dictates - with their partners in the slovak republic. the slovak government really wants very good relations with all its partner countries and with all its neighbours, and we believe that such good relations will be desired in the future by the government in hungary, if not, of course, by the fidesz government.
difficulty in implementing legislation with long transition periods without emphasis on enforcement in application practice creates a space for various fraudsters. a classic example of this is the 1999 council directive on the protection of laying hens. the european union has been implementing the abolition of caging for 12 years, and although the day of its general implementation was 1 january 2012, not all countries were ready for this step. hungary, france, spain and poland requested last-minute deferrals and it is questionable whether they actually managed to move all laying hens by that date. today, the question is what happens to eggs from farms that do not comply with the directive. the latest food scandal in slovakia began in mid-july this year with an outbreak of salmonellosis in three schools in komárno. clinical manifestations of the disease were seen in 56 children. after searching for the source of the infection, veterinarians discovered eggs with false country of origin labels. according to the ministry, about 2 million such eggs were placed on the slovak market.
we know that the report deals with a very important issue. with the new system, we want to help save as many european union citizens as possible who are at risk. however, the added value of the european ecall system will depend on a responsible and effective approach by the member states. let me briefly describe the activities of the slovak republic in preparing this system. we have developed a national training programme for operational rescue workers across all rescue services. because we believe that education is the key to making the whole program work. the training is in the field of information and communication technologies and language studies. these are not just the main eu languages, but also regional languages. the comprehensive training is complemented by psychomotor and communication training. i'm glad the whole project is funded by the european union.
i agree with the report's finding that europe's comparative advantages over other regions include, in particular, an educated and well-informed population, a well-developed technical infrastructure and a large and relatively good advanced technological base. however, i believe that one of the main problems facing the european union is energy self-sufficiency, or the ability to provide additional energy sources for new investments. and here, i think, we need to build networks both transcontinental and connectivity to new energy sources that are outside our continent. the other problem i would like to highlight is the fact that european producers themselves are leaving europe for russia, china, brazil and so on. this means that we are probably creating conditions for investors and for domestic investors that are worse than those in the countries they are leaving.
in our eastern partnership talks, it seems to me that very often we put a key emphasis on teaching our partners how to govern their countries. but we are not doing very well in activating the economic potential of our cooperation. our nearest significant eastern neighbour is ukraine. greater openness to cooperation with this country could provide a significant economic boost to europe. i am convinced that if we could overcome the visa restrictions, many ukrainians would be willing to come to the south of europe, to spain, greece, italy, and would be very happy to explore these parts of europe as tourists. it would mean work for people in hard-hit areas of the european union. on the other hand, the well-situated ukrainian middle class is able to buy a large amount of products from european producers. unfortunately, the movement, the exchange of goods is such that it is limited, limited by certain political barriers. we should therefore try to overcome these limitations and promote cooperation.
in writing the eu's macro-regional strategies represent growth and prosperity for the whole of europe. cooperation between member states at the transnational macro-regional level is able to address the systemic and content-related problems of the structural funds, while eliminating the risk of failure of the individual member state. the creation of the baltic sea strategy and the danube strategy was a good decision, but in order to ensure the overall success of this process, the governance structure needs to be extended to local and regional authorities and, at the same time, the strategies need to be integrated into the next programming period 2014-2020. i agree with the motion for a resolution to introduce a binding allocation of funds for operational programmes to macro-regional priorities, to promote growth and employment and to apply new innovative cooperation instruments at transnational macro-regional level.
the outcome of the summit reassured me, as europe's future growth seemed certain. and it will only cost 120 billion euros. half of this will be provided by the european investment bank and the other half by the structural funds. so what if some states don't even make it to the first half? for example, despite ongoing reforms, ireland will not be able to apply for funds from the european investment bank because its rating and the irish banks' ratings are not eligible for loans. and maybe some more. worse, all the funds considered for growth-boosting projects are co-financed. in other words, it takes account of the financial contribution of the member states or private investors, such as banks. the member states and the banking sector are the ones with the biggest funding problems today. i would therefore ask you, mr president of the european commission, to confirm once again that a better future for the european union is already in sight. because if it is not, then the whole growth pact is just a symbolic gesture, and i think that responsible european politicians should not make gestures, but look for real solutions to the problems.
the council's main focus during the summit was on growth, which is undoubtedly crucial to the future direction of the union. but it is vital that we move from discussions and findings to concrete solutions, because only these will move us forward at this point. we urgently need a clear strategy that will realistically support growth and can create new jobs. only closer integration offers a chance to overcome the current crisis. that is why i propose that we put an end to the eurosceptic debate and start working together for a better and united europe for all. the adoption of anti-crisis measures must be carried out in a spirit of mutual solidarity. i cannot therefore agree with the budget cuts that affect the people of the european union, but i do support the focus on the financial institutions, which should finally take their share of the blame for the current state of affairs.
the quality of drinking water is not to be taken lightly. for many years, as a doctor myself, i have observed laboratory findings that water for daily use is indirectly enriched with hormones that are dangerous to human health, especially to the fertility of women and men. this is also explicitly stated in the report on which we voted, which i supported, and i congratulate my colleague mr seeber. in the resolution, parliament asks the commission to follow up this issue. we find that residues of antibiotics, other drugs and hormones from the birth control pills are present in the water. allowing the water to be polluted with the hormones present is a criminal offense. the european commission should ensure that controls are intensified to prevent substances that not only pollute water and endanger health but also have a direct impact on the deterioration of the demographic situation from being eliminated from water.
when we talk about ecall and the new 112 services for citizens, it should be said that 40 000 people die in road accidents every year and 150 000 suffer serious injuries with permanent consequences. by integrating ecall into in-vehicle computers, up to 2 500 lives could be saved every year and the severity of injuries reduced by 10 to 15 per cent. since it is a matter of saving lives, i believe that ecall should be free of charge and that the system should be easy to use, accessible to all citizens of the european union, regardless of social status and whether services are covered by, for example, private services or other public emergency services. i call on car manufacturers to build in a system capable of triggering ecall at the point of production, and on mobile network operators to relay ecall to emergency response centres.
in writing − if you have directive 2009/138/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 13 july 2009 on the taking-up and pursuit of the business of insurance and reinsurance (solvency ii) provides for a modern risk-based system for the regulation and supervision of european insurance and reinsurance undertakings. these new rules are essential to ensure a safe and reliable insurance industry that can provide sustainable insurance products and support the real economy through long-term investment and additional stability. in january 2011, the commission adopted a proposal to amend directive 2009/138/ec to take account of the new architecture of insurance supervision and in particular the establishment of the european insurance and occupational pensions authority (eiopa) (omnibus ii). that proposal also includes provisions for the extension of the dates for transposition, repeal and application laid down in that directive. in order to avoid unduly burdensome legislative obligations for member states under the directive and later in the context of the new architecture envisaged in the omnibus ii proposal, it is appropriate to extend the deadline for transposition of the said directive. at the same time, given the very short time-limits laid down in the directive, this directive should enter into force immediately.
in writing − the council decision of 27 november 2001 on the association of the overseas countries and territories with the european community establishes a legal framework to promote the economic and social development of the overseas countries and territories and to strengthen economic relations between them and the european union. the decision in question applies until 31 december 2013 and annex ia thereto needs to be amended to take account of the change of status of the island of saint barthélemy in relation to the european union, which becomes an overseas country and territory as from 1 january 2012. i consider that this amendment to the statute responds to the needs and specificities of the territory of saint barthélemy without jeopardising the interests of the union. i therefore consider it justified to approve the commission's proposal. this change of status will enable saint barthélemy to strengthen its relations with regional actors, and in particular with the overseas countries and territories, the outermost regions of the caribbean, and thus contribute to a better dissemination of the european model and european values.
written − the baltic sea macro-region, created in 2009, is a coherent group of territories whose mission is to cooperate in order to better address the economic and environmental problems arising in them. this cooperation has taken the form of a macro-regional strategy designed to coordinate the already strong sectoral cooperation built on the four pillars environment, prosperity, accessibility and security and an action plan focusing on 15 priorities and 80 major projects. macro-regional strategies open up new perspectives for territorial cooperation projects supported by cohesion policy. they can complement major union strategies such as the trans-european transport networks or the integrated maritime policy. they can bring better coherence with the regional programmes and objectives of the european parliament's 2020 strategy. the mediterranean region has the same natural environment, with the same history and culture linking its entire coastline. there is a strong potential in the south of europe which cannot be exploited without the coordination and coherence that can result from the definition of a macro-regional strategy. the dynamic development of the mediterranean can be a driving force for the whole european economy. i believe that the european countries and the mediterranean regions must be involved in a process of closer cooperation. it must also be open to all partners in this area, which is so important for europe's future. the macro-regional strategy is the means to achieve this.
in writing − rail transport experienced a great boom during the 19th century and the first half of the 20th century. however, with the increasing popularity of road and air transport, it is preferred less and less. in an effort to remedy the situation, the european union has adopted a number of legislative measures aimed at reviving interest in railways by gradually creating a so-called single european railway area. in the past, it has presented a number of packages and directives, declaring its intention to reform the regulatory framework, to ensure the integration of the rail transport sector at european level and to enable it to compete with other modes of transport under the best possible conditions. the transport policy of the european union has set itself the objective of building an internal market, in particular by developing common policies, in order to achieve competitiveness also in the field of transport. i am convinced that it is desirable to make the necessary efforts to build a comprehensive and integrated european railway area. in my view, the common interests of the european union as a whole - as far as the railway sector is concerned - should take precedence over the interests of individual countries. there is a need to build a genuine european railway area, while respecting safety requirements should not be forgotten and this should play a greater role in the licensing of railway operators.
written − the ep supports ambitious proposals to establish a single european railway area. national railway systems separated by national borders severely restrict the development and competitiveness of this sector compared to other modes of transport. the council weakened these proposals in its text. however, the proposed text strengthens the role and powers of the national regulatory authorities. in the long term, it is proposed to create a european regulatory body to oversee cross-border transport. it should be preceded by a network of national regulatory authorities. the ep also calls for the conditions to be created for a more stable situation in the financing of railway infrastructure and for greater transparency of financial flows, especially within integrated undertakings providing both services and infrastructure management. i supported parliament's position.
written − the european union is establishing social legislation in road transport to increase road safety, improve working conditions for drivers and ensure fair competition between transport undertakings. this regulation lays down harmonised maximum daily and weekly driving times and minimum daily and weekly rest periods for drivers. at the same time, the union has developed a comprehensive policy of inspections and controls on compliance with social legislation in road transport. this policy has two basic pillars - one is the directive setting a minimum level of roadside checks and on-the-spot checks to be carried out by member states, and the other is the tachograph regulation. the commission has identified two problems in the current system that need to be addressed at union level: social rules are too often violated and the tachograph system is not effective enough. in july last year, the european commission proposed a revision of the tachograph regulation, with the aim of making fraud more difficult, better enforcing social rules and reducing the administrative burden through the full use of new technologies and the introduction of several new regulatory measures. i am convinced that none of the objectives of the proposal will be easily achieved unless the member states commit themselves to improving the enforcement of this regulation, which needs to be amended accordingly.
written − regulation (ec) no 561/2006 provides for harmonised maximum daily and weekly driving times and minimum daily and weekly rest periods for drivers. these rules apply to all drivers of goods vehicles over 3,5 tonnes and to drivers of passenger vehicles over 9 and more passengers. according to commission figures, on average 9% of vehicles inspected are found to be in breach of social rules. about a quarter of them are tachograph violations. an average of 45 000 vehicles are in breach of eu tachograph rules at any given time. companies that do not comply with the legislation gain a competitive advantage, as personnel costs represent 30 to 50% of operating costs. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing systems, such as the electronic data-processing system, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data-processing systems.
in writing − intellectual property rights (ipr) are essential for innovation, which is a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is estimated that piracy and counterfeiting cost european businesses eur 250 billion a year. in addition to the negative impact on businesses, infringements of those rights can also pose a serious threat to the health and safety of consumers. in 2010, 14,5% of the total quantity of goods seized were everyday goods and products that could be dangerous to the health and safety of consumers. and while customs authorities are reasonably well placed to effectively enforce vat at the eu's external borders before goods enter the internal market, once goods have spread to several member states, it is much more difficult and costly to trace them and initiate the appropriate procedure. in this context, i consider it important to emphasise that the proposed regulation should provide for procedures enabling customs authorities to prevent the movement of goods suspected of infringing vat. the determination of vat infringements will, on the contrary, be based exclusively on the substantive eu intellectual property law or the laws of the member states.
in writing − intellectual property rights are essential for innovation, which is a key priority of the europe 2020 strategy to ensure smart, sustainable and inclusive growth. it is estimated that piracy and counterfeiting cost european businesses eur 250 billion a year. between 2009 and 2010, the number of counterfeiting and piracy cases almost doubled. 200% of the increase in such goods was recorded in online sales, mostly clothing, electronics and pharmaceuticals. customs authorities are well placed to enforce intellectual property rights effectively at the eu's external borders. in order to strengthen the exercise of these rights, a revision of the relevant eu directive is proposed and i support the ep's positive opinion on its adoption.
in writing - water is essential for life. it is demonstrably the most important of all public goods. urbanization, population growth, overconsumption, biological and chemical pollution, hydromorphological changes and climate change are putting increasing pressure on the availability and quality of safe and secure water. future economic growth cannot be sustainable if it is associated with adverse environmental impacts on water. current water legislation provides a solid framework for sustainable and efficient water management. the water framework directive, adopted in 2000, in particular, can be seen as a milestone in european water management. however, the pace of implementation of this directive in european countries and regions is slow with very mixed results. i consider it important to promote the issue of water in all policy areas. the protection of water resources, with particular reference to drinking water, needs to be addressed in a global perspective, taking into account all ecosystem services supported by water. also, climate change mitigation and adaptation policies must always take into account the impact on water resources, and the eu should address this issue in a comprehensive way. i am of the opinion that decisive action at eu level will be needed to address the current and future water management challenges facing europe.
in writing − the need for a comprehensive approach to european water problems is of the utmost relevance. water is the basis of every ecosystem, and its efficient use and protection must also be a priority for european legislation. the annual floods, weather fluctuations, extreme droughts, landslides are all the result of poor water management and inefficient use in the energy and agriculture sectors, which are the largest water users. protecting the soil is a key element in maintaining water quality, but also water supply. in view of biodiversity, rapid afforestation of areas that have been subject to frequent flooding in recent years in individual member states is necessary. we know the causes of water mismanagement, but we do little to save it. i therefore voted in favour of the resolution text so that decisive eu action in this area can contribute to the protection of waters and biodiversity.
in writing − if you have more than 40,000 people die each year in traffic accidents. 150,000 people will suffer an accident resulting in permanent disability. meanwhile, according to estimates by the world bank and the world health organization, road traffic accidents are expected to increase in all parts of the world and will be the third leading cause of death by 2020. these predictions are alarming. the european union cannot stand by and watch such adverse developments. that is why i am in favour of the introduction of a pan-european ecall system. indeed, official statistics estimate that the full integration of ecall in vehicles in the eu member states will save 2 500 lives a year, while reducing the severity of injuries by 10 to 15%. this will be achieved by faster arrival of emergency services at the scene of an accident, ecall will reduce congestion times and contribute to the efficiency of road transport across the eu. in addition, the service will allow support for many other commercial services increasing safety and economic benefits. at the same time, it is equally important to ensure that the system is in full compliance with the relevant data protection and privacy regulations. also, if the service is to fulfil its purpose, namely to reduce the number of deaths and the severity of injuries in road accidents, it must in any case be free of charge, for the benefit of all drivers, regardless of the make of the motor vehicle.
in writing − in the event of a serious accident, a vehicle equipped with ecall will automatically initiate an emergency call and send an emergency message containing basic information on the time, location, direction of travel and vehicle description. this improves the efficiency of the rescue services. the introduction of the system requires car manufacturers to install an on-board system capable of triggering ecall, mobile network operators to enable the transmission of ecalls and member states to modernise their emergency call centres. in 2011, the commission adopted a recommendation calling for appropriate measures to be taken for the deployment of ecall by the end of 2014. the ep asks that the recommendation be followed up by a delegated act, with a deadline for adoption by the end of 2012, in the form of a directive that will bindingly define the necessary specifications. i agree with the ep's position.
in writing. − each year, 39 000 people die in traffic accidents in the eu and more than 1.2 million passengers are injured. these alarming statistics point to the fact that road safety concerns every eu citizen. our task is therefore to support proposals that would reduce road fatalities and take a step forward in road safety. ecall is one of the modern intelligent traffic safety systems whose task is to automatically call the emergency services in the event of an accident, without any effort being required by the driver who may be injured or unconscious. the quick and timely response of rescuers is often crucial. in the case of serious injuries, every minute counts. ecall is a major challenge for eu transport policies. given the time it has taken the eu to work out the details of the system, it is high time that it was finally harmonised in all member states by 2003. the only negative aspect may be the slightly increased cost of purchasing the motor vehicles, but it should be noted that in the case of series production this would be a marginal amount, which is negligible in comparison with the number of lives saved.
in writing − the volatility of international financial markets is currently high. the huge debt and rising oil prices pose significant risks for the future. it is necessary and important to seek solutions to reduce such risks of adverse developments. structural problems, rising unemployment, development disparities, global imbalances - these are all current problems to which we must respond appropriately and urgently address them in a spirit of cooperation and social solidarity. the union is the largest regional destination for foreign direct investment, with a quarter of all global consumption and investment taking place within its expanding borders. the european market attracts foreign investors for a number of reasons, such as human capital, a predictable business environment, high research potential, and an emphasis on corporate social responsibility. yet we are not living up to the potential of the european union, and investors are deterred by high taxes and a huge public debt. global competition from emerging economies is growing steadily. in this context, the eu's single internal market is of particular importance. that is one of our highest priorities. with 500 million consumers, it offers huge benefits for investors, so we must continue to develop it and support those regimes that facilitate and encourage investment in the eu. i am deeply convinced that in times of crisis, we must use our strengths more than ever.
in writing − europe must now respond appropriately to the challenges of stabilising the international economy. the eu is the largest trading bloc in the world and europe remains the largest regional destination for foreign direct investment. this flow to europe is dominated by the us, which accounted for one third of eu foreign direct investment in 2008. this was 25 times the corresponding share of china. switzerland and canada also contributed significantly to fdi flows. attracting investment in europe will require action and reforms at both european and national levels. together with the us, the eu provides about three quarters of global financial services. the ep welcomes the measures in this area as well as the proposal to set up european venture capital funds. i support the ep's position on attracting investment to europe.
in writing. − structural problems, rising unemployment and uncertainty continue to have a negative impact on global growth challenges. to make europe more attractive to investors, these shortcomings need to be addressed, measures and reforms needed at both european and national levels. banks are facing financing difficulties due to uncertainty and therefore strong measures are needed to further develop financial markets. i agree that the european union economy needs a financial sector that supports real economies, ensures stability and is able to serve the financial needs of households and businesses. smes are facing increasing difficulties in accessing funding and therefore member states should implement regulatory measures to facilitate the financing of smes, which are often the engines of growth at local level. adequate funding for cohesion policy is also important, as it helps to highlight the benefits and innovation potential of regions and their role in growth, investment and employment. the potential of historical heritage should also be exploited by promoting cultural industries, sport and tourism, which represent a growing and attractive market. i agree with the rapporteur and therefore voted in favour of the report. investments should address the specific needs of each region and member state, with appropriate involvement of local communities.
in writing − the ongoing crisis highlights the urgent need to mobilise union policies to fully support growth and to step up financing of the eu economy through investment. this is of course not achievable without effective structural reforms to improve the business environment and create jobs in all eu regions. with 500 million consumers, the european single market offers huge benefits for investors, and the eu has traditionally had a high potential to attract foreign direct investment. however, the european union must be able to harness the enormous potential of the world's largest single market in order to find a comprehensive solution to the debt crisis affecting citizens and businesses. i therefore believe that, in addition to making europe an attractive destination for foreign investors, it is important to create favourable business conditions for local entrepreneurs, who continue to face many obstacles in the internal market. domestic investment in the union should help to make the environment attractive not only for foreign direct investment but for overall investment and business in the internal market, through the upgrading of sustainable infrastructure for business, education, research and development. for these reasons, i support the report on the attractiveness of investment in europe.
in writing − if you have after the previous events commonly known as the arab spring, our attention turned to the european union's southern neighbours. but the eastern partnership countries and the union's trade relations with them must not be forgotten. our neighbors to the east are former members of the soviet union. they share the same historical origins and have been working for the last 20 years for political and social democratic transformation. four of the six eastern partnership countries of the european union are already members of the world trade organisation (wto). the other two countries have observer status. the primary objective of the european union's neighbourhood policy in this area is the conclusion and implementation of agreements covering the free trade issues of the dcftas. they are of vital importance in the context of the union's bilateral trade policy and in line with our aspiration to achieve a stable, transparent and predictable economic environment. they are also essential in the fight against protectionism at the global level. at the same time, they go far beyond the commercial framework and also affect the state of democracy and respect for the rule of law. i consider it important to focus on the gradual removal of trade barriers, strengthening investment protection, streamlining customs and border procedures and reducing any technical barriers to trade. the eastern partnership countries are our strategic partners. and here too, striving to prevent conflict through economic and social cohesion must be one of our priorities.
i think we all know that the text of an international agreement agreed by many countries of the world can only be challenged if its provisions are flawed to the extent that it is not appropriate to implement them. the european parliament has acted responsibly throughout the preparation of this treaty and has sought to coordinate with the commission from the very beginning. the commission, however, has decided that there is no need to consult the representatives of the european citizens on such matters and today calls on us to approve the text, which the european public is clearly rebelling against. your appeal to our responsibility, commissioner, is misplaced. because you were irresponsible in drafting acta, allowing it to go through ratification without proper public communication. but if you feel, commissioner, that you have done your job well, please respect that the european parliament also has the right to interpret the citizens' opinion of the work done.
in writing. acta has been extremely controversial from the outset. counterfeiting and piracy have increased dramatically in recent times. such illegal activity has significant negative consequences, ranging from economic losses to threats to the health and safety of european consumers. the infringement of these rights undermines growth, competitiveness, innovation, causes significant losses to our companies every year and threatens jobs. i believe that the eu needs an effective tool to fight the protection of intellectual property rights! acta as currently drafted is not acceptable. it does not satisfy the requirement of a fair balance between the enforcement of intellectual property rights and fundamental rights such as freedom of expression, the right to privacy and the protection of personal data and the confidentiality of reports, or the right to a fair trial. if we want to protect and promote one set of fundamental rights guaranteed by the charter, we cannot put other kinds of fundamental rights at risk! key provisions of the act create a sense of legal uncertainty. the protection of human rights and fundamental freedoms is our absolute priority, but acta raises serious concerns. we need a modern instrument that does not compromise the rights guaranteed by the charter and the european convention as well. acta is unacceptable in its current form, and i therefore call on the commission to act swiftly and to come forward with new and better proposals for effective tools to combat counterfeiting and piracy.
in writing. international piracy and counterfeiting amount to approximately eur 150 billion annually. it is necessary to protect the rights of authors and to give them protection of their rights. breaches of those rights undermine growth, competitiveness and innovation. however, it is also necessary to consider sensitively whether the means of protection of rights enforced by the acta anti-counterfeiting agreement are adequate for the purpose for which they are to be used. the implications of the implementation of acta with regard to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union are in question. the protection of privacy and personal data has always been considered, together with freedom of expression, a key element of the european model. a binding interpretation and analysis that eliminates all doubt is therefore necessary. without them, without a review by the european court of justice and without a broad debate in which all the parties concerned are represented, i will not support our acceptance of the agreement into the legal system.
in writing. i am disappointed by the majority's attitude to acta, the international anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, and i disagree with the irresponsible counter-action of my colleagues, particularly from the left and the liberal camp. i believe that the right solution is for parliament to postpone the final vote and wait for the european court of justice to decide on the compatibility of the agreement with eu law and the infringement of freedoms. parliament can only make a responsible decision with the expert opinion of the court. the rejection of the european parliament's proposal will undermine the results of many years of international negotiations. i agree that the public, the citizens of the union, should be taken into account when important decisions affecting them are taken, but we cannot leave the shaping of legislation to manipulated mass demonstrations. critics of the agreement often do not even know the actual text of the agreement, and i believe that parliament should have acted differently to allay concerns about infringements. parliamentary legal opinions requested by the legal committee have also demonstrated that acta does not compromise personal rights, and that the contractual clauses used as a deterrent do not apply to proceedings by private individuals. the eu's competitiveness depends to a large extent on its achievements in the field of intellectual property rights, as the union is an innovative society. intellectual property rights are the engine of the union economy and their protection should be adequately ensured at international level. the debate around acta has shown that similarly important issues will need to be addressed with much more caution in the future.
in writing. the problem with acta is twofold: on the one hand, acta was started before the lisbon treaty, so the rules governing the ec were different and so it now works in a way that the commission negotiated it 'behind closed doors'. another, and probably the biggest, problem is the threat of restrictions on basic civil liberties. of course, intellectual property needs to be protected. so i'm not saying that everything in this agreement was negative, many of its elements are already in the regulations in force. however, we must do more to find a solution to protect intellectual property that takes into account the views of a broad cross-section of civil society. i would like to point out that, despite the fact that acta was not ratified, the debate on this document has created a situation where copyright has started to be taken into account. so in practice, the laws in this area have finally been used. it should also be noted that the non-approval of this document is a clear example of how any eu citizen can influence the decision-making of brussels. it was the individual citizens who, through their lobbying, activism and pointing out the weaknesses of the agreement, made many members correct or change their opinion on acta. i firmly believe that in the future, citizens will not hesitate to express their views on other important issues as well. because every decision we make involves them.
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on international trade. − madam president, as rapporteur for budgetary issues in the committee on international trade, i strongly support activity that stimulates economic growth, improves bilateral relations and contribute to global stability and solidarity. for that reason, i call for the maintenance of funding for aid for trade, ici/ica plus and mfa. i also call for improved funding to finance activity that directly contributes to higher growth and employment, such as the internationalisation of eu business through improved sme access to high-growth countries, assistance to trading partners in the southern and eastern neighbourhoods, as well as resources for the existing high-level dialogues with usa, russia, china and emerging countries. all these activities, if well executed, will prove very beneficial to all eu citizens. i want to congratulate the rapporteur, mr la via.
the economic situation in the european union will continue to be very difficult in 2013. i am therefore convinced that the european parliament should not get too involved in pushing the european commission's proposal to increase the union budget by more than 6%. nation states must increasingly save and at the same time invest in the development of their economies. i therefore believe that the european commission and the european parliament should also respect the european council's view on the redistribution of resources produced in the member states. we all know that we still have some reserves in the efficient use of resources. for example, we have long been returning to the usefulness of financing several european parliament buildings or the construction of a museum of european traditions. i am not saying that we should give up the resources to finance the necessary activities, but with a more realistic approach we could perhaps achieve more.
the presidency of the european union is being transferred to cyprus at a time when the socioeconomic situation in europe is rather complicated. the six months during which the cypriot government will coordinate the work of some european institutions in addition to its state responsibilities will therefore be a difficult period for the cypriot administration. the ambitious programme of the cypriot presidency presented to us today by president christofias indicates that cyprus has prepared responsibly for its new obligations towards the european union and is determined to play its part in consolidating economic and social life in the union. however, the unique position of the presidency in the dynamically changing middle east and mediterranean region can also be a bonus for the forthcoming european policy. i am convinced that with a good knowledge of local conditions, a proper sense of communication with the surrounding countries, cyprus, as the representative of the european union, will be able to make a significant contribution to strengthening the position of cyprus, as well as the whole european union in this area. i wish you, mr president christofias, every success in the next six months.
i would also like to welcome mr christofias and thank him for his speech. the cyprus presidency presented its fourth priority, entitled 'a europe in the world closer to its neighbours'. it will therefore focus on the southern partnership countries and seek to strengthen relations with the mediterranean partners. this focus is quite logically linked to the geographical location of cyprus. however, i would like to call on the cypriot presidency to build on the achievements of the danish presidency in the process of enlargement of the european union and to ensure continuity in this area. it is important that the western balkan countries proceed smoothly in the further stages of the accession process. in this regard, cyprus should also focus on issues related to reform processes, in particular the fight against corruption and organised crime. the western balkan countries still have many shortcomings in these areas and their removal would also contribute to ensuring a better europe, which is also one of the priorities of the cypriot presidency. i just want to remind you, because we don't always realize it, that the reform processes in the western balkans have a direct impact on the security of the european union. it is worth mentioning that the opening of accession negotiations with montenegro, the granting of candidate status to serbia, commissioner füle's brussels talks with the leading politicians from bosnia and herzegovina, and, finally, iceland's rapid progress in accession negotiations, all provide a good basis on which to build and continue the enlargement process. the cypriot presidency will therefore certainly benefit from investing in this process, as its suspension could have negative, irreversible consequences. in conclusion, i would also like to wish the cypriot presidency every success in fulfilling its ambitious plans.
mr president, like my colleagues, i welcome you to the european parliament. i wish your country a pleasant presidency and i will take this opportunity because i believe that open discussion is a good way to good relations. i would like to ask you, mr president, given that a large part of your programme is focused on combating the crisis and its impact how does your country see the two important instruments for combating the economic and financial crisis, namely the abolition of tax-favoured countries and also tax consolidation? i ask this question also because your country expects financial assistance from the esm and our member states will have to give their consent. and since i come from a country where the average salary of the population is less than 800 euros, i will have to explain to our citizens why it is important that we support such aid and whether your country is willing to inform you about our slovak entrepreneurs who use your business system in cyprus.
legitimate interests and consumer expectations in the quality of organic products require the rules to be applied adequately by the relevant public bodies, private bodies and operators. the current rules are not sufficiently clear, and consumers are often put in situations that can threaten or damage their health, and even lead to epidemics. the sound functioning of the single market and trade therefore requires the adoption of clear rules and the setting of conditions for the application of the regulation on organic production and labelling of organic products. i agree that substances for use in organic production, the production methods of processed foods, and the conditions for applying the ban on the use of gmos, products produced from gmos or with gmos need to be clearly defined. in the interest of legal certainty for consumers, it is also necessary to harmonise the labelling rules, requirements and specific criteria concerning the presentation, layout, size of the label and design of the organic production logo in the european union.
in writing, the treaty of lisbon abolishes the old comitology system, which was based on the classic comitology procedures (consultation, management and regulatory procedure) and the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. this system is now being replaced by a two-tier structure consisting of delegated and implementing acts (the first of which also includes the right of veto of the parliament) which allow the commission to exercise powers of introduction and implementation. the existing body of legislation therefore needs to be brought into line with this new legal reality. one of the first proposals is to align the current draft regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 73/2009 establishing common rules for direct support schemes for farmers under the common agricultural policy and establishing certain support schemes for farmers. the proposal contains adjustments in terms of harmonisation but also simplifies the said regulation. the proposal also contains a number of provisions aimed at simplifying the current legislative environment and reducing the administrative burden for member states. in the interests of greater legal clarity and certainty, i support the proposed amendments.
in writing − if you have council regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 confers powers on the commission to implement certain provisions of that regulation. as a consequence of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1698/2005 need to be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. pursuant to article 290 of the treaty (delegated acts), the legislator may, if appropriate, delegate to the commission the power to adopt non-legislative acts of general application to supplement or amend certain non-essential elements of a legislative act. as regards article 291 of the treaty (implementing acts), the legislator shall confer on the commission the power to adopt uniform conditions for the implementation of legally binding acts of the european union. in addition, some simplification elements are introduced in the current regulation, support is extended to the areas referred to in article 10 of the natural habitats and wildlife directive under natura 2000, and the number of annual progress reports and summary reports is reduced under the rural development programme, cross compliance checks are simplified and the rules for the use of advisory services are changed, and these elements should help to reduce the administrative burden on member states.
in writing − if you have the commission proposal aims to align council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 on a single common organisation of the markets with the new definition of the commission's delegated and implementing powers introduced by articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu). in addition, for the sake of completeness, this proposal includes the proposals for amendments to council regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 which the commission has already submitted separately to the european parliament and the council. articles 290 and 291 tfeu provide for a clear distinction between the powers delegated to the commission to adopt non-legislative acts on the one hand and the powers conferred on the commission to adopt implementing acts on the other. the proposed alignment of regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 with regard to the new requirements is based on the definition of the existing commission powers as 'delegated' and 'implementing' on the basis of the implementing measures adopted by the commission under its current powers. the proposal thus gives the legislator the power to define the basis for a common market organisation policy. i believe that it is necessary and important to strike a balance between the need for the commission to act effectively and efficiently and the powers which the treaty of lisbon confers on parliament and the council in relation to the legislative process.
in writing − if you have under the treaty of lisbon, the alignment of regulation (ec) no 1290/2005 with the new rules of the treaty is to be found in the classification of delegated and implementing powers in the provisions adopted by the commission for the application of that regulation. on the basis of the criteria set out in articles 290 and 291 for each type of act, the rapporteur has carefully examined the commission proposal and identified the areas in which the conditions for delegated acts were met. the proposal was subsequently examined in the light of the conditions laid down in the implementing acts. it is appropriate to amend the conditions of delegation in accordance with the joint agreement on the practical arrangements for the application of delegated acts adopted by the conference of presidents in march last year and with regulation no 182/2011 of the european parliament and of the council laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by member states of the commission's exercise of implementing powers. the simplification itself will be reflected in the abolition of two council regulations and a reduction in the administrative burden on member states.
in writing − if you have in order to better reflect consumer expectations in terms of the quality of organic products and to ensure the adequate application of the rules by the relevant public organisations, private organisations and operators, as well as the proper functioning of the single market and trade, the commission shall adopt, by means of delegated acts, the specific rules, measures and conditions necessary for the uniform application of regulation (ec) no 834/2007 in all member states. the commission should be empowered to adopt implementing acts in accordance with article 291 of the treaty and should also be empowered to adopt implementing acts concerning the allocation of numerical codes within the control system, the indication of the origin of products and uniform rules for the exchange of information to be sent by member states, third countries, national inspection bodies and private inspection bodies or to be made available by the commission, or for the publication of that information, as well as for the recognition of third countries and national inspection bodies and private inspection bodies for the purposes of equivalence and conformity. in the interest of clarity, the wording of the references to european standard en 45011 or to iso guideline 65 should be harmonised with other relevant union acts. for this reason, i consider it justified to amend regulation (ec) no 834/2007 accordingly.
in writing, the treaty of lisbon abolishes the old comitology system, which was based on the traditional comitology procedures (consultation, management, regulatory) and the regulatory procedure with scrutiny. this system is now replaced by a two-tier structure consisting of delegated and implementing acts (delegated acts also include the right of veto of parliament), which allows the commission to exercise powers in the field of the introduction and implementation of acts. the existing legislation should therefore be brought into line with this new legal reality. one of the first proposals is the harmonisation of this proposal for a regulation amending council regulation (ec) no 485/2008 on the control of measures taken by the member states in respect of the system of financing the european agricultural guarantee fund. the proposal shall be limited to adaptations which require alignment. on the basis of the treaty of lisbon, the powers conferred on the commission by regulation (ec) no 485/2009 need to be aligned with articles 290 and 291 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, which distinguish between two types of commission acts delegated acts and implementing acts. the parts of the wording of the articles that relate to delegation do not correspond to the standard wording for those articles as agreed in the joint arrangement or to the wording agreed by the institutions in regulation 438/2010, and i therefore consider that they need to be amended.
written − the eu-russia agreement on the maintenance of the commitments on trade in services contained in the eu-russia cooperation and partnership agreement is placed in the context of the new legal framework following russia's recent accession to the world trade organisation. the timetable for the liberalisation of trade in services contained in the multilateral package on russia's accession to the wto will provide significantly greater market access opportunities for foreign service providers. russia has agreed to reduce barriers to trade and investment and will ensure more favourable treatment of foreign service providers than in the past in 11 sectors, including professional services, information technology services, construction, postal services, telecommunications, media, transport, distribution, tourism and travel services and financial services. trade in services currently represents around 20% of european exports to russia. these commitments by russia will not only create more business opportunities for european businesses, but will also improve the situation for eu exporters and investors currently working with russia, including in the area of non-discrimination and free competition. increased competition should bring more services and a higher quality of services in russia in many areas, which could make it easier for all european companies established in russia to do business. i think it is appropriate for parliament to give its consent to the agreement.
in writing. − the government of the russian federation has been trying for several years to attract foreign manufacturers of automobiles and related components to its territory in order to offset the decline of its own automobile industry and to provide jobs for the workforce of this sector. under the terms of russia's accession to the wto agreed in november 2011 and approved by the european council, its automotive investment programme will be exempted from ensuring that all laws, regulations and other measures in force in the russian federation relating to trade and investment are, by 1 july 2018, in conformity with the provisions of the wto agreement, including the agreement on trade-related investment measures. the eu must accept this agreement as it is binding on its wto commitments. russia's accession to the wto will involve, inter alia, the implementation of the other commitments that membership brings, such as reforms in the associated areas of regulation and tariff reductions, from which eu producers would benefit immensely. finally, global external factors such as global demand for cars and global growth as well as domestic aspects in russia such as infrastructure development and business environment, all these factors can have a positive and negative impact on the growth of eu-russia trade in cars and motor vehicle components, which is difficult to estimate.
in writing, − the russian federation has undertaken to progressively reduce or eliminate its current export duties on specified raw materials in connection with its accession to the wto. these commitments concerning export duty rates are included in the list of concessions and commitments by russia concerning goods. the urgency and importance of a legally binding agreement on raw materials is clearly demonstrated by the recent ban on imports of livestock from any eu member state imposed by russia following the spread of the schmallenberg virus and bluetongue virus, even though such a ban is in clear breach of the rules of the world trade organisation. the introduction of this ban suggests that russia's approach has not changed much even after its accession to the wto. without a strong and legally binding bilateral agreement on raw materials, the eu will have no assurance that similar protectionist measures will not be taken in the future. the eu is russia's largest trading partner and largest investor in the country. it is therefore expected that a sufficiently serious commitment will be made to implement without delay the reforms required by wto accession, reciprocity and a commitment to negotiate a mutually beneficial new agreement, in particular in the areas of energy, trade and investment. i believe that parliament should give its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing negotiations on a trade agreement to combat counterfeiting started in june 2008 and ended in november 2010 after 11 rounds of negotiations. as with all international agreements, the european commission negotiated on behalf of the european union on the basis of a mandate given to it by the council. as the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement is a so-called mixed agreement, involving competences at both union and member state level, the member states were represented by rotating presidencies in the negotiations. the agreement was concluded by the european union, australia, canada, japan, korea, mexico, morocco, new zealand, singapore, switzerland and the united states of america. the agreement is, as defined by the negotiators, a trade agreement that addresses counterfeiting for commercial purposes and internet piracy by coordinating the global enforcement of existing copyright infringement legislation. the problems it is intended to address are real and are on the increase. counterfeiting and piracy have become widespread and continue to grow. the potential threats to civil liberties far outweigh the intended benefits of this international agreement. in view of the ambiguity of certain aspects and the uncertainty surrounding its interpretation, the european parliament cannot guarantee adequate protection of civil rights in the future after the entry into force of this agreement. for this reason too, it is not recommended that the european parliament should give its consent to its conclusion.
in writing − in advanced democratic societies, intellectual property protection is one of the recognised rights of authors, and the state has an interest in protecting rights that lead to the development of science, art, but also research and development. without the adoption of appropriate measures to protect intellectual property, europe, and therefore its citizens, loses more than eur 8 billion a year. the european economy, which is focused on creating new innovative solutions, is suffering from an influx of counterfeit goods from abroad, where companies do not hesitate to copy european products and then send their substandard substitutes to the european market. however, the hysteria around acta that we have witnessed in recent months has been based on a lot of falsehoods and deliberate misinformation about the real content of the agreement. in my view, intellectual property protection is the protection of the competitiveness of the european economy and at the same time the protection of the employment of people working in research and innovation. the profits derived from counterfeiting are those of organised commercial groups, and it is against them that this agreement is directed. on the contrary, ordinary citizens suffer because billions of euros in duties and taxes are not being put into the state budget, which could be used for things like health care and education.
in writing. − the eu loses hundreds of billions of euros a year to counterfeiting of all kinds of goods. acta was intended to provide more effective protection. however, the interest of citizens has also led to some doubts about some of the tools and practices for the protection of intellectual property. i am pleased that the commission has asked the european court of justice in luxembourg to interpret whether the provisions of this treaty are compatible with the eu charter of fundamental rights. no economic interest should be put above basic human rights. in the group of the european people's party we have accepted the recommendation to abstain from voting in the plenary, since most of us believe that parliament should await the opinion of the european court of justice.
in writing − if you have the commission proposal for a multiannual financial framework (mff) for the period 2014 to 2020 sets out the budgetary framework and broad guidelines of the common agricultural policy (cap). a common theme (in the interinstitutional debate as well as in stakeholder consultations) is the need to promote resource efficiency for the smart, sustainable and inclusive growth of eu agriculture and rural areas in line with the europe 2020 strategy, with the cap structure remaining based on two pillars that use complementary tools to pursue the same objectives. pillar i covers direct payments and market measures providing support for the annual basic income of farmers in the eu and support in the event of a specific market disturbance. pillar ii covers rural development, where member states propose and co-finance multiannual programmes under a common framework. sustainable production should be supported through direct payments by allocating 30% of the budget to mandatory measures that benefit the climate and the environment. the rural development issue should be included in a common strategic framework with the other eu funds under shared management. i also believe that it is equally appropriate to strengthen cap funding. this is done through two instruments: (1) the emergency reserve for crisis response and (2) the extension of the scope of the european globalisation adjustment fund.
in writing − if you have in april 2012, the european commission presented the draft european budget for 2013. a trialogue on this subject will then take place on 9 july 2012 with the council and the commission. the european budget is an effective instrument that plays an important role in the member states' efforts to overcome the current crisis. it is important to focus on three key areas: growth, employment and competitiveness. in this context, i consider the fight against youth unemployment and the support for small and medium-sized enterprises, which are the driving force of the european economy, to be key. at the same time, we need to focus financial resources on policies and programmes that are necessary to achieve the europe 2020 objectives. it is also necessary to focus on strategic investments within the internal market and on the eu's priorities in its external relations. to prevent and combat crime effectively, we need an adequate amount of funds! i am no less concerned about the very small increase in funding for the fundamental rights and citizenship programme. i am aware of the budgetary constraints that persist at national level, but i consider the prevention of crime, the promotion and protection of fundamental and civil rights and the fight against discrimination to be such important issues that i consider it very dangerous to cut funding in these areas!
in writing. − the 2013 budget proposal submitted by the commission foresees a 2% increase in commitment appropriations and a 6.8% increase in payment appropriations compared to 2012. the increase in payments is geared to the areas of competitiveness and cohesion, which is right. the volume of funds is clearly insufficient, which could lead to the collapse of billions of committed appropriations in cohesion policy. under the current proposal, the total payments made would amount to some eur 859 billion for the period 2007-13, eur 66 billion below the ceilings of the mff. this cumulative payment backlog can be illustrated by the fact that at the end of 2011, the eu had a backlog of eur 207 billion, and this figure may continue to grow. the reserve for 2013 is eur 2,4 billion in committed appropriations. i supported the ep's position.
in writing − a high level of animal welfare is very important. it is part of sustainable development and is important for the protection of animal health, public health, productivity and competitiveness. the existing national and eu-level rules are too complex and, together with a lack of information and different legal interpretations, create legal uncertainty. the fact that certain legislation on this issue is still seriously not being complied with is dangerous. non-harmonised standards and the absence of legislation distort competition and lead to unequal conditions. i believe that action should be taken in accordance with the latest scientific knowledge and proven experience. however, the commission has not put forward any new legislative proposals in the framework of the strategy! better enforcement is important, but without new rules we will not improve the lives of animals. the deterioration of the health status of wild animals, whose numbers are increasing, could lead to a greater spread of dangerous contagious diseases to domestic animals. the negative aspect is the lack of a link between animal health and public health. no less striking is the fact that the financial support that parliament had requested back in 2010 has still not been earmarked for the strategy. i believe that these shortcomings need to be addressed and that better and more coherent integration of this issue into other eu policies is needed.
in writing − animal welfare is part of the concept of sustainable development and is important for animal protection, public health, productivity and competitiveness. i personally think that the link between animal welfare and public health needs to be examined more closely. good animal husbandry, both of farm and domestic animals, is a tool to limit the spread of various diseases, epidemics and antimicrobial resistance or antibiotic resistance. another important step is to ensure effective control of animal welfare, including at european union level, which would oversee whether member states carry out their own inspections. however, such a measure requires an additional volume of funds for the food and veterinary office, which would control and sanction non-compliance. i also find the report positive in its clarity, pragmatism and its focus on improving the competitiveness and quality of products on the internal market and in trade with third countries.
in writing − if you have article 13 tfeu states that, since animals are sentient beings, the union and the member states must take utmost account of the requirements of their welfare. however, despite the estimated size of the eu pet population of over 100 million, there is no eu legislation on the protection of pets and stray animals. it is not uncommon for domestic and stray animals to be the victims of cruel treatment and mistreatment in many member states. in this context, i consider it essential that the member states ratify the european convention for the protection of pet animals and transpose its provisions into their national legal systems. it is necessary to propose a legal framework that includes rules for the identification and registration of animals, strategies for the management of stray animals, including vaccination and sterilisation programmes, a ban on unauthorised kennels and shelters and, last but not least, that also allows for the imposition of strict penalties on any member state that does not comply with these rules.
in writing − if you have the 2012 summer summit of the european council took place on 28 and 29 june 2012. during these negotiations, the council focused on the issue of growth, which is undoubtedly crucial to the future direction of the european union. it is vital, however, that we move quickly from discussions and observations to action and concrete action. we need to look at the long term, and we need a real strategy that will really support growth and help create new jobs. i also support steps towards closer integration. we have no chance of overcoming the current crisis unless we work together. i think it is necessary to stress once again that the adoption of anti-crisis measures must be carried out in a spirit of mutual solidarity. i do not agree with the budget cuts that affect the eu citizens who are perhaps most affected by the consequences of the crisis. i support measures such as the introduction of a financial transaction tax. because i think it's time for financial institutions to take their share of the blame for the current state of affairs. i also support the introduction of project bonds, the strengthening of the eib's lending capacity and the concept of european bonds on condition that these measures do not lead to a reduction in the financial responsibility and discipline of other countries. i am pleased to say that, in the june summit, mutual solidarity won out over the strict austerity policy, which in the end does not produce the desired results.
in writing − access to basic payment services is one of the basic prerequisites for consumers to enjoy the benefits of the internal market, in particular freedom of movement, money transfers and the purchase of goods and services with reasonable transaction costs. basic payment services are essential for consumers to benefit from e-commerce. access to basic payment services is also increasingly a condition for social inclusion in terms of access to employment, healthcare and housing. not all member states have taken the appropriate steps required by the commission in the recommendation on access to a basic payment account and in too many member states there are still no statutory or voluntary rules for providers to provide basic payment services. in the interest of efficiency, in my view, it should be easy to set up a basic payment account (free of charge or at a reasonable price) in order to provide a specified range of basic services. last but not least, anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing legislation should be applied in an appropriate manner and should never be used as an unjustified excuse to reject less commercially attractive consumers. in many cases, the payment service provider's existing requirements for setting up a basic payment account are restrictive and may impede cross-border mobility within the eu.
in writing − access to basic payment services is a prerequisite for enjoying the benefits of the internal market, in particular the freedom of movement, money transfers and the purchase of goods and services. the annual cost of not being able to access a payment account is estimated to be between eur 185 and eur 635 per consumer. currently, 7% of the eu's 30 million adults do not have a bank account, compared with up to 50% of the adult population in bulgaria and romania. in finland and denmark, almost 100% of the population uses payment services. in the interest of efficiency, it should be simple to set up a basic payment account. it is necessary to ensure that clear information is available to consumers. the ep calls for a detailed assessment of the situation in the member states and the preparation of a directive to ensure access to basic payment services for all consumers, to which i have given my consent.
in writing, european bank customers across the eu face different approaches to the provision of banking services. moreover, there is a form of discrimination in the assessment of applicants for access to a current bank account. it results in the refusal to provide those services. it is essential to make the provision of banking services transparent and to ensure that every consumer has the right to open a basic payment account. furthermore, it is necessary to lay down clear rules for payment service providers, while taking into account the specific needs of the socially disadvantaged population. in introducing future legislation, we must not forget in particular about affordability and ensuring that pricing conditions are as low as possible. the harmonisation of european legislation on the provision of banking services will, in my view, make a clear contribution to the deepening of the internal market and at the same time contribute to the development of cross-border trade. it will also increase the efficiency of banking services and make it easier and faster for european citizens to integrate into the european labour market.
there is no doubt that the european economy needs an effective stimulus to break the lingering stagnation. the assumption that innovative forms of financing of meaningful projects in the trans-european transport and energy networks will lead to faster implementation of these projects, technological progress and increased employment opportunities in the union can only be fulfilled if the funds used are effectively managed. testing new mechanisms in the pilot phase is certainly a sign of a certain caution in implementing this idea. therefore, from the outset, the european investment bank and the european commission should work with independent expertise to set the proposed system up at this stage to be sustainable and efficient in the long term with minimal risks. in any event, the main objective of these new forms of investment should not be simply to raise funds but, in particular, to make important investments with a demonstrable good return.
the creation of the schengen area is considered by the citizens of the eu member states to be one of our greatest achievements. as many as 62% of citizens in the eu member states surveyed said that this was the greatest common european achievement and benefit. and now, at a time when we need to show our citizens that we are ready for deeper cooperation, that deeper cooperation will strengthen the european union and take us further, now the council is coming forward with a proposal that is absolutely unacceptable to us. the fact that we can introduce controls for six months and then renew them for up to two years is simply unacceptable to us. we cannot agree to this decision. moreover, we think it is counterproductive, since it is a direct attack on the guarantees of free movement and freedom of movement. in conclusion, i would like to point out that it is becoming more and more common for the council to take such decisions without cooperating with the european parliament, without cooperating well with the european commission. commissioner, let us join together parliament and the commission and put the council in the mirror!
the court of justice of the european union has for some time been drawing attention to the fact that its court of justice, the general court and the civil service tribunal are not functioning as they should. therefore, we urgently need to find a solution that ensures the proper functioning of all three courts. in accordance with that objective, it is necessary to amend its statute. as regards the court of justice, it should be noted that the current structure of its grand chamber and the rules governing its functioning are the result of the amendments introduced by the treaty of nice in 2003, nine years ago. but since then, many changes have taken place, including the accession of 12 new member states. the number of things that are lifted is constantly increasing. while the court's productivity has increased significantly, the number of cases pending is still growing. the court of justice clearly lacks the necessary capacity to carry out its task effectively. we can agree that we need to increase the number of judges as quickly as possible, but we also need to agree on how to appoint them. in this context, i therefore call in particular on the council to address this issue as a matter of priority.
he thanked commissioner potočnik for representing eu policy as strongly as possible at the rio summit. is the summit a success or a failure? that's the question. no success at all, but i'm not personally disappointed because i didn't expect, and we couldn't expect, in this situation, great results. we will of course try to maintain our enthusiasm, but the question is how long we will be able to find the right partners and whether the policy we have pursued so far is sustainable in the long term. as mr. florenz said, the clerk, we don't have much time. we must be much more effective and decisive on the international stage, so that what little we have achieved can be put into practice. but then we must first of all agree among ourselves, both the member states and the political groups. we know how different our views are on energy policy. and that is closely linked to the fight against climate change. the implementation of energy efficiency legislation, but also the further development of clean and safe nuclear energy, can make a major contribution and a positive to the fight against climate change.
of course, we cannot regard the outcome of the rio negotiations as a special success. i personally think that we should not expect countries like china, brazil, russia, and perhaps the united states to join our initiative and pursue a green policy as vigorously as the european union wants. nevertheless, i think that we need to concentrate on getting these countries to join in monitoring and tracking the weather changes and in connection, of course, with industrial production and the way in which the environment is being polluted. perhaps as they gather more data and information, we will reach a common understanding of what changes and what action need to be taken in the first place to tackle climate change. so at this stage, i think the focus should be on getting them more involved in data collection, analysis and forecasting, and then maybe they'll come to the conclusion that some policy changes need to be made as well.
in writing. in rio, we saw ngos wanting to take the place of democratically legitimated governments. i wonder how democracy works in multilateral negotiations. associations that promote or do not exclude abortion as a tool of birth control have suffered a broad failure of their demands expressed throughout the rio+20 negotiations. it is worth noting that the term "sexual and reproductive health and rights" has been deleted from the final declaration. yes, there are political issues and human problems that are far more urgent than promoting abortion everywhere. sustainable development, human progress for all and world peace will not be achieved without justice for all. however, throughout the negotiations, ippf, unfpa, marie stopes international, dsw and other organisations funded by the union budget have explicitly linked sexual and reproductive health, abortion and sustainable development. it is shocking that these associations make the children of the poorest families feel that they are too much for humanity. they didn't make it. i therefore call on the european commission to comply with the outcome of rio+20 and to stop funding these associations, since there is no longer an international consensus on their action.
for the efd group. according to the practice hitherto followed in the fisheries sector, the country whose flag the vessel flies is responsible for the vessel's activities. in the case of a chartered vessel, the state in which the vessel is chartered shall be responsible for the operation of such vessel. however, in the context of the updating of the conventions on international trade in endangered species of wild fauna and flora, a discussion has been opened on a fundamental change to that rule, so that the country in which the vessel is owned is responsible for the activities of the chartered vessel. i admit that i have some doubts that the states which have contractually leased a vessel to another state would be able to control effectively the activities carried out by that vessel. as an example, i could mention my country, which is located in the heart of europe, has no access to the sea but has its own navy. of course, it has no effective means of controlling these ships, since they are chartered and operated by other countries. it therefore seems to me that accepting the proposed change in liability for the activity of a chartered vessel in the convention would allow a legal situation to be established in which no one would actually bear any real liability for the activity of chartered vessels.
in writing − the court of justice, the general court and the civil service tribunal are facing a steadily increasing workload. we urgently need to find a solution that ensures the proper functioning of all three courts. the court's own productivity has increased considerably, but the number of cases pending is constantly increasing. for the better imagination, it is interesting to note the court's assertion that the files of the examined items are stored on an area of 1,600 feet [505 m]! such a pace is simply not manageable, and the court of justice clearly lacks the necessary capacity to carry out its work properly and effectively. we therefore need a structural solution as a matter of urgency. the court of justice concluded that, in view of the urgency of the situation, the most advantageous solution would be to increase the number of judges by at least 12, bringing the total number of judges at the general court to 39. the problem is the way they are named. the request was therefore divided into two parts and the part dealing with the general court's issues therefore remains open. it is clear that the number of judges should be increased as quickly as possible. equally important, however, is to agree on how to designate them. i consider it important that the council should deal with this matter as a matter of priority.
in writing. - the court has submitted a draft regulation to allow the appointment of substitute judges to the civil service tribunal of the european union. the civil service tribunal shall consist of seven judges. it follows that his activity may be seriously jeopardised if one of them falls ill or is unable to perform his duties for a long period. in order to ensure that the civil service tribunal does not find itself in a situation where it cannot perform its judicial functions, it has been proposed to allow the admission of substitute judges to the specialised courts. the substance of the proposal is that the council, on a proposal from the president of the court of justice, should draw up a list of three persons proposed as judges-rapporteurs. they shall be appointed for a period of four years, with the possibility of reappointment. they shall enjoy the privileges of a judge only in dealing with the case assigned to them. this means that the judges-rapporteurs could only perform judicial functions and could not take part in the administration of the civil service tribunal or in the election of the president of the court of justice or the presidents of chambers. in my view, the proposal before the court appears to be a reasonable solution to a practical problem which might otherwise seriously impede the functioning of the european union civil service tribunal.
in writing − if you have over the next decade, major investments in european transport, energy, information and communication networks will be needed to support the europe 2020 flagship actions and to develop smart, modernised and fully connected infrastructures to boost the completion of the internal market. the european parliament, in its resolution of june 2011 on investing in the future: a new multiannual financial framework for a competitive, sustainable and inclusive europe, underlined that the union should take action, in particular, to improve the use of eu funds as a catalyst for attracting additional financing from the european investment bank, the european bank for reconstruction and development, other international financial institutions and the private sector. financial instruments can improve the efficiency of budgetary expenditure and achieve higher multiplier effects in view of the attraction of private sector funding and the volumes of investment achieved. the europe 2020 project bond initiative has a dual purpose. on the one hand, to help finance projects relating to european policy priorities and, on the other hand, to allow for greater involvement of the private sector in the long-term financing of infrastructure projects from capital markets. i am of the opinion that union support should reduce the risk inherent in project bonds to such an extent that capital market participants are willing to invest in bonds for larger infrastructure projects than would be possible without union support.
in writing − if you have draft amending budget no 3/2012 aims to include in the budget the surplus from the implementation of the budget for the financial year 2011. the budget implementation for the financial year 2011 shows a surplus of eur 1 496 968 014 (excluding efta and eea contributions) to be entered as revenue in the 2012 budget. the budgetary inclusion of the surplus reduces the member states' overall contribution to the financing of the eu budget accordingly. however, all available indicators indicate that payment appropriations will be short in many areas of eu activity this year, especially as the budgetary authority has again approved a lower level for 2012 than proposed by the commission. moreover, despite the urgent need for payment appropriations, the council decided unilaterally to reduce by more than two thirds the level of transfer of eur 485 million to research. as a consequence, more than eur 338 million remains in budget lines that cannot be used. however, i believe that, since the under-implementation on the expenditure side is not the result of drawdown difficulties or mismanagement by the commission, but of the rules in force for adjusting the distribution of payments in line with needs during the last weeks of the financial year, this amount should legitimately be returned to the eu budget in the form of a transfer of unspent appropriations.
written − the european parliament has repeatedly expressed its support for a two-state solution, with the state of israel and a neighbouring independent, democratic and functioning palestinian state living side by side in peace and security. he called for the resumption of direct peace talks between the two sides and declared that no changes to the pre-1967 borders would be recognized except those mutually agreed upon by the parties. the right of the palestinians to self-determination and to a state of their own cannot be questioned, nor can the right of israel to exist within secure borders. in my view, the eu and its member states should, within their policies, play a more active role in the pursuit of a just and lasting peace between israelis and palestinians.
in writing. - the european union and this parliament have long emphasised their commitment to helping to bring about a peaceful settlement to the middle east conflict. the european union budget allocates billions of euros annually to support programmes designed to improve the functioning of the palestinian authority so that it can better meet the basic needs of its citizens. given the complex history of the region, i also support diplomatic pressure on both sides of the conflict to expedite a settlement of the key dispute. but the resolution tabled by the european left, the greens and the liberals is adding fuel to the fire. the authors of this text did not even pretend to have a balanced approach. i cannot agree to such a one-sided policy. ideological blindness has never led to sustainable solutions. i regret that we have not been able to find a compromise text together that would be fair to both israel and the palestinian arabs. unfortunately, i could not support the text in this form.
author. − i would like to emphasise that the problem of african women of other sexual orientations, as ms yannakoudakis has said, goes far beyond the level of everyday discrimination. in 27 african countries, female homosexuality is illegal, and male homosexuality is prohibited by law and severely punished in 38 african countries. in recent months, we have heard of several cases of women being killed in different african countries because of their different sexual orientation. malawi passed a law banning such gatherings this year, and nigeria has a bill on the agenda that would punish even eyewitnesses to such gatherings. even in south africa, where the constitution prohibits discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation, so-called corrective rape is a persistent and ongoing practice, with several deaths reported recently. one of the victims was mutilated and burned alive. mr. president, i have to go. we are all born equal, and we believe that the european parliament cannot stand by and watch men and women being murdered.
regardless of who has an opinion, whether they agree or disagree with the alternative lifestyle, we must all agree that violence is not the solution. the eu should be a guarantor and a strong promoter of the principle of equality for all people. the rights, freedoms and dignity of every individual must be respected in every corner of the world. if, in the name of historical customs and traditions, such violence is quietly tolerated, even though it is often illegal, in some parts of africa, the eu must act and use all its levers to eliminate such practices altogether. the enforceability of the law and its strict application will, if not completely eliminate these practices, certainly reduce them to a bare minimum.
for the efd group it is often the case in the world that rulers who feel that their subjects do not want to see them in charge of the country look for various ways to maintain their power. and the more the people's desire to get rid of an unwanted leader grows, the harsher and more drastic methods that ruler must use to suppress public opinion against him. the media and representatives of the dissatisfied people then become the first victims of repression, as they are often the spokesmen of those who demand political change. the upcoming parliamentary elections in belarus are naturally causing increased nervousness in government circles as the political mood of the population is increasingly shifting away from support for the current regime. lukashenka's aides are well paid for their work and could be deprived of stable and power-hungry positions in society by a political change. they therefore do not hesitate to use the system of law and order to harass independent journalists and political opponents on behalf of their leader. the meeting of eastern partnership foreign ministers in brussels can thus be a good opportunity to alert the belarusian administration that such behaviour is not acceptable in a civilized society.
for the efd group it is amazing to think of the terrible consequences that can result from the combination of a bad law and a corrupt, heartless official who enforces it. the one-child policy that china has been implementing for decades, in the form that it is being implemented by the chinese authorities, is essentially an administrative violence against the country's population. if any government is going to control the population, it cannot do so by violent means. the decision on family size, the decision on the number of children, is up to the parents. the state can intervene in their decision-making only by appropriate punishment, by informing them about effective and acceptable methods of planned parenthood or by material motivation in the case of parents' decision-making for a solution supported by the state. the case of forced abortion in chongqing was only made public by the spread of the internet. and it is certainly not the only family tragedy that is the result of the disrespect of state power to the people of china. if it is true that the chinese government has already realized the immorality and unsustainability of such state behaviour and acknowledges the mistakes of its officials, it is our duty to appeal for the acceleration of the necessary changes in the approach of the chinese administrative power to the people of this country.
the world was shocked to learn of the inhumane treatment of the chinese authorities. forced abortion is a violation of human rights. they are a manifestation of violence against women and mothers. and that's why it's important to bring this issue up in bilateral negotiations with china. but the real reason why a young woman was abducted from her home in her seventh month of pregnancy, unbeknownst to her loved ones, and forced to abort her baby, is population control policy. this policy is an evil that is unfortunately supported by european taxpayers. we are also responsible for the tragedy caused by this policy. i therefore ask that the european union cease funding organisations which, under the pretext of protecting reproductive health, perform abortions in countries which ignore fundamental human rights.
for the efd group while i very much appreciate the commission's stated intention in the draft regulation to improve our business and commercial environment, including by updating the union's standardisation rules, i would like to point out that the current system works quite well. it will therefore be important to assess very sensitively all the implications of the proposed changes for economic life in europe. the commission regulation does not refer to the elementary principle of international standardisation, namely the principle of national representation. nor did it adequately recast the provisions governing the principles and mechanisms of stay. many provisions are also very broadly worded, which leaves a wide margin for interpretation, especially in the light of changes to the current system and its consistency. i therefore believe that the amendments and additions from the committee on industry, research and energy and the committee on international trade should be accepted by a large majority. with these changes, of course, the design will look a little better.
the cia's program includes repeated violations of human rights, including illegal and arbitrary detention, torture, and enforced disappearance. a special committee was set up to look into the matter, documenting the cia's use of our airspace and territory. since this finding, parliament has repeatedly called for a full investigation into the cooperation of national governments and agencies with the cia programme. the union is founded on respect for democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity and respect for international law, not only in the context of its internal policies but also in its external dimension. our responsibility is essential to maintain citizens' trust in the democratic institutions of the european union, to effectively protect and promote human rights and to ensure legitimate and effective security policies. the human rights violations caused by the cia programme continue. however, member states have not properly fulfilled their obligation to investigate serious cases related to the cia programme. it is an obligation to investigate cases of human rights violations.
the illegal interrogation and detention of foreign nationals in european union countries under the us intelligence programme is a disturbing element in european-american relations. the findings of independent journalists and investigators from poland and lithuania confirmed the existence of clandestine landings of us aircraft at military airports in the north-east of poland and the subsequent escorting of persons transported from these aircraft to secret intelligence facilities in lithuania. it is certainly clear to all of us that such activities of the cia in poland, lithuania or romania could not have been carried out without the knowledge and consent of the official structures in these states. i am therefore convinced that as long as the high-ranking officials involved in these illegal activities are protected in their positions by the political leaders of these countries, it will be difficult to move forward with the investigation of the illegal activities of the cia in europe. but for our citizens, one conclusion emerges: the security forces of several eu countries are no different in their methods of working from those of franco or pinochet.
i am very pleased that in this excellent report by mrs yannakoudakis we can follow all the principles which the european parliament has already supported. i was a rapporteur on the report on the conditions for donation and transplantation of human organs, and there too the principle of free and voluntary organ donation was the fundamental principle of altruism and of progress in this field. it is known that the collection, as it was said, of umbilical cord blood, but also the umbilical cord tissue itself, is a rich source of stem cells. this is what we should be focusing on, colleagues, and encouraging member states, as the report says, to collect this source of very good cells for the specific treatment that exists for adult stem cells. i also wanted to commend the traceability and the high quality of what we're supposed to be supporting in health care when we donate these kinds of tissues across borders.
i would like to thank mrs yannakoudakis for her excellent report. i would like to emphasise two aspects: we need to continue to monitor more effectively the treatment of human organs in the european union. the latest organ-donor consultant scandal in germany is proof of that. i would also like to mention the exhibitions of human organs that take place in several member states and are questionable. 2. to the commission must respect the decision of the european court of justice in luxembourg. for example, it expressly forbade the patenting of human cells derived from embryos. this means that funding research using embryonic stem cells is a waste of european taxpayers' money and should be banned. i am satisfied that the report by mrs yannakoudakis should be adopted as it stands.
tissue and cell donation mechanisms and systems are, like healthcare, the responsibility of the member states. therefore, mechanisms for tissue and cell donation vary from country to country. and they do not always correspond to article 3 (2) (c) of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which prohibits the exploitation of the human body and its parts for profit. the legal provisions in force in some member states which allow the payment of compensation to relatives for giving consent to the donation of tissues and cells of a deceased relative are manifestly contrary to that ethical principle. it is therefore important that only voluntary and unpaid donation based on the active expression of consent by a potential donor be considered legitimate in the union. only fair and transparent rules on voluntary free donation of tissues and cells under public control, the breach of which will be punishable by criminal law, will prevent the misuse of the human body and its parts for trafficking. it is therefore our duty to demand that all the countries of the european union do so.
half of the member states face a regular shortage of human tissues and cells, particularly bone marrow, or tissues such as cornea and skin. it is of particular ethical importance to ensure an adequate supply of tissues and cells needed for medical purposes. this is a sensitive issue. donations should be voluntary and anonymous. donor benefits should be carefully defined and limited to reimbursing the costs associated with the donation, such as healthcare costs. it should also be guided by protective legal and ethical principles that respect the inviolability of the person. however, many reports indicate that the principle of free donation is being repeatedly violated. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is legally binding, prohibits the exploitation of the human body and its parts for profit. free donation is therefore not only an ethical principle but also necessary to protect the health of the donor and the recipient, given that large sums of money involved in the donation process can encourage the donor to take risks and can prevent the disclosure of risks in his medical history.
let me briefly summarize the most controversial parts of the report. the report claims that the state will convince women to take up employment in the green economy. to sacrifice family for this, they forgot about intergenerational solidarity and the education of their children. at the same time, the men are to go to study social services. more pre-schools and nursing homes are needed, and a green economy cannot exist without a liberal abortion policy. i remember the propaganda posters of the communists. one was a woman on a tractor, and the other was a woman with a pickaxe. as if the maternal instinct was a mistake of nature, as if caring for one's own children and loved ones had no value to society. we want to see a woman, a man and a child, but never a family. what's the result? social engineering, pointless projects on our taxes and unsustainable pensions.
the ecological economy can also be described as a sustainable economy, by which i mean mainly social and ecological sustainability. social sustainability means a social order based on equality and social justice, regardless of gender, ethnicity, colour, religion, sexual orientation, disability or political opinion. given gender roles, women's environmental impact is not the same as men's. in addition, in many countries, women's access to resources and opportunities to cope and adapt is limited, due to structural norms and discrimination. gender inequality, coupled with a lack of sensitivity to women's different economic and social status and needs, often causes women to suffer disproportionately from environmental degradation. the effects of climate change are most acute for the poorest people, of whom women are estimated to make up 70%. women in the green economy are underrepresented in professional positions and are clearly underrepresented in environmental and budgetary negotiations and decision-making.
the services sector employed almost 70% of the people in the european union. however, the largest proportion of women workers is employed here: more than 83% compared to 58% of men workers. however, services suffer from the problem of horizontal segregation, which is a consequence of the persisting stereotypes in the sector. they are deeply rooted in society. it is assumed that there are male and female professions, and female professions are associated, for example, with work carried out by women mainly in the home. whether it's teaching, nursing, cleaning services and so on, all the lowest-paid jobs. in addition, women suffer from persistent pay disparities. in the eu, they earn 17% less than men, and that's not all. approximately 80% of low-paid workers are women. despite women representing around 60% of university graduates, only one in seven board members of the most important european companies is a woman.
i know there's a lot of problems in this sector. the report says we need more teachers and doctors because we have too many women teachers and doctors. there are too few female directors and too many male directors in companies, and that needs to change. short-time working is a precarious and questionable occupation. but we also praise them as a tool for balancing work and family. we want flexibility, we want a good salary, we want a family, and suddenly, our health is determined by whether we're being examined by a man or a woman. all in the name of a plan to have three-quarters of all women and men in paid work by 2020. women's work becomes an economic necessity. the children are being raised by a fellow teacher and the elderly are being cared for by a social institution. it'll be budget-efficient and save us the hypocritical quoting of statistics. i'm sorry we don't give the same consideration to women who freely choose to take care of their families.
the european union has committed itself to finalising the establishment of a common european asylum system in 2012. the aim is a common area of protection and solidarity, based on common asylum procedures and a uniform legal status for persons granted international protection. ensuring the proper functioning of the seas is of particular importance in the present day. migration flows are most often mixed and include migrants, asylum seekers, refugees and vulnerable persons, such as unaccompanied minors. the flows of asylum seekers and migrants have their own characteristics which cannot be ignored or combined under any circumstances. member states are currently unable to deal adequately with asylum applications lodged on their territory. we therefore need to address asylum issues in a holistic way across the european union, through better division of competences, increased mutual trust, practical cooperation, technical assistance and financial solidarity.
the increased number of mediterranean migrants during the arab spring highlighted the gaps in european asylum policy. the logical response of the southern european countries, which were the most affected by the migration wave, was to demand that the material and organisational burden of the influx of migrants be redistributed to other countries of the union. as is often the case in life, a seemingly simple solution may not always produce good results. asylum seekers come to europe with the hope of continuing their lives in more dignified and civilized conditions. they know that the language of the former colonial power, which they learned at home and at school, will make it easy for them to communicate and integrate into the population of a certain part of europe. but if we tell a french-speaking family from algeria or an english-speaking family from india or egypt that their new asylum home is to be estonia or romania, we are putting them in front of a very difficult language barrier that is going to make them very impatient and complicate their ability to integrate in their new environment. in order to deal with the sensitive and humanitarian situation of asylum seekers, we should leave it to them to decide which part of the union they wish to settle in and help them integrate into society where they can do so most easily.
the common asylum system is indeed to be completed in 2012 across europe and is to be a kind of already reworked system that covers in a balanced way all the participating countries of the european union on asylum policy. i sympathize, of course, very much with my colleagues or with countries that are under pressure, especially from african emigrants, and we know that they are malta, italy, greece. but also countries like my country are exposed to new migrants who no longer see the country as a transit country, but settle permanently or want to settle in slovakia, where i live. i am very proud of the progress slovakia has made. i visited one of these asylum houses in humenn, where i saw that the conditions of the asylum seekers were of a very high standard and that they were taken care of very well, both socially and medically, and of course also in terms of integration. i believe that this directive or this material will be successful.
the stress test of pharmacovigilance legislation has shown that there are fundamental flaws in the european union system that we need to address, because we cannot afford any flaws in the safety of pharmaceutical policy. mediator was registered through national procedures in many european countries and, although the first reports of side effects of its main active substance, which raised concerns about possible heart valve disorders, appeared as early as 1999, mediator was widely prescribed in europe until 2009, when it was withdrawn from the market and prescribed to five million people. it's also estimated that the number of deaths associated with this drug is up to two thousand lives, up to two thousand people. despite the concerns raised by the regulatory authorities at various meetings at european level, and despite all duly substantiated concerns, no decision was taken to proceed with the scientific assessment of this medicine at european union level. no further action was taken by the regulatory authorities. these facts make it very clear that pharmaceutical policy and the safety of medicines at the level of the european union must be strengthened. i therefore support the intention to revise the 2010 legislation, while stressing that this change needs to be achieved as soon as possible in the interest of public health. i would also like to thank the rapporteur very much for her excellent prepared opinion.
i wanted to say something important. if we in this parliament have agreed that consumer information on food must be improved, clear and readable, how much more must we have information for the patient on the package leaflet that is clear, readable and true. but i'll get back to the point. i want to congratulate my colleague linde mcavan, who has taken a big step forward by putting all the forces of this parliament into reviewing this material, which will improve the prospects of patients not being treated with the wrong medicines. how is it that for many years mediator has been prescribed, and it has even had such side effects that it is estimated that perhaps as many as two thousand people have died from taking it? and it was prescribed in a very different way, not for type 2 diabetes, but it was prescribed for anorexia. then this shouldn't happen again. i just want to say that i welcome this report.
in writing. the european union wanted to achieve 20% savings in energy consumption by 2020. it has also been identified as one of the five priority objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. but based on the results so far, we can only say that we've accomplished half of that. it has become clear that we need further strategic decisions to increase energy efficiency. we're importing more and more energy at higher and higher prices, and there are also constraints on access to resources. energy efficiency is one of the simplest ways to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, make our energy consumption sustainable and increase security of supply. we can save as much energy as possible by reducing the energy demand of buildings. energy efficiency considerations should be given greater weight in the design of buildings, as their energy demand currently accounts for 40% of the total energy demand in the union. several member states, including slovakia, should be encouraged to include in their short and long-term plans a support scheme for the modernisation of obsolete buildings as well as for newly built houses, with particular attention to passive houses.
our role in energy efficiency is at risk in these times of economic crisis. but if we fail in energy efficiency, we fail in climate change, energy security, green growth or social protection. and i would like to point out one important fact. it is very likely that unit prices will continue to rise. however, the increase in unit energy prices in the midst of the economic crisis will also have a very negative impact on low-income households. i would therefore like to ask the commissioner how the commission is preparing a solution for low-income households in relation to the increase in energy prices.
just a little while longer. commissioner, you have mentioned several times that, despite the efforts of the european commission, it is the member states which, through their instruments, whether fiscal or social, can also intervene in the pricing of energy policy. so i have a question, which is perhaps a political question at this point, for the future. as the commissioner responsible for this area, do you think it would be appropriate to move more quickly towards some form of unification, to have a common basis for determining, for example, tax policy in the field of energy policy?
the launch of the new baltic sea nord stream pipeline has slightly lightened the capacity of the ost stream pipeline, which transports gas from russia to western europe via central europe. at present, the volume of gas transported by its pipelines is about 60% of its maximum capacity. the 40% of the capacity of this pipeline that has been freed up could thus help to fill the industrial areas of austria and northern italy with cheaper russian gas if a short gas pipeline link from slovakia to austria could be built. i therefore ask commissioner oettinger what active measures the commission is prepared to take to support such a project to improve the efficiency of the european union's energy network.
i asked a little differently, maybe it was also due to the translation: is the commission also prepared to support the connection between slovakia and austria from eustream to the distribution networks in austria and northern italy in order to shorten the transport distance of this gas, since eustream's capacity currently allows such a connection to be loaded?
freedom means the ability to make a bad choice. unfortunately, we often limit it unnecessarily by adopting legislative proposals that impede business, restrict the economy and the market. but sometimes there's a reason for the law and regulation. for example, the safety of medicines or food must be guaranteed by the state, or irreparable harm to health and lives will result. i'm glad we can quickly fix legislation that wasn't strict enough. but it also fills me with indignation that there are companies and people who, in the name of profit, sacrifice the lives of patients who trust them. in the case of servier, there could be 500 victims or as many as 2,000. unfortunately, we can't save these people anymore, but i believe thousands more can.
written − on 4 june 2012, the commission adopted a new draft decision to mobilise the egf in favour of denmark in order to support the re-entry into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. this is the fourth application to be examined under the 2012 budget and concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 6 455 104 from the egf for denmark. the redundancies concerned 981 workers, 550 of whom were to be covered by the aid. the commission has concluded that the application complies with the conditions for the egf as provided for in article 2 (a) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 and that the application was submitted within the 10-week period provided for in article 5 of that regulation. the interinstitutional agreement allows the mobilisation of the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million.
written − on 18 june 2012, the commission adopted a new draft decision to mobilise the egf in favour of spain in order to support the re-entry into the labour market of workers made redundant as a result of the global financial and economic crisis. this is the fifth request to be examined under the 2012 budget. it concerns the mobilisation of a total amount of eur 1 300 000 from the egf for spain. the redundancies concern 836 workers, 320 of whom are to be assisted. the commission has concluded that the application complies with the conditions for the egf as provided for in article 2 (b) of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006 and that the application was submitted within the 10-week period provided for in article 5 of that regulation. due to the low population density of most of the territory concerned by this request and the risk of depopulation, the redundancies have a very negative impact on this region.
in writing − energy efficiency is the most cost-effective way to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and other emissions associated with fossil fuels. it leads to less dependence on energy imports, for which the eu currently pays more than eur 400 billion a year. by investing in energy efficiency, the eu will reduce its dependence on russia and opec and invest in european industry. this will benefit in particular small and medium-sized enterprises, including installation and construction companies. this directive is an opportunity for europe to deliver on the energy and climate commitments made by heads of state in march 2007 and 2011: a 20% increase in eu energy efficiency will result in savings of 368 million tonnes of oil equivalent (mtoe) compared to the 2020 trend. a common eu approach is needed to promote energy savings and efficiency and innovation, to achieve economies of scale and to reduce bureaucratic burdens in all member states. eu energy efficiency policy will build on existing and well-functioning regional and national policies, while maintaining the necessary degree of flexibility to take account of local and national specificities.
in writing. − to achieve 20% energy savings, the eu needs to invest €800 billion to €1200 billion over the next decade. they have a return of 4 to 8 years, create a lot of jobs and promote innovation. the eu funds may be involved, but also private funds, including on the basis of revolving funds. an additional €400 billion could be generated directly from energy savings by 2020. renovations of buildings, which account for 40% of eu energy consumption, can be a significant source of savings. the estimated annual renovation rate of buildings of 2% should be increased to 3% if the target of an annual commitment of 1,5% of final energy consumption savings in the eu is to be achieved. i fully support all measures to save energy in the eu.
written − the european union and all its member states face the challenges of limited energy resources in the eu and thus dependence on energy imports from non-european countries. energy efficiency is not only a valuable means of mitigating the negative effects of climate change by reducing greenhouse gas emissions in a cost-effective way, but also a pathway to increasing energy security and the transition to a competitive energy-efficient economy. i therefore believe that eu programmes such as horizon 2020 for science and research should pay attention to innovative technological solutions in energy efficiency-related sectors. in this way, we would also be creating new skilled jobs. i agree with the approach that member states should be able to take into account national circumstances when setting indicative national energy efficiency targets and to adapt specific energy efficiency incentives to them.
in writing. − on 20 april 2012, the public prosecutor of the republic of poland submitted a request for waiver of the immunity of jarosław leszek wałęsa in relation to criminal proceedings in respect of an alleged offence under the polish act of 20 may 1971 on the definition of offences and the road transport act of 20 june 1997. the case concerned a road accident in poland on 2 september 2011 in which jarosław leszek wałęsa was involved and was seriously injured. jarosław leszek wałęsa refused to be heard before the committee on legal affairs, but stated that he preferred a swift closure of the case and that he considered that he should be deprived of immunity. the substance of the facts set out in the application shows that the facts established have no direct and manifest connection with the performance of the duties of jarosław leszek wałęsa as a member of the european parliament. jarosław leszek wałęsa was therefore not acting as a member of the european parliament in the present case.
in writing − the request of the public prosecutor relates to proceedings in respect of an alleged criminal offence under section 331 of the german criminal code, which provides that 'a public official or a person entrusted with the performance of a special public function who, for the purpose of performing a service for himself or a third person, seeks, promises or takes an advantage shall be punished by imprisonment for up to three years or by a fine'. birgit collin-langen was heard by the committee on legal affairs, which requested that the matter be closed quickly and declared that she should be relieved of her immunity. the facts, which cover the period from 2006 to 2008, and the facts ascertained have no direct and manifest connection with birgit collin-langen's performance of her duties as a member of the european parliament. birgit collin-langen was therefore not acting in the performance of her duties as a member of the european parliament in the present case and the facts set out in the statement of reasons do not constitute a case of fumus persecutionis.
written − the european union is founded on respect for democracy, the rule of law, human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity and respect for international law, not only in its internal policies but also in its external dimension. the eu's commitment to respect human rights, reinforced by the entry into force of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union and the accession process to the european convention on human rights, must be reflected in all policy areas to ensure an effective and credible eu human rights policy. the instruments governing the eu's common foreign and security policy provide for an absolute prohibition of torture and also impose an explicit obligation to investigate allegations of torture and to provide redress and compensation. the eu guidelines on torture provide a framework for eu efforts to prevent and eliminate torture and ill-treatment worldwide. secret detention, which is a form of enforced disappearance, may, if widely or systematically applied, result in crimes against humanity.
written − the european union has committed itself to completing the establishment of a common european asylum system (seas) in 2012, creating a common area of protection and solidarity based on common asylum procedures and a uniform legal status for persons granted international protection. ensuring the good functioning of the seas is particularly important at a time when migration flows are most often mixed and involve migrants, asylum seekers, refugees and vulnerable persons, such as unaccompanied minors. asylum seekers and migrants have their own characteristics which cannot be ignored or combined under any circumstances. the establishment of the solidarity framework does not relieve member states of their international and european obligations in the field of asylum, but rather provides the seas with concrete tools and procedures aimed at supporting and assisting those member states that are subject to disproportionate pressure and bear disproportionate costs in the field of asylum, in particular due to their geographical and demographic situation.
in writing − if you have the regulation of the european parliament and of the council aims to increase the positive impact of european standards on better market functioning, economic growth, innovation and the competitiveness of enterprises. normalisation contributes to many aspects of economic activity, in particular growth, productivity and the opening up of markets. the proposal seeks, inter alia, to shorten the standardisation process where standards are proposed at the request of the commission, to ensure that smes and societal stakeholders are properly represented in the standardisation process, to extend the application of ict standards, thereby improving interoperability and increasing the number of standards relating to innovative and fast-developing manufacturing technologies such as nanotechnology, biotechnology and nuclear technology, and to further consolidate the current legislative framework. new legislation is needed to consolidate and update the previous directives on standardisation policy. the proposal will consolidate the current eu standardisation policy while introducing new elements to take account of new challenges.
written − food safety is one of the main concerns of european citizens. european legislation must therefore ensure their optimal protection through updated and strengthened provisions as often as necessary. electronic identification of bovine animals allows more reliable data to be obtained, which strengthens the traceability system and thus food safety. this is to ensure the clarity and applicability of the legislation on the identification and traceability of bovine animals and thus to achieve an optimal level of food safety. the abundance of information leads to greater consumer confidence.
in writing. − food safety is a major concern for european citizens. electronic identification of bovine animals allows for more reliable data, which strengthens the traceability system and thus food safety. it also allows for the registration of bovine animals to be accelerated, certain tasks to be automated and herd management to be more efficient. that's why i'm supporting the development of this new technology. adequate adaptation of the applicable legislation is necessary in order to recognise electronic identification as an official means of identification. it is also necessary to ensure the harmonisation of technical standards in order to avoid the possible anarchic development of this method of identification and the lack of interoperability between national systems.
in writing − if you have at the end of 2010, the european parliament, together with the council, agreed to a revision of the rules governing pharmacovigilance at european union level. these new laws came into force in july this year. the aim of the measures is to improve the safety of medicines at a pan-european level, by strengthening the european medicines agency (ema) in data collection and improving cooperation between member states. one of the impulses was the mediator case last year. mediator has been developed by the french company servier for the treatment of type 2 diabetes. the main ingredient is benfluorex, which can cause heart valve disorders. the adverse effects of this substance have been discussed since the late 1990s. the safety of this medicine is still under investigation. nevertheless, by 2009, almost five million eu citizens, mainly in france, had been prescribed it. the number of deaths associated with this drug is estimated to be up to two thousand. i therefore consider it necessary to reach an agreement with the council as soon as possible to ensure that such doubts do not arise.
in writing − if you have in france, a case of mediator emerged in 2011 and its safety is under investigation. the case highlighted the need for an urgent review of the pharmacovigilance system in the eu. the european commission responded by conducting a so-called legislative stress test in december 2010 to obtain further knowledge that would still be needed in view of the mediator case. the results of this stress test showed that although the new legislation has indeed strengthened the field of pharmacovigilance at eu level, there are certain potential shortcomings in the eu system that need to be addressed. the stress tests thus indicate that, while the new system has improved many things, further changes are still needed to address the gaps in the legislation. in the interest of public health, a consensus is needed as soon as possible. i agree with the commission's approach in these proposals, which aim to further strengthen the pharmacovigilance system at eu level.
in writing − if you have the main purpose of this proposal is to introduce maximum sulphur levels in marine fuels agreed under the imo. it is estimated that air pollutants from ships are currently causing around 50 000 premature deaths a year in europe. in many member states, air quality standards are more easily achieved by reducing emissions from ships. it is estimated that the monetary value of the health benefits achieved will exceed the cost of reducing emissions from shipping by two to twenty-five times. the commission estimates the monetary value of the health benefits at eur 8-16 billion and the costs at eur 0,6-3,7 billion. the directive will clarify and standardise the implementation of the imo values and the monitoring of their compliance within the eu, while harmonising the conditions of competition, facilitating the transition phase and encouraging innovation. moreover, lower maximum levels for sulphur would lead to a significant improvement in the health of european citizens. the cost-benefit analysis carried out by the commission shows that a maximum value of 0,1% in seca areas would prevent more than 17 000 premature deaths per year in 2020. a significant reduction in the incidence of respiratory diseases would also be achieved.
in writing. − the main objective of the commission proposal is to establish maximum sulphur levels in marine fuels agreed within the international maritime organisation (imo). substances from ships are currently responsible for around 50 000 premature deaths a year in europe, and this is therefore an important health reform in this legislative period. sulphur and nitrogen oxides cause the formation of secondary particles in the air that are harmful to health. reducing emissions from ships would make it easier to meet air quality standards in the member states. the maximum sulphur content in seca areas is currently set at 1%. the commission proposes that the new maximum sulphur value for seca zones (0,1%) should also apply to all passenger ships, with this limitation to take effect in 2020. if more stringent maximum sulphur levels were adopted, the health benefits would be two to 25 times greater than the cost of reducing emissions from shipping. the directive will also clarify and standardise the implementation of the imo values and the monitoring of their compliance within the eu, harmonise the conditions of competition, facilitate the transition phase and encourage innovation.
in writing − if you have the commission proposal aims to amend article 103 of the single cmo regulation (1234/2007) which allows member states to grant untied aid to wine growers under the single payment scheme as part of their national programmes for wine growers. under the provision already existing in the current single cmo regulation, member states may adjust their support programmes once a year as regards the part of the appropriations allocated to the single payment scheme (the support programmes have a duration of five years). this means that member states could start transferring funds annually, while member states that have used this option for only part of their funds, such as spain and greece, could decide to increase this part once a year. member states could also decide to end transfers from the budget for the wine sector to the single payment scheme at the end of the five-year programming period.
in writing. - i would like to comment on the commission proposal to amend article 103o of the single cmo regulation (1234/2007) to allow member states to grant, within their national programmes for wine growers, non-binding aid under the single payment scheme. in the context of the fundamental changes in the eu's common agricultural policy, i consider it necessary to proceed with caution and at the same time flexibility in adopting changes to the legal regime in the wine sector, as the reform of the common agricultural policy can bring many substantial modifications and only make the conditions for winegrowers more opaque. in order to ensure certainty and predictability for wine growers, i consider it appropriate to allocate funds to the single payment scheme in such a way that the amounts of the individual amounts are known in advance. at the same time, i also agree to allow for an increase in the national ceilings for direct payments to wine growers. however, in my view, the clear priority remains to ensure the continuity of the measures taken and to create a transitional period to allow for a smooth adaptation to the new regime.
written − the commission's proposal for the granting of aid to winegrowers under the single payment scheme is part of the cap reform. the commission proposal aims to amend regulation (ec) no 1234/2007 on the common organisation of the market in wine, which allows member states to grant untied aid to wine-growers under the single payment scheme under their national programmes for wine-growers. under the existing provision, member states may adjust their support programmes once a year (for 5 years) in respect of the part of the appropriations allocated to the single payment scheme. the commission proposal requires member states to take a final decision on the transfer of funds from the budget allocated to the wine sector to the single payment scheme by the end of this year. payment claims under the single payment scheme shall be granted for an unlimited period and shall be known in advance in order to ensure predictability for farmers. the ep and the council agreed to change the five-year measure to a one-year measure valid for 2014 only and to provide for the possibility to make a one-off transfer of funds from 2015. the agreement is an acceptable solution in order to maintain the flexibility of decisions within the wine sector without being disrupted by the outcome of the 2013 cap reform.
in writing − the proposal aims to establish a set of common rules for the functioning of imi. the smooth flow of cross-border information exchange between the various authorities of the member states is very important to our efforts to complete the single market. in both areas where imi is already used, i.e. for the purposes of the professional qualifications directive and the services directive, it has proven to be a reliable and effective tool and this proposal will allow the full potential of imi to be further exploited, with clear benefits for citizens and the internal market. imi is a flexible tool that can be adapted to the specific requirements arising in different legislative areas and its use in a new, consolidated form will not only allow for better data protection but also allow competent authorities to communicate more quickly or across multiple policy areas. last but not least, it will allow for better cooperation between local authorities and their greater involvement in the single market.
in writing. − if you have since 2008, the internal market information system (imi) has been provided to the member states as a free service. it aims to improve the exchange of information within the internal market. the system has proven to be a fast and secure way of exchanging information and administrative cooperation across borders and currently has over 6 000 bodies registered from all eu member states and european economic community countries. the current proposal for a regulation aims to improve the conditions for the functioning of the internal market through an efficient and user-friendly tool enabling the practical implementation of administrative cooperation and information exchange. the regulation is based on two parts. one laying down rules for the use of imi for administrative cooperation, the other laying down basic rules for data protection. it is for the sake of better functioning that it is important to provide a coherent legal framework for imi.
in writing − the council directive on a common system of taxation applicable to interest and royalty payments made between associated companies of different member states has been amended several times in recent years. however, in the interests of clarity and accountability, it is still necessary to adjust the technical details. current estimates suggest that tax evasion and avoidance is costing european union governments a significant amount of money in the form of uncollected taxes. as a result of the loss of revenue, the deficit and debt of individual member states are growing. cooperation between the tax systems of the member states is increasingly desirable. the directive needs to be amended to further exclude the possibility of unintentional non-taxation, double taxation or tax avoidance in member states that distorts the proper functioning of the internal market.
in writing − the eu crisis can only be overcome by honest and fair action. europe must remain committed to a social market economy model that guarantees sustainable growth in order to secure jobs and a better quality of life for current and future generations. cohesion and solidarity are among the eu's main objectives, as confirmed by article 174 tfeu. the european commission needs an ambitious 2013 work programme to promote sustainable growth, job creation and quality of life in europe and to restore citizens' confidence in european integration. the commission should demonstrate its strong leadership by providing sound political solutions to the crisis, by safeguarding and promoting the right european institutional balance and by ensuring that the common european interest prevails over the incompatible interests of individual member states.
in writing − if you have donated tissues and cells such as skin, bone, tendons, corneas and haematopoietic stem cells are increasingly used in treatment and as starting material in medicines for innovative treatments. directive 2004/23/ec states that member states shall endeavour to ensure that voluntary and unpaid donation and the procurement of tissues and cells are carried out on a non-profit-making basis. there is therefore a clear legal obligation to do so. donations should be made on a voluntary and non-profit-making basis in a transparent environment. as healthcare is largely a competence of the member states, these recommendations are intended to complement existing practices applied in the member states and concern in particular areas such as cross-border donation. the report encourages the increase of tissue and cell stocks through the exchange of best practices in routine operations, ethical standards and donor awareness. in order to facilitate effective cross-border cooperation in this area, extensive checks should be carried out to ensure maximum traceability and transparency of the donation system.
written − the principle of altruism and the resulting principle of voluntary and unpaid donation prevent in principle any commercialisation of organs or other parts of the human body and thus the risk of illegal trade in them. the principle of non-commercialization of the human body and its parts as such is also enshrined in the charter of fundamental human rights, as it guarantees the highest possible protection of living donors. i therefore welcome the report which analyses the current state of play in the field of tissue and cell donation and i hope that, together with the directive on the quality and safety of organs intended for transplantation, it will contribute to improving the whole mechanism of donation and to better cooperation at european level.
in writing − the participation of women and men in political and economic decision-making is very uneven. this gender imbalance undermines the legitimacy of political decision-making, because democracy is based on the idea that elected representatives should represent a cross-section of the population. equal participation in politics and the green economy is essential to ensure that women's interests are taken into account to the same extent as men's interests are currently taken into account. to address this imbalance, countries need to take all appropriate measures, such as introducing quotas, to achieve a more balanced gender representation in politics and the green economy. the green economy also requires sustainable management of human resources, i.e. social sustainability. this means, for example, a greater balance between the rich and the poor, between women and men. greater equality must be a natural part of an ecological and sustainable economy.
in writing − the disparity between women and men in the highest decision-making positions in the bodies that create and manage the economy is enormous. this fact calls into question the legitimacy of today's democratically-based decision-making bodies. i would argue that in this time of economic uncertainty, of deepening climate change and of the collapse of ecosystems, women need to be given easier access to the world markets. one thing is certain. women's approach to today's pressing issues is diametrically different from men's approach to resolving stalemates. women are more inclined to make more economical and efficient decisions. i often see how women's status in the home, in the workplace, and in the community is underestimated. women always put the needs of their children and families first, providing health care, education... on the other hand, they advocate greater political stability and are strongly opposed to armed conflict. so let's use the potential of women in the green economy too! a gender-balanced approach will bring alternative and innovative perspectives to the future. however, the growing demand for professional workers also requires appropriate training. so let's give women and students equal opportunities in access to education and training. i believe that this is the only way to achieve progress in research, sustainable development and environmentally sound solutions to today's crises.
in writing − if you have in 2010, the total employment in the eu was 69.4% in the services sector, compared with 25.4% in industry and 5.2% in agriculture. the service sector employs the largest proportion of women workers: 83.1% compared with 58.1% of men workers. horizontal segregation is the result of stereotypes in the service sector, which are deeply rooted in society, where it is assumed that there are male and female professions, with female professions being associated with work that women perform in the domestic environment (clothing and textiles, education, nursing, cleaning services, etc.). despite representing around 60% of university graduates, women's representation in decision-making positions in the economic field, especially in the highest bodies, is disproportionately low. the proportion of women working as it professionals is also much lower, with a slower increase than that of men.
in writing − if you have in line with the europe 2020 headline target of achieving a 75% employment rate by 2020, measures to improve women's access to the labour market should be developed, as statistics show that they are significantly under-represented in the long term. i consider the low representation of women in the labour market and especially in skilled positions to be a highly negative phenomenon, also considering that women represent approximately 60% of university graduates. yet, they are rarely found in managerial or decision-making roles in the service sector. as women in the service sector are in the lowest-level jobs in terms of qualifications and pay and are even paid less than men, i believe that women's education and knowledge can also be developed by promoting women's entrepreneurship and enterprise. i therefore welcome the proposal for microfinance as a tool to support women entrepreneurs and those in a vulnerable position on the labour market in the service sector. in conclusion, i would like to acknowledge the meritorious work of hundreds of thousands of women in the field of social services and also in the field of social entrepreneurship, and therefore particularly welcome the commission's communication entitled 'the social entrepreneurship initiative', which is addressed to them.
in writing − the segregation of work sectors into female and male is still a reality. this has been confirmed by several studies, which also point to the need to pay greater attention to women's working conditions. they must be provided for under all circumstances. the gap between the representation of women in the public sector and the service sector is growing. many women from disadvantaged groups have limited opportunities in the labour market. it should be noted that both working conditions and pay levels are significantly lower than in other sectors. another fact is that these problems of job insecurity affect women more than men. the concentration of low-wage, part-time work and other indicators is closely linked to sexism in the workplace. it is therefore essential to support any initiative that aims to combat inequalities in the workplace, promotes the reduction of gender gaps, strengthens the rights of migrant workers and calls for the wider involvement of women in decision-making positions.
in writing − if you have the importance of investing in education and training in order to meet the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy and to strengthen european competitiveness needs to be fully recognised. despite the process of budgetary consolidation, member states must improve access to lifelong learning for all. investing in human capital and preventing early school leaving should not be seen as a cost but as an essential condition for achieving the europe 2020 objectives and should therefore not be assessed purely in terms of competitiveness. education is a fundamental human right that should be guaranteed for all, with particular regard to the younger generation and members of vulnerable groups, including people who are not in employment and are not pursuing education or training. investing in quality education and training plays a key role in overcoming the economic crisis by increasing europe's competitiveness, helping the workforce to adapt to a changing labour market, strengthening social cohesion and helping to ensure that people are qualified for a wider range of jobs that can provide them with quality and lasting employment.
in writing. −the early childhood education stage is considered to be the most important for the future level of education attained by an individual. in 1996, the european commission recommended that eu countries invest at least 1% of gdp in early childhood education and care. according to the oecd survey of 2004, only 5 out of 20 countries surveyed achieved this level of investment. in the context of an unstable economic situation and a period of drastic austerity, early childhood education is often forgotten. however, in reality, not investing in this area will incur costs that will be reflected in the future in terms of lower potential economic benefits, higher healthcare costs, protection against crime and anti-social behaviour.
in writing. − the union's multiannual financial framework requires that the largest percentage increase in the eu's long-term budget be allocated to education and related sectors. however, the current economic situation is unfortunately leading member states to cut back on education and training budgets. this puts the objectives of creating a knowledge-based economy at risk. education and training can only be provided with adequate public funding to ensure that it is accessible to all without social, economic, racial or political discrimination. financial constraints make it difficult for socially disadvantaged students to enter secondary school and university. i agree that the effectiveness of systems that offer financial support to these students to continue their studies should be examined. early school leaving can have serious consequences if member states do not take action to support young people who leave school early and do not participate in education and training. this problem must also be addressed immediately, since they are the least likely to be placed on the labour market without qualifications. the crisis is also having a negative impact on the employment of young people, with the result that in many cases recent graduates are not able to find jobs that correspond to their qualifications. therefore, special attention should be paid to vocational education and training in the higher education system. better, more targeted information and career guidance are needed in line with labour market needs.
in writing − i clearly see investments in quality education and training as investments in the competitiveness of the european economy. rapidly changing labour market conditions require the flexibility of a workforce that must be able to adapt to an increasingly wide range of jobs in order to secure quality and sustainable employment. however, member states must also seek solutions to balance supply and demand in the labour market in the various sectors of the national economy. in this respect, i support the modernisation of training programmes in sectors which are not popular with young people in particular, but where the needs of society require a regular supply of skilled workers. this includes, for example, technical areas, research and innovation and the energy sector, which should be promoted and made more attractive in people's minds. in my view, the traditional crafts belonging to the cultural heritage should also be included in the education and training programme in order to avoid their gradual disappearance and total loss.
in writing − if you have the further development of the information society must focus on the audiovisual production necessary for the development of this market. the cultural and creative industries represent a significant number of jobs in the union and their economic contribution in terms of value added amounts to 2,5% of gdp. the economic model of the audiovisual works market is based on different sales territories, each of which has specific stages of placement for different media. this system must not be called into question, since it ensures a good balance of trade between all the partners in the sector. the eu's audiovisual production, its financing and distribution are a complex network of large, medium and small enterprises, each specialised and with its own specificity. the single market is working and offers new perspectives and opportunities for consumers as well as for creators and service providers. eu policy must aim to create an environment that encourages the development of legal offerings accessible to all, innovation and creativity. we need to focus our efforts on ensuring legal certainty in the european digital online space and to ensure that situations of unequal treatment between online and offline services are avoided.
in writing. − the distribution of artworks in the film and audiovisual sector is not easy. this sector is a meeting place for art and industry. since the european union must be primarily oriented towards culture and education, it is essential to ensure that appropriate means and opportunities are available for the dissemination of european films. it is also necessary to ensure the effective preservation of those works, in particular by means of digitisation. the cultural industry is not only an opportunity for artists, it also represents a significant number of jobs and its economic contribution is 2,5% of gdp, the same amount as the automotive industry. unfortunately, audiovisual production and distribution in the eu is a complex network of large, medium and small companies, each specialised and unique in its own way. it is essential that the eu has a clear, transparent, simple and, above all, uniform legal framework for audiovisual works, as this is the only way to achieve a digital single market. such unification will help to create the new business models and distribution channels needed to improve and simplify accessibility for consumers across the union.
madam president, many thanks to ms ashton for her statement and congratulations to elmar brok on an excellent report. this is a good time for our debate. the crisis in europe has constrained the eu’s ability to react more effectively to many recent foreign developments. but if there is one thing we cannot afford to lose in this process, it is our leadership on certain foreign policy issues. yes, we have achieved some successes in the western balkans: in croatia, montenegro and serbia. many more issues, however, have remained unresolved for quite a long time. we need to react promptly and to take leadership in the serbia-kosovo dialogue, in the situation in bosnia and herzegovina, and in the many challenges in albania and macedonia. so, at this time especially, the eu has to play a strategic role in this region. it is our responsibility and our duty to have an effective and clear policy towards it.
the council report maps out the union's foreign policy priorities, but in my view it does not pay sufficient attention to the priorities and strategic guidelines for the common foreign and security policy. moreover, it does not explain the political mechanisms for ensuring coherence and consistency between the different components of foreign policy, including those for which the commission is responsible. the union urgently needs more cooperation on the basis of your triple mandate, mrs ashton. you spoke in your speech, mrs ashton, of many things that have gone well, of many interventions that have helped. i want to ask you to intervene for the son of a european woman, a citizen of the slovak republic. her son ended up in egypt four years ago. it's the country you mentioned, where we helped the egyptian women. and i would also like to ask my colleagues in this chamber, members of parliament, and you, from the point of view of your mandate and with the strength of your mandate, to help katarina azab get little adamek back to slovakia.
colleagues, we are in a typical trap: on the one hand we want to stop the war in syria by force. we're doing this for humanitarian reasons. the only way to do that is to intervene. but on the other hand, we want to respect international law, and that means acting with a un mandate. but we don't have one, russia and china are blocking it. what should we do: bypass the un and intervene on the principle of a 'coalition of the willing'? we need to decide whether to leave syria to its own internal development or to intervention. and with implications for the global legal system and the standing of the united nations. if we choose not to intervene, we must bear moral responsibility. if for intervention, we must bear the consequences of war action.
i think the legal system in russia has deteriorated tremendously, and the cases we're talking about here, and it's not just the case of these three women from the music group, is a reflection of how real the legal system is and exists. we all know it's very difficult to change. but we have to make it very clear that what is happening in russia in the legal field is a disgrace. and it is also a personal disgrace to vladimir putin. the three women who were sentenced to two years had previously spent nearly nine months in prison. we realize this fact! for an act that would hardly qualify as a crime. if i take this into account and i remember the old days of communism in czechoslovakia, i don't remember in the 1980s in communist czechoslovakia, that the legal system was being politically abused like this. we need to develop relations with russia, but we need to make it clear to putin that this disgrace on him as a person and a statesman will remain.
the stories of our citizens often convince us that, due to different cultural traditions and the different historical development of judicial and security structures in the member states of the union, we find great differences in the exercise of civil rights between member states. the same applies to the protection and safeguarding of the rights of victims of crime. the european commission's efforts to establish minimum rules on the rights of victims of crime are therefore justified. in addition to recognising the rights of victims to information, interpretation and translation, access to legal protection or victim support services, i believe it is very important to also apply the right of victims to avoid contact with the offender. however, the mere recognition of those rights in union legislation does not automatically change the situation of victims in their daily lives. the working methods of these principles will have to be adopted by all the elements involved in criminal proceedings, the police, the prosecutors, as well as the judicial branches. it is therefore very important to realise that our work does not end with the adoption of this act.
the fact that sugar has become a scarce commodity in some member states and its prices may have risen disproportionately, also as a result of international speculation, entitles us to conclude that the 2006 sugar quota reform was a failure of european agricultural policy. the decline in sugar production has caused all sugar factories in my country to close and thousands of workers to lose their jobs. it is therefore important that we are able to correct as soon as possible the mistakes of the failed decisions of the past and change the current mechanisms causing the decline of food production in europe. the commission must be more responsive to changing economic conditions and its policies must stimulate employment and support economic growth. it is therefore also necessary to review the current quota mechanism without prejudice, in such a way as not to create imbalances and tensions in the internal market.
the eu is currently in a bad situation. the ongoing economic and financial crisis and its consequences are affecting us hard. the huge levels of unemployment, failing businesses, senseless cuts in the public sector, such as education, healthcare and social systems, affect the most vulnerable people in the union. poor economic and social situation of the population. the economy is falling, the recession is lasting. the people of the union are feeling the effects of the current problems firsthand. no wonder they're losing faith in the european project. there are long debates in brussels about how to get out of the crisis. but the people of the individual member states are not feeling the real results of our efforts. our debates are going nowhere! the crisis measures are not effective enough and we are only wasting precious time! summits are zero solutions. it's time to wake up and take action! concrete measures to promote growth and employment are needed. the necessary measures must be taken to reverse the impending collapse of the eu's global competitiveness. measures must be taken to revive our single market. we need to strengthen fiscal, economic and political integration. we need a concrete plan for creating a banking union. we need a greater degree of solidarity with each other. either we join forces because the european project is worth fighting for, or we simply go down on our own. to take the necessary action, we must overcome political short-sightedness and set an ambitious plan.
written − the commission proposal for a new directive allows for the adoption of a comprehensive legal framework offering all victims of crime, irrespective of their legal status or recognition, the widest possible protection within the union. the commission has extended the rights of all victims of any crime to minimum standards across the eu and grants all victims, regardless of their nationality or the place where the crime was committed, amongst others, the right to information, the right to understand and be understood, the right to interpretation and translation, but also other rights, including the recognition of the definition of victim for immediate family members. the new directive is intended to defend the rights of victims, but also to build the trust of eu citizens in national and neighbouring justice systems in the context of their harmonisation, and i personally fully support these steps.
in writing − the establishment of minimum standards on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, as provided for in the proposed directive, will help to protect victims of crime throughout the european union by establishing general standards for the safeguarding of victims' rights, irrespective of the member state in which the victim is located. in my view, the whole system of victim protection is based on facilitating the reporting of crime, in which care must be taken to eliminate so-called repeated victimisation. indeed, many forensic and psychological studies point to the fact that many victims do not report the crime committed against them because of fears of insensitive and often impersonal routine access by law enforcement authorities. it is therefore not enough to regret that these are primarily victims of trafficking in human beings, children as victims of sexual abuse, sexual exploitation and pornography, but it is necessary to adopt specific legal measures with effect throughout the european union. for the reasons set out above, i support the proposal for a directive.
written − the 2010 council report maps the union's foreign policy priorities but does not address the priorities or the strategic guidelines for the cfsp. moreover, the report does not explain the political mechanisms for ensuring coherence and consistency between the different components of foreign policy, including those for which the commission is responsible. the union urgently needs more synergy on the basis of the triple mandate of catherine ashton as high representative of the union for foreign affairs and security policy, vice-president of the commission and president of the foreign affairs council, supported by the eeas. we need to take quality, bold, decisive and timely action on the cfsp. at the same time, however, we must remain realistic in setting our goals and weigh our priorities carefully, given the resources at our disposal.
in writing. − the 2010 council report contains important steps to map the union's foreign policy priorities in the forward-looking and strategic framework. however, the report falls short of the ambitions of the lisbon treaty in important areas, inter alia, by not paying attention to the priorities and strategic guidelines for the common foreign and security policy. the report does not explain the political mechanisms for ensuring coherence and consistency between the different components of foreign policy. it avoids questions of aligning eu resources with our foreign affairs priorities. parliament therefore calls on the vice-president of the commission to take the lead in taking quality and bold action and also to give priority to the european neighbourhood policy in this situation. i supported the ep's position.
my dear officer! a stable economic environment and a secure energy supply are of paramount importance for the development of the european union's industry. the best way to ensure that this is reliable is through a functioning internal energy market. with the introduction of the third energy package, several member states have also decoupled electricity generation from transmission, which has allowed new entrants to enter the market. however, external vulnerability remains, meaning that the eu can only import more than 60% of its gas and more than 80% of its oil. the 2009 gas crisis also highlighted the vulnerability of our energy supply systems. we must find solutions as soon as possible to ensure that european consumers are supplied sustainably at competitive prices. the challenges include intergovernmental agreements between member states and third countries in the field of energy supply, as contracts are occasionally concluded which can seriously affect the eu's internal energy market. therefore, in order to avoid infringements of the internal market rules in force in the field of energy supply, there is a need for enhanced cooperation and an accurate exchange of information between member states. experience shows that the participation of the commission in negotiations between member states and third parties can have a positive impact on the outcome of those negotiations. this can in many cases help to bring the contracts into line with internal market rules and ensure that they are not in conflict with union law.
in writing the european agricultural sector uses safe, clean and environmentally friendly methods to produce quality products that meet consumer requirements. the regional diversity of food and traditional production methods, some of which date back centuries, the emphasis on safety and good environmental conditions all contribute to the fact that the quality of european food is among the highest in the world. this quality-oriented approach can help to value the highest quality products in domestic as well as international markets. the eu has established a set of labels and quality systems within its food quality policy that recognise the high value characteristics of products as well as regional product specifications. the new quality legislative proposals put forward by the commission will improve union legislation on quality as well as on the operation of national and private certification schemes. they aim to make them simpler, more transparent, more understandable, to be adaptable to innovation and to be less burdensome for producers and managers. this will make the european quality system clearer and more comprehensive.
in writing every day, the media reports on the poor quality of food that is being sold to consumers. that's why i want to commend the reporter's work. registration, food labelling, indication of the composition of the product, etc., are only one, albeit essential, measure. i think it is important to educate consumers so that in times of crisis, people do not buy poor quality agricultural products in order to buy cheaper products. if the consumer market were more closely monitored by the national control authorities, we would not be salting ourselves with technical salt, eating chickens that have been frozen twice around the world and four times, and whose origin cannot be traced. such foods are bad for people's health, and people even die. we have examples every year: last year in germany, people are dying from methyl alcohol in the czech republic. i therefore believe that the adoption of a regulation of the ep and the council on quality schemes for agricultural products will also contribute to better ensuring the quality of the food system.
the european union has an exceptionally rich cultural heritage, but unfortunately most of it lies unused in the archives and libraries of the member states and is not accessible to european citizens. in order to preserve the diversity of european culture, it is therefore necessary to make those works accessible at cross-border level. orphan works are works for which the copyright holder cannot be identified or traced. so we don't get into a conflict with copyright ownership either. however, in accordance with the principles of copyright, making a work available to the public requires the authorisation of the rightholder. while the european legislation currently in force provides for certain exceptions that allow for scanning for conservation purposes, it does not permit and does not allow libraries to make such digitised works available online on the internet, even for non-commercial purposes. but we live in a digital age. the rational dissemination of information online has enormous benefits for the internal market. the digitisation of cultural material should also be supported at european level. the european parliament has already expressed its support for the idea of finding a legislative solution to the problem of these so-called orphan works. the new legislation will in future allow for europe-wide online access to these works. the commission's proposal is therefore more than welcome. copyright is the basis for innovation, creation, investment and production in the creative industries. however, we need to improve the current system and adapt it to today's digital world. the online availability of orphan works across the union will lead to the promotion of europe's cultural diversity and to the expansion of knowledge and learning resources.
the report is a good starting point for ensuring that europe's cultural heritage is not only accessible in a limited way. thanks to the legislative process launched recently at eu level in the field of copyright and the cultural and creative industries, europe is catching up and this has a positive impact on our competitiveness. we are also trying to meet the need for orphan works, which will make it easier for researchers, students and eu citizens to do their jobs. the digital world often knows no boundaries. an appropriate union legal framework, on the other hand, can provide protection for copyright holders and users. the parliament has added substantial elements to the proposal, such as the extension of its scope to cover photographic works of art. the directive aims to reduce the information and knowledge gap between the united states and europe. in future, it would be better to emphasise that the european legislator does not just look for reactions to policies outside the eu. the european legal culture has the potential to provide a well-functioning, modern legal framework for cross-border cases.
for the efd group a basic prerequisite for the proper functioning of the legal system is a simple and clear structure of rules that are understandable to the public and are easily enforceable. the repeated comments by national parliaments on the rules adopted by the european institutions point to the fact that we do not always succeed in achieving this quality of rules. the most common criticism is that the european institutions do not respect the principle of subsidiarity and proportionality when they legislate. the ambiguity of the legal language and the lack of transparency of the legal system, where regulations in some areas even overlap, are also often criticised. it is therefore necessary to continue efforts to improve legislation at european level, both through better cooperation with national parliaments and through more efficient use of electronic communication through the ipex and regpex websites. our efforts to simplify and make the legal system in the union more transparent must be seen as a continuous process and must be given constant attention.
for legislation to be effective at european union level, it must first be clear, simple, easy to understand and accessible to all. when european legislation is drawn up, the two fundamental principles of european union law, namely the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality, must be respected. i believe that we must also involve the national parliaments of the member states in the european legislative process in a much greater way, since the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality play an important role in the context of control. the european institutions must also simplify and consolidate their efforts to better draft and simplify european union legislation and to reduce administrative and regulatory burdens. our aim is to ensure that european legislation is as close to the citizen as possible and, in particular, that it is understood. nor must we forget that the principle of subsidiarity can lead to the extension of the union's action within its competence, if circumstances so require, or, conversely, to the limitation or reduction of the action concerned, if it is no longer justified. subsidiarity in this context concerns not only the relationship between the european union and its member states but also the regional and local levels.
in writing. − having regard to the proposal for a council decision (10475/2012), to council decision 2005/781/ec of 6 june 2005 on the conclusion of the agreement for scientific and technological cooperation between the european community and the federative republic of brazil, to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with article 186 and point (a) (v) of the second subparagraph of article 218 (6) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, to rule 81 and rules 90 (7) and 46 (1) of its rules of procedure, and to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, parliament gives its consent to the renewal of the agreement,
in writing. − having regard to the proposal for a council decision (08283/2012), to the draft agreement signed on 19 march 2012 (17318/2011), to the request for consent submitted by the council in accordance with article 186, the second subparagraph of article 218 (6) (a) and article 218 (7) of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, to rules 81, 90 (7) and 46 (1) of its rules of procedure, and to the recommendation of the committee on industry, research and energy, the european parliament gives its consent to the conclusion of the agreement.
in writing − if you have transparency and access to all relevant documents and information is a fundamental and necessary prerequisite for democracy, especially in the case of the european parliament, to be able to fulfil its role. the treaty of lisbon extended parliament's powers as co-legislator with the council. in particular, it strengthened its powers in the field of international agreements. the council's obligation to inform parliament is expressly laid down in article 218 (10) tfeu, which provides that parliament is to be informed immediately and fully at all stages of the procedure. for the effective exercise of its prerogatives and powers, parliament needs access to classified information held by the council. it is therefore necessary to take measures to ensure cooperation between the council and parliament. article 295 tfeu allows for interinstitutional agreements to be concluded for this purpose.
in writing. − for legislation to be effective at eu level, it must first be clear, simple, easy to understand and accessible to all. when we make european legislation, we have a duty to follow the two fundamental principles of eu law, namely the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of proportionality. we also need to involve the national parliaments of the member states more closely in the european legislative process. in the context of control, the principles of subsidiarity and proportionality play an important role. the european institutions must unite their efforts to better draft and simplify eu legislation, as well as to reduce administrative and regulatory burdens. we must ensure that european legislation is as close as possible to the citizen.
in writing. − the effects of the crisis in europe are still being felt and all means must be taken to alleviate them. i supported the report, which again sets out to improve the quality of eu legislation. i believe that there is no other way to cooperate effectively, either at member state or institutional level, than by means of appropriate and clear legislation. i particularly support the idea that we should not increase the administrative burden on citizens and smes. smart regulation should include the possibility to reduce where necessary and to try to achieve by other means what has not been perfectly achieved in the field of transposition and application of legislation. here, the european parliament, as a democratically elected body, can do much through consultation with citizens and through continuous contact with national parliaments. the linkage and communication between them should be given a very important role. we look forward to the commission's promised progress report on the smart regulation agenda in the second half of 2012.
in writing. − the atlantic region is characterised by several features: it is a dynamic maritime area thanks to renewable sources of marine energy, maritime transport, the maritime industry, tourism and fisheries; it is an area with a vulnerable marine environment that needs to be protected; it is an area that is the western gateway to the european union and is therefore strategic for europe; and it is an outermost region of the european union, which raises the question of its accessibility and connectivity with the rest of europe. these problems transcend national borders and require policy solutions that apply to the entire atlantic coast.
in writing. − the cotonou agreement sets out the conditions for the conclusion of economic partnership agreements between members of the african, caribbean and pacific group of states and the eu and its member states. the detailed conditions were laid down in council regulation (ec) no 1528/2007, the so-called market access regulation. this regulation regulates the eu import regime applicable to the 36 african, caribbean and pacific states that initialled economic partnership agreements in 2007. it was a bridging solution for countries that could not yet apply these epas as they were awaiting ratification. several countries have not taken the necessary steps to ratify the epa or to conclude comprehensive regional negotiations. the european commission therefore proposes that those countries which have not yet signed or ratified the agreements be removed from the list of those affected by this provision. the european commission argues that the current situation is not compatible with wto rules and that it is also a question of fairness both towards countries that have fulfilled their commitments and ratified their agreements and towards developing countries that are not african, caribbean and pacific partners.
in writing. − the european union is heavily dependent on energy imports. more than 50% of the eu's total energy needs are imported, with gas and oil even more so. the eu's energy security is therefore sensitive to irregularity in energy supplies from outside the union. in addition, energy imports account for 6% of total eu imports and are associated with high economic costs and risks for the eu economy. it is in the interest of the eu and the member states that external energy relations be governed by intergovernmental agreements and that the negotiating power of the member states and their extensive internal market be strengthened through the exchange of information and best practices between the member states and the commission. intergovernmental agreements can therefore, especially when well coordinated between member states, increase the eu's competitiveness.
in writing. − stable and secure energy supplies are essential to fostering the development of a predictable economic environment for eu citizens and industry. the common energy supplies can best be secured through a functioning internal energy market. the introduction of the third energy package has contributed to the liberalisation of the energy market. many member states have decoupled energy production from its transport, thus enabling new players to enter the energy supply market and significantly increasing its liquidity. external vulnerabilities persist, however, as the eu imports 60% of its natural gas and 80% of its oil. the import rate is thus increasing. the challenges of secure energy supplies at competitive prices, including intergovernmental agreements between member states and third countries in the field of energy, must therefore be addressed. the commission's right to participate in such negotiations can make the outcome more effective.
in writing. − european agriculture produces high quality food and its production methods are environmentally and rural-friendly. the regional diversity of food and traditional production methods, the emphasis on safety and good environmental conditions all contribute to the fact that the quality of european food is among the highest in the world. a quality-oriented approach can help to value the highest quality products in domestic as well as international markets. the quality package presented by the commission aims to improve union legislation on quality, as well as on the operation of national and private certification schemes, to ensure that they are simpler, more transparent, more understandable, can be adapted to innovation and are less burdensome for manufacturers and administrators.
in writing. − the quality package presented by the commission aims to improve the union's quality legislation and also the transposition of internal and private certification systems, with the aim of ensuring that they are simpler, more transparent and more understandable, that they are capable of enabling innovation and that they are less burdensome for producers and managers. the package includes two draft regulations on quality schemes for agricultural products and on marketing standards and two guidance documents on certification schemes and on the labelling of foodstuffs with protected designations of origin and protected geographical indications. the commission's proposal can be seen as a good starting point for making the european quality system clearer and more comprehensive.
in writing. − the proposed regulation creates a legal framework within which various investment funds can be granted the designation 'european social entrepreneurship fund' and the corresponding 'authorisation'. the aim is to create a european sector for investing in legal entities carrying out non-profit-making activities aimed at fulfilling various objectives of a social nature. i support the commission's legislative initiative for a number of reasons. today, investors are increasingly seeking social goals, not just financial returns. a market for social investment is thus emerging in the european union, partly constituted by investment funds targeting social enterprises. such investment funds shall provide funding to social enterprises that act as drivers of social change by offering innovative solutions to social problems, helping to address the social consequences of the financial crisis and contributing in a valuable way to the achievement of the europe 2020 objectives.
in writing − the proposal for a regulation establishes the legal framework under which different types of investment funds can obtain the status of 'european venture capital fund' and a venture capital licence. it aims to create a european venture capital investment sector for smes. the draft regulation lays down the criteria in relation to the available assets that such a fund must meet in order to obtain that status and authorisation. it also lays down requirements to be met by managers of venture capital funds and limits on the ability to invest the assets of the fund.
in writing. − the objective of the bilateral safeguard instrument is to provide a safety net if the industry needs time to adapt to new conditions as a result of the trade liberalisation provided for in the free trade agreement. the instrument will therefore only be applicable for a temporary period of 10 years from the entry into force of the agreement or slightly longer for products which have been liberalised for more than 10 years. the provisions proposed by the european commission for the bilateral safeguard clause of the trade agreements with peru and colombia are very similar to the model regulation implementing the bilateral safeguard clause of the eu-republic of korea free trade agreement, which was the first safeguard regulation for which the european parliament acted as co-legislator. this means that issues that were very important to the european parliament at the time, such as surveillance measures, factors to be taken into account in an investigation, and an online platform for more intensive information exchange, are all part of the proposal.
in writing. − on 22 march 2011, the european commission signed an association agreement with six countries in central america (costa rica, el salvador, guatemala, honduras, nicaragua and panama). the negotiations were conducted in parallel with the negotiations on the trade agreement with colombia and peru and were very similar in character. both agreements consolidate some of the concessions granted to these countries by the eu under the gsp plus system and, in addition, liberalise, in whole or in part, trade in certain agricultural products between the parties. the agreements contain a safeguard clause which needs to be transposed into european law in order to avoid serious distortions of the markets concerned.
in writing. − the european union has an exceptionally rich cultural heritage. however, most of this heritage lies unused in the archives and libraries of the member states and is not accessible to european citizens. in order to preserve the diversity of european culture, it is therefore necessary to make those works accessible at cross-border level. orphan works are works for which the copyright holder cannot be identified or traced. however, in accordance with the principles of copyright, the making available of a work to the public requires the authorisation of the rightholder. while the european legislation currently in force provides for certain exceptions that allow scanning for conservation purposes, it does not allow libraries to make digitised works available online on the internet, even for non-commercial purposes. but we live in a digital age. the rational dissemination of information online has enormous benefits for the internal market. the digitisation of cultural material should also be supported at european level. the european parliament has already expressed support in the past for the idea of finding a legislative solution to the problematic issue of orphan works. new legislation will in future allow europe-wide online access to such orphan works.
in writing. − the commission proposal, presented following the unprecedented floods that devastated large parts of pakistan last summer, seeks to extend autonomous trade preferences to the country and covers 75 product groups important to pakistan's exports (mostly textiles and clothing) by exempting them from duty, with the exception of one product (ethanol) which will be subject to a tariff quota. the proposed measures should be welcomed as an excellent example of the synergies made possible by the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. while the eu and its member states are already providing generous humanitarian assistance to pakistan, the extension of trade preferences to the country is part of a broader package of measures to help address the medium- and long-term economic consequences of the catastrophic floods. ensuring the reconstruction and future sustainable development of pakistan is of paramount importance not only for its citizens but also for security and stability in the region. the stability and prosperity of pakistan, which will not resort to extremism or fundamentalism, is clearly in the eu's interest.
in writing − if you have since march 2011, nearly 20,000 people have been killed and many more injured in the syrian regime's brutal crackdown on its own population. the office of the united nations high commissioner for refugees has registered or is pending the registration of 235 000 syrian refugees. tens of thousands more who have fled syria to neighboring countries are not registered. according to un estimates, more than 1.2 million people have been displaced within syria, and some 3 million people are in urgent need of humanitarian assistance. in august 2012, the crisis worsened in a particularly brutal way, with the result that these figures increased sharply. the massacre of the syrian regime's own people, which has brought the country to the brink of civil war, continues.
in writing. − currently, concerns persist about developments in the russian federation with regard to respect for and protection of human rights and adherence to commonly agreed democratic principles, rules and procedures. the russian federation is a full member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe (osce) and is therefore obliged to uphold the principles of democracy and respect for human rights. there is an increasing need to establish a firm and comprehensive eu policy towards russia, including appropriate criticism, sanctions and restrictive measures, if necessary.
in writing − it is important to mobilise all efforts to stabilise european financial markets and to break the link between banks and public debts so that the construction of a genuine economic and monetary union can begin. the european council and the council finally agree with parliament on the need for a more integrated supervisory system and now call for the establishment of a banking union through the creation of a single supervisory mechanism in conjunction with deposit guarantee schemes and a problem-solving system. in times of crisis, the community method must always be applied, as only in this way will it be ensured that the union can emerge stronger from the crisis.
the huge poverty, the large socio-economic disparities between the vast majority of the poor and a narrow group of the rich naturally generate social tensions in south africa. the events at the marikana lonmin mine in august of this year are direct evidence of this. the violence and brutal intervention of police forces against striking miners has cost dozens of lives and injured dozens more. the large-scale arrests of the miners then triggered large-scale protests by the miners, which spread to other areas. the fact that lonmin mining company has failed to engage with its employees in a civilised dialogue on working conditions shows that multinational groups operating in this country do not value human work and do not look after the decent conditions of their employees. our demand for a thorough investigation of these events, as well as access to justice for the injured and the right to compensation, is the absolute minimum we must achieve.
for the efd group the release of a murderer sentenced to life imprisonment by the azerbaijani president in august this year was shocking news for the civilized world. ilham aliyev thus indirectly told his citizens, as well as the world, that any of the azerbaijani citizens who murdered any armenian, became a hero in his eyes and he would reward and promote him for this murder. the azerbaijani president is basically acting like a mafia boss who rewards his henchmen for murdering his enemies. we are aware that there is a certain frustration in azerbaijan over the occupation of azerbaijani territory by the armenian army. but ramil safarov murdered an armenian colleague during a course in the partnership for peace program that was held in budapest, not somewhere on the border battlefield. i don't want to comment on the professionalism of the hungarian administration in allowing this criminal to return home, but i understand the actions of the armenian government in severing diplomatic relations with hungary. however, i am convinced that our generous policy of accommodation towards azerbaijan is not contributing to the cultivation of the political environment in that country and we should be more cautious in the future in expecting the armenian and azerbaijani governments to agree on a peaceful solution to the karabakh problem.
with regard to the 2013 budget, it should be stressed that this is a budget that we are proposing in a time of continuing crisis. this is crucial, as the union budget is a particularly important tool for overcoming it. the lack of resources in our budget threatens the financing of union policies, including investments in the member states most affected by the crisis, as well as key programmes. the funding of cohesion policies through the cohesion fund is already at risk, and the question hangs over the resources of the european social fund and the erasmus programme. it is imperative that we provide sufficient funds to continue these programmes, which are currently at risk. we must make full use of the budget as an effective crisis package. if we're going to cut, let's cut where it doesn't have a negative impact on the poorest. ladies and gentlemen, i am also referring to the freezing of our contributions, the reduction of travel costs or the reorganisation of working methods in order to find areas of possible savings. such a statement would be a show of solidarity on our part in the european parliament not only towards the budget but also towards the citizens.
in writing. i am very sorry that, despite public criticism, the european parliament's draft budget still includes a house of european history. i disagree with this project on principle. it is not parliament's job to set up and run museums. moreover, in the absence of a common interpretation of the recent past, this project should be called the house of the least common denominator. the budget cuts of eur 5 million represent only a fraction of the estimated costs and do not in any way diminish the absurdity of this project. it is this kind of waste that makes citizens lose sight of the european project. and just to put it in perspective, i would be very interested to hear more about the house of european history from those who are complaining about the need to save money in order to move this parliament permanently to brussels.
it is precisely in times of crisis and its dramatic consequences that citizens of the european union are gradually losing confidence in the european union. i am therefore convinced that raising their awareness of the rights they derive from european citizenship can restore their trust in the union. citizenship of the union includes such important rights as the right to free movement, the right to protection by diplomatic or consular authorities, the right to petition and many others. union citizens can also benefit from safer and cheaper air transport, better and cheaper telephone calls, consumer protection, food safety and access to healthcare systems across the union. the single market allows them to live, work, study and do business in the european union. however, among the most common problems citizens face when living, studying or working in another country is precisely the lack of information and awareness of their rights. these obstacles are being exacerbated by the adverse effects of the crisis, including the rise in unemployment and social unrest.
the european year of citizens report identifies the main stages in the development of eu citizenship over the past 20 years. the maastricht treaty introduced the concept of citizenship of the union in 1993, the treaty of amsterdam and the treaty of lisbon reinforced the rights attached to citizenship of the union in 2009. the rights of eu citizens have been extended, but in my opinion this is still not enough. the most important thing for the eu identity to become a reality is the trust of its citizens. these rights laid down in the treaties should also be applied in practice. the institutions, in particular the commission and parliament, must strive to engage with citizens. we must guarantee equal opportunities and rights for all citizens. i would like to draw the honourable commission's attention to the fact that all citizens of the union cannot properly exercise their rights until all discriminatory legal provisions have been removed from the legal systems of the member states. i cite as examples the slovak citizenship act and the discriminatory parts of the venice decrees.
on 10 october, the european commission published progress reports for each country negotiating its accession to the union. the overall assessment of these reports showed that the process of enlargement of the union in the western balkans is continuing. with difficulties, with problems, with obstacles, but it's a progression. each country has its own specificities in the european agenda, but all have a drive for progress and the european perspective is still an attractive factor. in this situation, the european union needs to cooperate and engage as much as possible in these countries, because it is our own credibility that is at stake. i would like to respond in a sentence or two to what mr bagó, the hungarian member of parliament, has said here. he can use any quasi-legislative constructions and verbal escapades, but he won't change history because history can't be changed.
smes, their competitiveness and entrepreneurial opportunities that is the theme of the day. the objectives of cohesion policy include achieving the economic, social and territorial development of all regions of the union by increasing their competitiveness. many smes have thus received the necessary resources for innovation through the structural funds and have made a significant contribution to job creation. in the context of the transition to the so-called green economy, i believe it is appropriate to support small and medium-sized enterprises, which often bring very ingenious solutions in the field of resource efficiency, energy efficiency and climate change, especially at regional level. horizon 2020 and the structural funds programmes should therefore continue to allocate sufficient resources to support smes under the next multiannual framework.
small and medium-sized enterprises in the european union employ some 75 million people, accounting for 70% of total employment. they also have a huge potential to create new jobs, especially in terms of employing young people. these data show that smes are the driving force of the european economy. these enterprises play an indispensable role in the fight against poverty, social exclusion, and in achieving social stability, cohesion and integration. however, it should be noted that they still face an excessive administrative burden. there are still a number of obstacles to their establishment and development. these include limited access to finance and credit, a lack of transparency in the management of the structural funds in some member states, burdensome regulation and the fact that entrepreneurs, especially women, are often not given the support they need. we must therefore encourage the creation of smes, we must strengthen their competitiveness and we must take measures to reduce the administrative burden they face.
in writing. the proper functioning of smes is essential for the eu to recover from the economic crisis. this is demonstrated by the fact that a large proportion of enterprises are smes, employing 75 million people. we need to find incentives and opportunities for them to help them operate and become more competitive. the main focus should be on improving product market regulation and moving towards innovative sectors. the participation of smes in the continuation of the work on the modernisation and interconnection of energy transmission networks is also essential from the point of view of sustainability and resource efficiency. as the social economy employs more than 11 million people in the european union, it is also important to favour and support social enterprises. i agree that improving the business environment can be one of the factors that can help economic growth. support from the structural funds and the connecting europe facility should be used to improve infrastructure, including reconstruction and modernisation investments. member states should aim to reduce the administrative burden on businesses in a consistent manner. furthermore, i believe that the creation of tax regimes that are favourable to small businesses and of efficient and easily accessible forms of business financing is crucial for businesses and the citizens they employ.
sergei magnitsky is a human rights fighter, and fighting organized crime is actually part of the fight for freedom, for democracy, for human rights. this is something we must support, which we must endorse from this parliament's floor, and we must, i would say, send a clear signal to the russian federation as well that this way, this way of treating its citizens is not acceptable. after all, what kind of democratic country is it that does not provide medical care when such a person convicted is beaten, tortured, harassed and denied medical care. in conclusion, i would like to say that the european union must also remember human rights in its negotiations with the russian federation.
this is good news for citizens of the european union member states who, by trading with the united states, will improve their starting position for their well-being, for the improvement of employment and for the increase of trade between the two entities. of course, there are some contentious issues that need to be overcome. as the rapporteur has already said, it is clear that there are differences in some technical details, for example, as regards the sale and purchase of cars. of course, genetically modified organisms are also a sensitive issue for us in europe. but that can be treated with sensitive negotiation. and meat from cloned animals - these are things that are sensitive to us in the european union as well. but overall, i can conclude that such trade, increased trade turnover and improved contractual relations with the united states is necessary for us.
the european airspace is one of the busiest in the world with more than 750 million passengers and this number is expected to double by 2030. it is estimated that the full and timely deployment of single european sky air traffic management research (sesar) technologies in the eu-27 over the period 2013-2030 could have a cumulative impact on eu gdp of up to eur 419 billion, with the direct or indirect creation of 328 000 new jobs. the net co2 savings will even reach approximately 50 million tonnes. these are all parameters for which the single european sky is worth pursuing.
i would like to support this initiative to improve, clarify and extend transport legislation. it should be noted that transport legislation cannot be approached in a sectoral way, because the various modes of transport are interrelated, interconnected, and it is also necessary to look at this legislation from this point of view - from the point of view of the user, the passenger. the following considerations should be borne in mind: if one means of transport fails, the passenger may not be able to use the next means of transport. in this respect, particular attention should be paid to the operators of scheduled services, who should be responsible for carrying a passenger at a given time, on a given date, under the conditions agreed in the conditions of carriage. if they are unable to do so, then there should be an appropriate penalty and compensation for the passenger who has been deprived of the services to which he was entitled.
the foundation stone of the european union is the member states, which form the european community and delegate part of their powers and funding to the european union. only the member states, their governments and national parliaments have the right to say how much of their taxpayers' money they put into the european union's joint activities. at a time when all the countries of the union and their citizens are being forced to make serious savings, the commission must also contribute to the consolidation of the union's economy and flexibly reassess priorities in line with the current economic situation. i personally support solidarity within the european union and believe that we need to look for models of solutions that not only bring about a solidarity-based redistribution of funds, but also prevent these funds from being misused for projects that do not bring the benefits of solidarity to the developing parts of europe that could help them to grow economically.
in some countries, without cohesion there would be no public investment, and without investment all engines would stop working in a moment and we could not talk about fighting the crisis. cohesion policy benefits not only the poor member states but also, because of the single market, the rich member states, which are important suppliers of products, services and know-how. in this context, i would like to recall the joint declaration of the high representatives of the 15 member states friends of cohesion of 5 october, which took place in bratislava, slovakia. among them were representatives of the new member states as well as of the old ones. participants declared that the cohesion policy is a key investment instrument for our countries. if funding is cut in this area, we will not achieve either the ambitions and objectives of the council, which recently adopted them in its conclusions, or the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the 15 heads of state agreed that there was no room for reducing cohesion policy funding. i believe that this strong message will be taken into account in the final decision on the future of europe.
the multiannual financial framework must reflect the political ambitions of the european union as set out in the europe 2020 strategy and respond to the expectations of the citizens of the european union. the budget should clearly remain justified, stimulating, but above all pro-growth, in order to overcome the economic crisis once and for all as soon as possible and to increase employment and the well-being of its citizens, while at the same time consolidating its position on world markets. cohesion policy therefore requires adequate financial resources. in no case shall these appropriations be lower than in the current programming period. on the contrary, the budget for cohesion policy should be increased further, as expenditure represents strategic investments in areas with added value.
in writing . the next european council meeting took place on 18 and 19 october. in the context of the interim report on economic and monetary union, it is necessary to agree on a specific legislative framework for the ssm as soon as possible and no later than 1 january 2013. the process towards deepening economic and monetary union must in particular be open and transparent towards member states outside the euro area, while respecting the integrity of the single market u.we need a real economic and monetary union u. the smooth functioning of economic and monetary union requires more intensive and sustainable economic growth, employment and social cohesion i agree that governance within the euro area should continue to be improved the legislators should adopt legislative proposals on budgetary surveillance by the end of year 2 at the latest. 012.this is key legislation that is indispensable to strengthen the new economic governance of the eu. the european council also agreed on the need to break the vicious circle between banks and the private sector. we need precise operational criteria to guide the direct recapitalisation of banks by the european stability mechanism. the commission's main priorities are to promote employment and social inclusion, to promote the development of the labour market and to promote the social integration of young people. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the new regulation to include the following areas: the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: of the year.
in writing. − at the plenary session of 2 july 2012, the president announced, in accordance with rule 6 (2) of the rules of procedure of the european parliament, that he had received a letter from the vienna prosecutor general's office of 21 march 2012 requesting the waiver of the parliamentary immunity of mr martin ehrenhauser in connection with the ongoing legal proceedings. in the letter, the prosecutor general states that, according to the interpretation of the facts submitted by another member of the european parliament, hans-peter martin, martin ehrenhauser is suspected of having, from the end of summer 2010 until april 2011, illegally accessed hans-peter martin's private mailbox and opened, copied and printed his private and work data, in particular e-mail messages including attachments. hans-peter martin also allegedly submitted to the general prosecutor's office in vienna a set of documents to serve as proof of the illegal entry. on the basis of the facts, the prosecutor general's office in vienna considers the initial suspicion against martin ehrenhauser to be well founded.
in writing. − the cobu committee has voted in favour of the general budget for 2013 of eur 1 750 463 939. the rapporteur's objective of maintaining the overall growth rate of the budget of the institutions within the forecast inflation of 1.9%, including the cost of enlargement of croatia, was achieved. the exceptions are the eeas, the court of justice and the ombudsman, where the committee voted in favour of higher growth in view of the specific situation of these institutions. the intention was to partially restore the proposed budgets to inflation-sustainability. the proposal put forward was supported by the majority of the political groups. taking into account the vote of the committee responsible, parliament's budget for 2013 will be increased by 1,9% compared to the 2012 budget. the increase was made possible by a series of savings achieved in the previous period during the years 2011 - 2012.
in writing. − the negotiations on the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework are entering their final and decisive phase. a european council meeting is due to take place at the end of november, at which a political agreement is expected to be reached. this should be reflected in the multiannual financial framework regulation. before it enters into force, the regulation must be approved by the european parliament. in the spirit of good interinstitutional cooperation, the european parliament decided to adopt an interim report setting out the main political priorities on the subject. the draft interim report was adopted by a majority in the committee on budgets.
in writing. − if you have when it was created in 1970, the vat-based own resource was designed as a potential genuine own resource, on the assumption that the ongoing process of harmonisation of national vat legislation would ultimately bring about full harmonisation of national vat bases. over time, however, it has been transformed into a complex and opaque statistical tool, which is in fact one of the forms of contribution based on gni and is shifted from national budgets. as early as june 2011, the commission presented its proposal for a multiannual financial framework for the years 2014-2020, together with a set of proposals for reforming the union's own resources system. the proposal is that the new eu vat-based own resource is based on the share of vat on supplies of goods and services, acquisitions and imports subject to the standard vat rate in each member state. it is therefore based on the actual harmonisation that already exists for these goods and services at a standard rate throughout the eu. also, under the new system, the european commission will carry out the bulk of the calculations currently carried out by the member states. i believe that this proposal represents an important improvement on the current system and has the potential to become a stable and reliable genuine own resource for the union budget.
in writing. − if you have in the interests of legal clarity and in order to simplify the negotiations between the european parliament and the council, the proposal merges the two previous commission proposals concerning the revision of the financial regulation and replaces them by a single text in a standard legislative format. since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the revision of the financial regulation has been carried out in accordance with the ordinary legislative procedure laid down in article 322 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the budget is one of the main instruments for implementing the policies of the european union. i believe that in the current economic situation it is very important and essential that budget implementation mechanisms function as efficiently as possible, simplify the implementation of union policies and ensure that european taxpayers' money is used in a transparent, efficient and accountable manner.
the amendment goes far beyond the agreement reached between the commission and israel on products produced in israeli settlements. i am fundamentally opposed to using this treaty to punish israel in any way. some of our colleagues have used this discussion to make hateful political statements against israel. i'm sorry we measure countries by double standards. we're all trying to resolve the conflict in the middle east, but the solution is not to put business pressure on one side. especially not if commissioner de gucht also considers the current mechanisms for controlling products produced in israeli settlements to be sufficient.
the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement on conformity assessment and acknowledgement of industrial products (acaa) between the member states of the european union and israel will facilitate mutual trade through a single regulatory framework, in particular in the field of medicines and pharmaceuticals and in particular generics. i am convinced that, from an economic and technical point of view, this protocol to the existing agreement, especially in a time of economic crisis, is a beneficial step forward not only for industry but also for the final addressee, the european patient. israel is an important middle east democratic partner for the eu, and the progress in relations is also evidenced by the 60 new joint projects in 15 different areas recently adopted by the eu-israel association council. i am in favour of adopting this agreement, because rejecting it would not be constructive or help improve israeli-palestinian relations.
the free movement of persons, the rule of law, civil and human rights, an open labour market, the recognition of diplomas - these are all achievements of citizens in the individual member states of the european union. it was the european parliament that asked the commission in 2010 to declare the coming year the european year of citizens. the european year of citizens is, of course, an opportunity to talk about europe in a sensible way, to increase interest in european affairs, to increase participation in the member states, for example in elections. i am not in favour of any european superstate, but i believe that the european year of citizens will contribute to raising awareness and information about the individual rights and obligations of union citizens, which should logically also encourage citizens' participation in democratic life.
as the shadow rapporteur for this report in the european people's party, i know how difficult it was to incorporate the overall perception of development aid into the resolution presented. the socialists also voted in favour of my amendment on intergenerational solidarity in the development committee. but today in the house the socialist group has asked for a separate vote on paragraph 15. they aimed to remove the family dimension from development aid. the family is the cornerstone of any policy that looks to the future. this is as true in africa as it is in europe. without family policy and solidarity between generations, there is no fight against poverty and no sustainable development. i am therefore pleased that paragraph 15 was finally retained in the adopted text.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 4/2012 to the general budget for 2011 pursues three objectives: to create four budget lines to reallocate a maximum of 10% of the european regional development fund and cohesion fund funds for the period 2007-2013 to risk-sharing instruments, to revise the own resources forecasts and subsequently to reflect them in the budget, which will lead to a change in the distribution of the member states' contributions to the own resources of the eu budget, and to replace the line in the payment appropriations of budget line 16 03 05 01 preparatory action euroglobe with the indication p.m. in order to allow the transfer to take place. draft amending budget no 4/2012 is fully in line with the amendments to the financial regulation agreed by the european parliament and the council. the european parliament approved the council's opinion on draft amending budget no 4/2012 without amendments and instructs its president to declare the amending budget definitively adopted and to arrange for its publication in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. − if you have on 10 may 2012, the european parliament suspended its decision on the discharge and closure of the accounts of the european food safety authority for the financial year 2010. the authority subsequently provided detailed replies to the discharge authority by letters of 29 june 2012 and 20 august 2012. the european parliament took note of the authority's statement that adequate measures to improve financial management are currently in place and that the implementation rate for commitment appropriations approached 100% in 2011. he pointed out that the main task of the authority is to provide independent, scientific and transparent advice on matters that have a direct or indirect impact on food and feed safety. at the same time, he also stressed the need to take measures to preserve the credibility of the office. the european parliament's representatives expressed the belief that necessary action should be taken if cases of non-compliance with the rules in force were to emerge. in such a situation, an action plan, accompanied by a precise timetable, aimed at correcting the deficiencies, should be drawn up. threatening problems must be addressed by amending the applicable rules and regulations to close any gaps.
in writing. − on 10 may 2012, the european parliament postponed its decision on the discharge and closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2010. the european medicines agency subsequently addressed to a large extent the deficiencies highlighted in the report of 10 may 2012 and provided the relevant information to the discharge authority by letters of 2 and 6 july 2012 and 2, 7 and 24 august 2012. the european parliament, having regard to the second report of the committee on budgetary control and the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and food safety, and having regard to the closure of the accounts of the european medicines agency for the financial year 2010, gives discharge to the executive director of the european medicines agency in respect of the implementation of the agency's budget for the financial year 2010. it shall forward this decision and the resolution that forms an integral part of it, as represented by its president, to the executive director of the european medicines agency, the council, the commission and the court of auditors, and shall ensure their publication in the official journal of the european union.
in writing. − council decision 2008/971/ec of 16 december 2008 on the equivalence of forest reproductive material produced in third countries lays down the conditions under which forest reproductive material classified as 'identified source' and 'selective' produced in third countries may be imported into the european union. according to those rules, the systems for the approval and registration of basic material and the subsequent production of propagating material from that basic material should be in line with the organisation for economic cooperation and development (oecd) system for the certification of forest reproductive material in international trade. as regards 'qualified' material, those conditions should include the provision of information on whether or not the products have been genetically modified. i therefore consider that decision 2008/971/ec should be amended accordingly.
in writing. − the maastricht treaty established citizenship of the union in 1993 to strengthen european identity and enable european citizens to participate actively in the european integration process. citizenship of the union, automatically granted to all nationals of the member states, is supplemented by national citizenship. at present, we face a lack of visibility of union citizenship and a lack of awareness of the concrete benefits it brings to citizens, students, consumers and businesses, as well as to providers of goods and services in the european union. the most common problems faced by union citizens when they live, study or work in another eu country include a lack of information and awareness of their rights, not to mention language barriers and the non-recognition of diplomas and qualifications. citizens are demanding concrete solutions to their daily problems, equal opportunities for all without discrimination on the grounds of nationality, age, disability, gender, sexual orientation, faith or religious belief. i am convinced that the european year of citizenship is an opportunity to provide a strong impetus to improve citizens' awareness of union citizenship and has the potential to stimulate citizens' participation in the democratic life of the union.
in writing. − as the only direct intermediary between citizens and the union, the european parliament called on the commission in 2010 to declare 2013 the european year of citizens, on the occasion of the 20th anniversary of the maastricht treaty, which introduced the concept of citizenship of the union. i welcome the european year of citizens, especially in view of the upcoming european parliament elections in 2014. in the past, low turnout in european parliament elections has been a sad reality, contributing in some way to the union's so-called democratic deficit. i am convinced that the year of citizens will contribute to raising awareness and information about the individual rights and duties of union citizens, which should logically also encourage citizens' participation in democratic life. for the above reasons, i support the european year of citizens and believe that the budget should also allocate corresponding funds to enhance the active democratic participation of citizens in the union's activities.
in writing. − i supported and welcomed parliament's resolution of 15 december 2010 calling on the commission to designate 2013 as the european year of citizens. next year will certainly be another good opportunity to spread awareness of citizens' rights and the benefits of eu citizenship. with the accession of new member states to the eu and the enlargement of the schengen border, it may be a good opportunity for parliament to act as a direct intermediary between citizens and the union. meps play a crucial role in communicating the rights and benefits of union citizenship, gender equality, the participation of women and men in the democratic life of the union, public health, equal opportunities and equal treatment, access to employment, social protection and many other benefits. the commission's evaluation report 2010-2013, as well as the evaluation of the measures and the adoption of new ones, will be further appropriate incentives not only to celebrate the european year of citizenship, but also to raise awareness of citizens' rights.
in writing. − eu citizens should be better informed about their rights and opportunities. we live in difficult times, and it is therefore of the utmost importance that we talk about what unites us as europeans. but we should not forget that every eu citizen is first and foremost a citizen of a member state. eu citizenship cannot replace national identity, but it can be a useful complement to it. i agree with the rapporteur that it would be good to change the title and change the 'european year of citizens' to 'european year of citizenship'. it would be more logical and at the same time this amendment would be in line with the original proposal of the european parliament. the european year of citizenship 2013 would thus commemorate the 20th anniversary of the establishment of european citizenship. by making the concrete benefits of union citizenship for individuals more visible, we can contribute to a better understanding of the meaning and benefits of european integration. the common denominator of activities during the european year should be the strengthening of belonging, tolerance, mutual understanding, solidarity and social and societal cohesion.
in writing. − the russian federation, as a member of the council of europe and the organisation for security and cooperation in europe, has committed itself to full respect for fundamental rights and the rule of law. the european union has repeatedly offered russia additional assistance and expertise to help the russian federation modernise and comply with its constitutional and legal order. the arrest, conditions of detention and subsequent death of sergei magnitsky constitute a well-documented and serious case of violation of fundamental human rights. in addition, the post-mortem prosecution of sergei magnitsky is in violation of international and domestic law and clearly indicates the malfunctioning of the russian criminal justice system. the european union has repeatedly and at several levels, from regular human rights consultations to summits, urged the russian authorities to conduct a thorough and independent investigation into this particular and well-documented case and to take the necessary steps to end the current atmosphere of impunity. visa restrictions and other restrictive measures are not ordinary criminal sanctions but constitute a necessary and legitimate foreign policy instrument by which the union expresses its concern. it is precisely the eu sanctions in the sergei magnitsky case that could prompt the russian authorities to make a genuine and renewed effort to address the rule of law in russia in a more concrete and convincing way.
in writing. − air transport plays a major role in the economy and society of the european union. in this context, the air traffic management system is of key importance for air transport activities, addressing issues related to competitiveness, safety and sustainability. the air traffic management is still based on national sovereign airspace. in europe, it is highly fragmented and dominated by national monopoly service providers. as traffic volumes have increased significantly, not least due to the development of the single air transport market, this fragmentation now presents serious problems, in particular with regard to capacity and long delays for passengers. the single european sky does not yet exist. the single european sky initiative, which is based on five pillars: performance, safety, technology, airports and the human factor, is a possible solution. the idea presented has strong political support. the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety and will continue to monitor the implementation of the union's policy on air safety.
in writing. − since 2004, when the european union acquired air traffic control competence, decision-making methods have moved from the intergovernmental level to the european union framework. the eu's main objective is to reform air traffic management in europe to cope with the continuing growth of air traffic and to make air traffic operations as safe, efficient and environmentally friendly as possible. the commission communication on this issue details the results of the sesar (single european sky air traffic management research) joint undertaking study on the macroeconomic impact of the sesar project. if sesar is implemented as planned, the projections are very promising. the cumulative impact on gdp is expected to be eur 419 billion. furthermore, there will be room to create 328 000 jobs and to reduce co2 emissions by 50 million tonnes. the benefits of the full and timely implementation of the single european sky are therefore too great to be ignored.
in writing. − if you have since the relevant targets were set in the commission's 2011 white paper, a comprehensive package of eu passenger rights across all modes of transport has been developed, providing a minimum level of protection for passengers while contributing to a level playing field between transport operators. however, the current regulations do not clearly set out the rights of passengers and the obligations of service providers and therefore require revision. the common criteria (non-discrimination, equal treatment, physical accessibility and accessibility from the point of view of information and communication technologies, design requirements for all, performance of the transport contract, accurate, timely and accessible information before, during and after the journey, immediate and adequate assistance in the event of problems and possible compensation) correspond, together with the ten specific passenger rights (defined by the commission in its communication), to the fundamental rights in all modes of transport and form a solid basis for the establishment of a legally enforceable charter of passenger rights. the same basic principles and rights have been introduced in all modes of transport to make travelling in the eu easier and more enjoyable by improving the quality of services, the protection of passengers and the attractiveness of the european transport sector. these passenger rights will remain an integral part of the european vision of transport policy, although the conditions and modalities for the exercise of these rights will vary and evolve.
in writing. − if you have the fragmentation of passenger rights in the most important modes of transport, such as air, rail, water and road, weakens the position of passengers. passengers, like all other consumers, have a right to accurate and clear information and it is therefore the right approach to establish a minimum set of their rights in all modes of transport. i consider it a priority to clearly define the rights of passengers and the obligations of service providers. the approximation of legislation in these four modes of transport will, in my view, lead to the establishment of a level playing field between transport operators, who do not yet apply many of the minimum rights of passengers. the establishment of a list of minimum passenger rights is only a first step towards improving the situation in practice, as passengers encounter difficulties in exercising their legal rights on a daily basis. regular monitoring of compliance with rights and, in particular, the enforcement of passenger rights by national authorities, is therefore a necessary logical step towards a real improvement in the situation of passengers in the eu.
in writing. − i consider the protection of passengers from the behaviour of carriers to be a very important objective in the field of transport. in air and rail transport, the relevant regulations are already in force; in water and bus transport, the regulations will only enter into force in december 2012 and march 2013 respectively, so we will only be able to evaluate their application in the future. the relevant air transport regulations regulate the system of compensation and assistance to passengers in the event of denied boarding, cancellation or long delay, as well as the liability of airlines in the event of loss, delay or damage to baggage. the protection of disabled passengers is also essential, while focusing on, for example, the quality of services for this group, including unhindered access to airports, proper training of staff and clarification of liability issues in the event of loss or damage to mobility equipment. transport-related problems are a constant concern for our citizens and it is therefore necessary to harmonise their rights in all modes of transport.
in writing. − the current migration of eu citizens for work is a daily occurrence today. i therefore welcome and support the report on passenger rights in all modes of transport. every week, when travelling to brussels or strasbourg from different member states, we find that there is often a lack of real-time information. in its proposal for the amendment of passenger rights, the commission should clearly define the 'extraordinary circumstances' of disruption of transport, the rights of passengers using several modes of transport at the same time. current eu passenger rights legislation is still not applied and enforced in all modes of transport or in all parts of the eu, which hinders competitiveness and affects citizens' confidence in travel. the introduction of common standards for the carriage of hand luggage is also of the utmost importance, since many carriers charge a price for 1 kg of excess weight just before boarding an aircraft that exceeds the price of the ticket.
in writing. − passengers have the right to access accurate information about the service offered by carriers, so that they can make an informed decision. however, european legislation should not play the role of a nanny. it is intended to ensure that citizens are compensated if the carrier breaches the conditions of carriage. overregulation hurts the free market and drives up prices. so it's important to find the right balance.
in writing. − as an institution of the union, the council should be subject to the control of european citizens as regards the use of union funds. parliament is the only directly elected institution of the union and it gives discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union. it is necessary and justified to carry out an in-depth assessment of the supervisory and control systems that exist in the council, similar to the assessments carried out by the court of auditors on the court of justice, the european ombudsman and the european data protection supervisor in the context of the preparation of its annual report for the financial year 2010. in my view, there is no doubt that effective budgetary control requires great responsibility and its successful implementation depends entirely on uninterrupted interinstitutional cooperation between the council and parliament.
in writing. − if you have on 10 may 2012, the european parliament postponed its decision on the discharge and closure of the accounts of the european environment agency for the financial year 2010. the agency subsequently replied to the discharge authority by letters of 24 may, 15 june and 3 july 2012. the european parliament has always welcomed the professional, reliable and independent provision of information by the agency to all union institutions, member states and policy-making bodies and will expect such a professional approach in the future. parliament also expressed its conviction that the necessary action should be taken in the event of non-compliance with the rules in force. in the event of such a situation arising, the agency shall draw up an action plan aimed at remedying the deficiencies. it is up to the european parliament or the european legislator to address these problems swiftly by amending the rules and regulations in force in order to close any gaps. as regards the issue of the 2010 discharge, the european parliament refuses to grant the executive director of the european environment agency discharge for the implementation of the agency's 2010 budget.
in writing. − at its meeting on 26 september 2012, the committee on budgetary control heard the council's candidate for member of the court of auditors and assessed his qualifications. leonard orban has been minister for european affairs since september 2011. in the past, as a member of the european commission, he was responsible for multilingualism. he also acted as the main negotiator with the european union when coordinating the preparations for romania's accession to the european union. however, the european parliament disagrees with the council's proposal to appoint mr orban as a member of the court of auditors and has instructed its president to forward this decision to the council and, for information, to the court of auditors, as well as to the other institutions of the european union and the audit authorities of the member states.
in writing. − point 28 of the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 between the european parliament, the council and the commission on budgetary discipline and sound financial management allows the mobilisation of the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) via the flexibility instrument with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million over and above the relevant headings of the financial framework. ireland submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in talk talk broadband services (ireland) limited and its three suppliers or downstream producers, on 29 february 2012 and supplemented it by additional information up to 15 may 2012. this application complies with the requirements for establishing financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposes to make available eur 2 696 382. i am of the opinion that the egf should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application from ireland
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. sweden submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in astrazeneca on 23 december 2011 and supplemented it by additional information by 16 april 2012. the application submitted complies with the requirements for establishing the financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposes to make available eur 4 325 854. i therefore consider that the egf should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by sweden.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the scope of the egf was extended for applications submitted from 1 may 2009 to 30 december 2011 to include support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. on 28 december 2011, spain submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies affecting 878 workers in 35 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 25 ('manufacture of finished metal products other than machinery') in the nuts ii region of galicia (es11) and supplemented it by additional information up to 28 may 2012. the application submitted complies with the requirements for establishing the financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposed to make available eur 2 029 235.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. its scope was extended for applications submitted from 1 may 2009 to 30 december 2011 to include support for workers made redundant as a direct consequence of the global financial and economic crisis. on 15 december 2011, the netherlands submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in 54 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 41 ('building') and operating in the nuts ii region of gelderland (nl22), and supplemented it by additional information up to 11 june 2012. the application complies with the requirements for establishing the financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. i think it is justified to make a financial contribution from the egf in accordance with the application from the netherlands, in the amount of eur 2 898 594.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf with an annual ceiling of eur 500 million. the netherlands submitted an application on 28 december 2011 to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in zalco aluminium zeeland company nv and two supply companies (ecl services netherlands bv and start) and supplemented it by additional information up to 18 june 2012. this application complies with the requirements for establishing financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposed to make available eur 1 494 008.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was set up to provide additional assistance to workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. its scope was extended for applications submitted between 1 may 2009 and 30 december 2011 to include aid for workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis. france submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in the psa peugeot citroën group in france, on 5 may 2010 and supplemented it by additional information up to 13 april 2012. the application submitted complies with the requirements for establishing the financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. in my view, it is therefore justified to mobilise the egf in order to provide a financial contribution of eur 11 949 666 to france.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. denmark submitted an application on 14 may 2012 to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in the vestas group, and supplemented it by additional information up to 10 july 2012. the application complies with the requirements for establishing the financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by denmark, the egf should, therefore, be mobilised in the amount of eur 7 488 000.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. germany submitted an application on 4 may 2012 to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in manroland ag and its two branches, as well as in respect of one supplier, and supplemented it by additional information up to 10 july 2012. the german application submitted complies with the requirements for establishing the financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposes to mobilise the egf and to make available to germany an amount of eur 5 352 944.
in writing. − if you have rapid technological advances have resulted in the constant revision of international dual-use control lists. although decisions taken under international export control regimes are not legally binding, it is precisely because of international commitments undertaken by member states that it is necessary and important to update the eu dual-use export control list regularly. these updates must be regularly and timely incorporated into eu legislation, taking into account their security and trade implications. in case international export control regimes decide to add new items to the control lists, these added items must be checked continuously for security reasons throughout the eu. at the same time, the decision of international export control regimes to stop checking certain items must also be transposed into eu law as quickly as possible in order to make eu exporters competitive on the global market. taking into account and sensing the rapid pace of developments in the world, it is necessary to ensure that the current eu general export authorisations can be adapted promptly as regards their destination and the range of items. i believe that such a move is justified also in order to allow the eu export control system to take due account of the change in the global situation.
in writing. − it is of particular importance that crews who have been trained in different countries and with different systems on board the same ship have the skills necessary to perform their duties in a safe manner. training plays an important role in maritime safety. it is the training of seafarers, together with their certification, that is governed by the international convention on standards of training, qualification and watchkeeping for seafarers (stcw convention), adopted by the international maritime organisation in 1978. the convention entered into force in 1984 and was substantially amended in 1995. a comprehensive review was launched earlier in 2010 at the conference of the parties to the stcw convention in manila and introduced significant amendments to the stcw convention which entered into force on 1 january 2012. i am of the opinion that the union rules on training and certification of seafarers should continue to be consistent with international rules in order to avoid conflict between the obligations of the european union and the international obligations of the member states of the union, all of which are parties to the stcw convention and have subscribed to the amendments adopted at the manila conference.
in writing. − the committee on foreign affairs (afet) was asked to draw up an opinion on the additional protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, on conformity assessment and the recognition of industrial products (acaa) for the committee on international trade (inta) under the consent procedure. bilateral relations between the eu and israel are based on an association agreement and an action plan. the protocol will allow eu exporters who so wish to test and certify their industrial products against the same harmonised requirements and standards, only once, before export, and subsequent access to the israeli market without the need for a further conformity assessment certification procedure. this will also apply in reverse, based on the same harmonised requirements and standards. the european parliament gave its consent to the conclusion of the agreement and at the same time invited the commission to report regularly to it on any progress in the implementation of the protocol.
in writing. − the framework agreement removes technical barriers to trade in industrial products. the acaa provides for two mechanisms. first, a mechanism for the recognition of the equivalence of technical regulations, standardisation and conformity assessment of industrial products covered by both community legislation and the national legislation of the partner country. secondly, they are mechanisms for the mutual recognition of industrial products which meet the requirements for placing on the market of one of the parties in accordance with the legislation. like the commission, i consider that the proposed acaa will strike an acceptable balance as regards the benefits to all parties and that commercial advantages will be achieved through the acaa. i therefore supported the protocol to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, on conformity assessment and the recognition of industrial products in the final vote.
in writing. − the millennium development goals were adopted in 2000, but significant changes have taken place and deepened since then. first of all, globalization, fueled by a more liberal world trade, has become a huge source of wealth creation. this reduces inequalities between countries, but increases them within countries, and this affects all countries, both industrialised and non-industrialised. in this context, the commission places particular emphasis on the quality of the aid in its programme of amendments. in addition, there is reason to believe that greater selectivity is being promoted at the level of the selection of partner countries. this could result in some developing countries being removed from the list of european official development assistance recipients. with its agenda for change, the eu is striving to be the best donor, while striving to excel in three areas in particular: public governance, inclusive and sustainable economic growth and the development of social protection systems in developing countries. i also consider it equally important that all other donors also make intensive efforts in the area of joint planning.
in writing. − the lisbon treaty requires that development policy be coherent and aimed at reducing poverty and promoting economic growth in developing countries. globalisation has presented new challenges to the world as economic centres are gradually shifting from developed to developing countries, which continue to face the problem of poverty. however, the mdgs remain mere ideals that are very difficult to achieve. as regards the three areas in which the eu should excel: public governance, inclusive and sustainable economic growth and the development of social protection systems in developing countries, i believe that the emphasis should be on the development of social protection, which is absent in many developing countries. in particular, people with disabilities in developing countries live up to 82% below the poverty line. in conclusion, i would like to point out that in developing countries with high birth rates, we must not resort to practices that are contrary to the right to life, human dignity and the right to family life, but must focus all our attention on ensuring sufficient economic growth.
in writing. − with a view to achieving the millennium development goals, it is essential to focus on those areas of development policy which would take account in particular of the quality of the aid given. the eu, as the main donor, should therefore be the exclusive example in the field of governance, inclusive and sustainable economic growth and the development of social protection systems in developing countries. to achieve its ambitions, the eu needs to secure sufficient resources. we're talking about the ability to provide advice, situational awareness, as well as the ability to think strategically. eu funding to third countries is intended to contribute to sustainable poverty reduction and inclusive growth in countries. this requires a review of current spending, investing in joint donor planning and addressing new development aid actors such as china and india. what we must not forget is the direction of european development policy. our priority is to fight poverty! we must direct all our efforts towards this goal, not letting ourselves be discouraged by the more modest results of cooperation, but continuing to fight for the coherence and effectiveness of eu development aid.
in writing. − there are some 23 million small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) in the european union, representing about 99% of enterprises. smes account for 70% of total employment in the union by creating jobs. they have a significant impact on the european economy. i believe that it should be the endeavour and the interest of responsible politicians to look for ways of exploiting the dynamics in the sector for the general benefit of the citizens and society of the european union. if the union is to emerge from the crisis successfully, efforts to improve the competitiveness of all european businesses are essential. it is justified to seek to put new ideas into practice and to create the right opportunities and conditions for new businesses to emerge. the natural consequence is therefore to create new jobs, more innovation and higher economic growth for all businesses, whether they are industrial, service or social. i believe that these are the steps that are so necessary and important for europe as a whole.
in writing. − i see the coordination of industrial policies in the member states as an essential need to improve the competitiveness of all european businesses in order to achieve sustainable growth in the context of the europe 2020 strategy. in this context, i welcome the commission's communication on industrial policy, which talks about strengthening competitiveness and identifies areas where progress towards the europe 2020 objectives is essential. if the eu is to reduce unemployment effectively, it must invest in programmes that support it. at local level, the urgent transposition of the late payments directive, which will help businesses' liquidity, the implementation of tax incentives, training and retraining programmes that would encourage people and remove their fear of entrepreneurship could be good employment tools. smes have a huge potential to create jobs and their support will therefore be very effective. at eu level, i welcome the commission's proposal to map support systems in european countries from which the basis for a single european environment can emerge.
in writing. − the eu and the us are each other's main trading partners, with the two economies together accounting for almost half of global economic output and almost a third of global trade flows. they thus represent the strongest economic partnership in the world. however, there is a general feeling that the potential of the transatlantic relationship is far from exhausted. the eu and the us share common values, similar legal systems and high standards of occupational and environmental protection, and it seems appropriate and justified to take advantage of this synergy and close cooperation to ensure the growth and jobs needed by both partners. the moderate increase in global trade over the last three years has contributed significantly to mitigating the negative effects of the economic crisis, in particular in the union and the united states, demonstrating that trade plays an important role in determining growth and employment. i consider it important to continue strengthening transatlantic economic relations. at the same time, i believe that close cooperation between the european parliament, the council, the commission, the us congress, the us government and stakeholders is in order to achieve full economic potential, to create new opportunities for businesses and workers on both sides of the atlantic and to strengthen the leadership of the eu and the us in the global economy.
in writing. − at last year's summit, the leaders of the european union and the united states set up a working group to increase job creation, economic growth and mutual competitiveness. the united states and the european union have among the most open economic relations in the world. our markets are firmly linked through significant trade and investment flows with a bilateral trade volume of eur 702.6 billion and bilateral investment stocks of eur 2 394 billion last year. despite these positive results, it is widely recognised that the potential of transatlantic relations is far from exhausted. moreover, the european union and the united states share common values, similar legal systems, and high standards of protection for workers and the environment. it is necessary to make the most of these synergies to ensure growth and jobs and set targets, which both partners desperately need in times of crisis.
for the efd group. according to the opinion of the european data protection supervisor, as well as judgments of the constitutional courts of germany, the czech republic and romania, directive 2006/24, which ordered telecommunications companies to retain identifying data on the sender, recipient, place and time of a telephone call or email for the purpose of possible investigation and prosecution of criminal offences for a period of 6 months to 2 years, does not meet the requirements set out in european privacy and data protection law. therefore, commissioner, a responsible decision must be taken, either to repeal the directive and leave it to the member states to deal with this agenda, or, if there is agreement that common union rules are needed in terms of police and judicial cooperation in such criminal matters, to prepare a new legal framework which should then correspond to the culture of today's european legislation. since april last year, i think, there has been enough time for you to make a responsible and serious decision on this matter.
i am aware that japan, despite its technological and economic advancement, is not very welcoming of opening up its trade space. nevertheless, we must continue our efforts to expand bilateral trade agreements, especially with economically advanced countries where trade is mutually beneficial. i am convinced that a balanced free trade agreement can bring economic benefits to both our producers and the japanese side. i therefore welcome the agreement reached on the content of the open negotiations and can only hope that the japanese side will also be interested in making progress on sensitive issues such as regulatory barriers in the automotive industry or rail transport. our position should be clear. the european union, like japan, needs new and effective impulses to support its economy, and well-organised open trade relations are the best way to do this.
the committee on industry, research and energy has adopted an opinion on the proposal for a council regulation (ec) amending regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 on the common organisation of the market in milk and milk products. - my dear officer. congratulations on the regina bastos report, it was a great report. twenty years ago, the single market was intended to create an open, borderless area in which people, goods, services and capital could move freely. today, this market covers more than 500 million consumers in the union. unfortunately, experience shows that there are discrepancies between expectations and the actual situation. urgent action is needed at national and union level to remove obstacles to investment in energy infrastructure. the next multiannual financial framework should provide sufficient resources to finance energy efficiency measures. in my view, a legal framework is needed to encourage and involve energy suppliers in the implementation of energy efficiency measures. enhancing the vitality and efficiency of the single market, which generates almost €11 billion in economic activity, is essential if europe is to grow, improve employment and regain consumer confidence.
twenty years into the construction of the union's single market is a good opportunity to take stock of what we have achieved from our original plans and what is not working as we would like. there is no doubt that large retail chains and multinational companies are already benefiting from this bold european project. on the other hand, in the area of free movement of labour, we are still failing to create the conditions for our citizens to have equal access to work anywhere in the union. the european labour market is clearly not able to absorb the large numbers of our citizens seeking work and coming from crisis-affected areas. we must therefore, commissioner, continue to improve the mechanisms shaping the conditions for the functioning of the single market and strive to improve the conditions for the mobility of workers, tradespeople and small businesses.
in writing. the single market is a product of its time. if citizens and businesses are worried, it is only because of a lack of information. i therefore agree with the call to the commission to use all technical resources to start a dialogue with citizens about the single market. through information campaigns, identifying 20 key concerns, citizens need to be informed about the benefits of the single market, practical and concrete solutions to their everyday problems, as well as their rights, and to be invited to participate in the creation of a competitive, fair and balanced market. particular attention should be paid to strengthening the project of a single point of contact to provide information on business in the member states. i also agree with the call to the commission to ensure that all citizens entitled to obtain a european health insurance card receive this card on request, to harmonise certificates for motor vehicles, but also a modern framework for the recognition of professional qualifications, which would contribute to increasing europe's competitiveness.
the newspapers have recently flooded with headlines about the end of erasmus, causing increasing uncertainty among students and families. today's debate is crucial to reassure european citizens that the european institutions, led by the european parliament, are actively cooperating and that the uncertainty surrounding the future of the european union budget will in no way jeopardise the effectiveness of one of the most successful programmes of the european union, namely erasmus. his example illustrates the challenges and risks of austerity measures that several member states would like to apply to the european union budget. today, by talking about the importance of ensuring adequate funding for erasmus, we are also sending a message that europe is ready to invest in education and training, even in times of crisis, and thus in programmes that are key to its economic and social recovery. we must make every effort to prevent a similar situation from recurring in the future. this is a question of the credibility of the european institutions, and the solution we manage to find will reflect the importance that europe attaches to education, training and mobility in times of crisis. i therefore call on the council of the european union to work with parliament and the commission to achieve a satisfactory solution to the negative balance of payments in the 2012 budget and in particular for the erasmus programme.
rapporteur. − mr president, thank you for giving me this opportunity to make some short remarks, as we have had no preliminary discussion on this topic. the proposed directive is intended to replace the 1995 decision regarding consular protection for eu citizens by diplomatic and consular representations, in view of the legal framework established by the lisbon treaty. article 23 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, on which the proposal is based, provides that every citizen of the european union shall, in the territory of third countries where the member state of which he is a national is not represented, be entitled to protection by the diplomatic and consular authorities of any member state. the proposal covers not only everyday situations, such as loss of a passport or becoming a victim of crime, but also crisis situations where eu citizens might need help. while in relation to everyday situations citizens could seek help at any consulate or embassy of any member state, crisis situations are different. there was almost unanimous agreement in all the committees involved here that no single member state or lead-state should bear the burden of dealing with evacuation or other crisis-related tasks, including assistance to unrepresented eu citizens, so the role of coordination had to be shifted to eu delegations. this proposal is an excellent illustration of the fact that ‘more europe’ does not mean more bureaucracy or more brussels. ‘more europe’ could also mean more help for eu citizens in need, and more protection for citizens unrepresented in third countries who find themselves in precarious or crisis-related situations. finally i would like to thank all the shadow rapporteurs for their efforts and to ask all of you, colleagues, to support this proposal.
i did not take part in the explanation of vote because i wanted to respond to a situation which arose during the vote and that was with mrs schnieber-jastram's report. i would also like to ask all the colleagues who voted against the oral amendment because they were voting in accordance with their conscience. mr cashman has used his speaking time to discredit and shame us, and i think that this parliament speaks very much about human rights, and the right to conscientious objection, to freedom of conscience, is one of the fundamental human rights. that's why i'm so sorry this incident happened.
in writing. − the stabilisation and association agreement between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the republic of serbia, of the other part, was signed in luxembourg on 29 april 2008. the agreement shall enter into force on the first day of the second month following the date on which the parties notify each other of the completion of their respective ratification procedures. at the same time, the interim agreement between the european community and the republic of serbia, signed on the same day in order to allow for the earlier application of the provisions of the stabilisation and association agreement relating to trade and trade-related matters, entered into force on 1 february 2010. i consider it important and necessary to lay down the rules for the application of certain provisions of the interim agreement and the procedures for adopting the detailed rules for its application. since the provisions governing trade and trade-related matters in those agreements are largely identical, this regulation should also apply to the implementation of the stabilisation and association agreement after its entry into force.
in writing. − if you have council directives concerning the placing on the market of seeds, feed, cereals, beet, oilseeds and fibre plants regulate the placing on the internal market of seed of the plant species referred to in those directives. in order to facilitate trade and to respond quickly to a marketing application, those directives provide for the possibility for the council to lay down rules for authorising imports of seed from third countries under the equivalence system. the so-called field inspections continue to provide the same guarantees as those carried out in the member states. therefore, it is appropriate to continue to consider these field inspections as equivalent. as the corresponding decision 2003/17/ec expires on 31 december 2012, i consider it justified to extend the period during which equivalence is recognised under that decision. it appears desirable to extend that period to 10 years.
in writing. − union fishing vessels have equal access to union waters and resources covered by the rules of the common fisheries policy. council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 of 20 december 2002 on the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy provides for a derogation from the equal access rule by allowing member states to restrict fishing in waters within 12 nautical miles of their baselines to certain vessels. the rules in place restricting access to resources within that zone have contributed to conservation by limiting fishing effort in the most sensitive part of union waters. however, the derogation shall expire on 31 december of that year. i think it is appropriate to extend it until a new regulation on the common fisheries policy is adopted.
in writing. − the european union and the republic of moldova are making joint efforts to protect each other's geographical indications in order to improve the conditions of bilateral trade, promote quality in the food chain and stimulate sustainable rural development. the proposal is the result of bilateral negotiations which have had two objectives: firstly, to extend the protection and use of the system of geographical indications and, secondly, to address the source of the threat of misuse of eu geographical indications. similarly, the republic of moldova has an interest in developing and protecting its current geographical indications within the territory of the european union and in strengthening its relations with the union. the agreement provides for the mutual protection of geographical indications protected by the respective contracting parties. i consider it no less important that it duly contributes to the deepening of trade relations between the eu and moldova. for that reason too, it seems to me justified that it should receive the aid in question.
in writing. − hunger and food insecurity are still a global problem. while significant progress has been made on many levels over the past decade, progress is relentlessly slow when it comes to hunger and malnutrition. in 2010, an estimated 925 million people (around 13.6% of the world's population) did not have enough to eat, despite a decline in income poverty in several regions. in developing countries, 98% of the world's undernourished live, 60% of them women. malnutrition is the underlying cause of more than a third of child deaths, an estimated 2.6 million children a year. as a result of long-term malnutrition, millions of children suffer stunted growth, threatening them with impaired cognitive and physical development. the number of people affected by disasters, including those caused by global climate change, is also increasing worldwide. in this context, the european parliament is expected to give its consent to the draft council decision on the conclusion, on behalf of the european union, of the food aid convention (facc). the 2012 mff is fully in line with the eu's ongoing efforts to contribute to alleviating poverty and eradicating hunger in the world. i therefore consider it to be highly justified and appropriate for parliament to give its consent to the agreement.
in writing. − we must continue to treat hunger and food insecurity as a global problem. it is estimated that in 2010, more than 925 million people did not have enough to eat. although some significant progress has been made in recent years, progress is still slow. ninety-eight percent of the world's undernourished people live in developing countries. malnutrition is responsible for more than one third of child deaths. in addition, the number of people affected by disasters worldwide is increasing. the eu must therefore play a leading role in reducing poverty and eradicating hunger. it is clear that there is a continuing need for an international, legally binding framework to define and record commitments to food aid to developing countries. we need long-term solutions, with activities that make it easier to help. by strengthening local production and livelihood activities, we can avoid becoming dependent on aid in the long term. we therefore need to extend the range of products eligible for support to include products that help to protect the maintenance of life. that is why i voted in favour of this proposal. thank you, sir.
in writing. − i welcome the fact that the eu, as one of the main donors of humanitarian aid, has been working with the member states to negotiate the 1999 food aid convention and has been a major driving force towards a modern food aid convention at both eu and international level. the main objective of the food aid convention is to respond in an effective and efficient manner to the food and nutrition needs of the most vulnerable groups of the population. as a general principle, i support food aid only when it is the most effective and appropriate means of meeting the food or nutritional needs of the most vulnerable groups. i expect countries to make a commitment to ensure their food security, to create the conditions for poverty reduction and hunger eradication. we must work for a europe that is not only solidarity-based but also adequately social, and above all, one that ensures that citizens - if they are dependent on food aid - are not in a situation where they receive charity and it is unworthy of them.
in writing. − if you have pursuant to article 23 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union (tfeu), any citizen of the union in the territory of a third country in which the member state of which he is a national is not represented is entitled to protection by the diplomatic or consular authorities of any member state under the same conditions as a national of that state. this principle is also enshrined in article 46 of the charter of fundamental rights. a new legislative instrument is desirable and necessary in order to facilitate eu citizens' access to their rights, including the right to protection in third countries. at the same time, the number of areas affected by the crisis is increasing. for this reason too, i believe that a new, common approach is all the more important. we distinguish between local consular protection in everyday life and protection in crisis situations. building on the lisbon treaty, solidarity between member states must be maintained. therefore, in the day-to-day matters of consular protection, an unrepresented citizen has the right to seek assistance from any diplomatic or consular authority of any member state. for crisis situations, it is proposed that the union delegation be responsible for the coordination and provision of assistance in relation to crisis preparedness and in the event of a crisis.
in writing. − if you have according to the commission, there are gaps between expectations and reality as regards the single market issue. the inconsistencies stem from interlinked shortcomings, including: lack of information citizens often do not know or sufficiently understand their rights, gaps in the application of the law in many areas there is a gap between the eu legal framework and the way in which legislation is applied, a legislative vacuum in certain areas the eu legal framework does not meet the expectations of citizens and businesses. in these circumstances, i believe it is desirable that all the institutions concerned should make appropriate efforts to strengthen cooperation between them on the functioning of the single market, in particular for the benefit of citizens.
in writing. − by letter of 13 july 2012, received on 18 july 2012, the european council consulted the european parliament on the appointment of mr yves mersch as a member of the executive board of the european central bank (ecb) for a term of office of eight years. the ep's committee on economic and monetary affairs then proceeded to examine the credentials of the candidate, then held a hearing during which the candidate made an opening statement and then answered questions put by committee members. however, from the ecb's founding until ms tumpel-gugerell's departure, the members of the ecb's executive board have always been women. in his letter of 19 september, the president of the european parliament, following the meeting of the conference of presidents, also called on the president of the european council to commit himself to ensuring that all the union institutions falling within his remit implement concrete measures to guarantee gender balance. in the end, parliament did not agree with the council's recommendation to appoint yves mersch as a member of the ecb's executive board and called for the recommendation to be withdrawn and for a new one to be submitted.
in writing. − if you have in case c-249/10 p, the european court of justice ruled that the method of sampling provided for in article 17 of council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009 of 30 november 2009 on protection against dumped imports from countries not members of the european community cannot be used for the purpose of establishing entitlement to market economy treatment under article 2 (7) (c) of that regulation. according to the ruling of the european court of justice, the commission would be required to examine all met claims submitted by the cooperating exporters not included in the sample, irrespective of whether the number of cooperating producers is large. however, such a procedure would impose a disproportionate administrative burden on the union investigating authorities. it is therefore appropriate to amend council regulation (ec) no 1225/2009. at the same time, in the interests of legal certainty and the principle of sound administration, it is necessary to ensure that all amendments in question are applied as soon as possible to all new and ongoing investigations.
in writing. − on 18 july 2012, the european commission proposed that member states start negotiations with japan on a bilateral free trade agreement. the negotiations will give priority to the removal of non-tariff trade barriers to access the japanese market, with access to the japanese public procurement market as another of the commitments set. the report supports the opening of free trade negotiations between the european union and japan. the free trade agreement should be comprehensive and ambitious. it should cover and include goods, services, investments, intellectual property rights and public procurement. at the same time, i believe that special attention should be paid to the elimination of non-tariff barriers to trade, as mentioned above.
in writing. − if you have article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union establishes the reduction and, in the long term, the eradication of poverty as the eu's primary objective in the field of development policy, as defined in the european consensus on development. it is important that the union takes account of the objectives of development cooperation in the policies it implements which are likely to have an impact on developing countries. unfortunately, there is a clear mismatch between eu policies on trade, agriculture, fisheries, climate, intellectual property rights, immigration, finance, arms and raw materials. all of this also affects development goals. importantly, policy coherence for development has the potential to contribute to poverty reduction by finding a fundamental synergy between eu policies. the international framework for development cooperation beyond 2015 can make a significant contribution to addressing important development challenges and other global issues and could help to meet the rights and needs of individuals. i believe that it is important to make efforts, inter alia, to ensure transparency in all areas of the issue. because it is the latter that plays a key role in achieving and delivering policy coherence for development.
in writing. − michael cashman publicly blamed members voting against ‘sexual and reproductive health and rights’, following their conscience and the democratic mandate of their constituents. this incident in chamber shows that the right to life of the unborn and freedom of conscience are threatened by the socialist group. srhr has not been defined officially until now. it is misused to promote abortion as a method of population control and family planning in developing countries by euro-ngos. as the san josé articles show, no international instrument can be used to found a human right to abortion. the eu commission is funding srhr, accepting that abortion is funded within shrh programmes with taxpayers’ money. sex-selective abortion is a consequence of the misuse of srhr and indeed a matter of human rights. ‘it’s a girl’ are the three most dangerous words for a female foetus worldwide. sex-selective abortion is not part of women’s rights. following ecj decision c-34/10, any human ovum after fertilisation constitutes a ‘human embryo’ and should therefore be protected against destruction. i abstained at the final vote following my conscience and my mandate. i strongly reject the allegation by michael cashman and deeply regret this incident showing publicly that freedom of conscience is persecuted by the socialist group in the chamber.
a regulation last november gave the european commission new powers to coordinate the budgets and reform plans of the eu's member states. at the same time, this regulation required the member states to send to brussels for examination and approval, in addition to the draft national budget, a number of other documents related to the implementation of economic reforms in their countries. i believe that after the first year of operation of this new instrument for the coordination of the economic policies of the member states, the commission could reassess the scope, structure and nature of the data forwarded by the member states to brussels for verification and approval, so that the essence of the necessary information is not lost as a result of the large amount of disparate and non-transparent data. if the commission is to produce a truly high-quality european macroeconomic plan as a basis for the substantive coordination of budgetary policies, it should have a clear and meaningful structure of information, correctly selected from all 27 member states of the union. i am therefore convinced that simplifying and making the information base of this instrument more transparent would only increase its effectiveness.
to begin with, i would like to express the view that the current structure of a large number of diverse european financial instruments and co-financing programmes is rather opaque to potential users, both public and private. i believe that better coordination and a certain rationalisation of the structure of financial instruments and structural funds would be particularly beneficial to their better use, so that they can be used more effectively within a single integrated complex. financial instruments are designed to support the development activities of different users and therefore should not lack a clear and comprehensive information system on their nature and design so that a potential applicant can learn, in one place and in his mother tongue, about all the possibilities of union financial assistance for his planned activities. finally, if we want small businesses, tradespeople and municipalities to benefit from these instruments, there should be no shortage of a high-quality consultancy and advisory service to help them choose the most efficient combination of financial support for their investment plans.
in writing. over the past almost 20 years, public investment in the eu has been declining, and this trend has deepened since the start of the crisis. small and medium-sized enterprises, but also all those in need of credit, are finding it increasingly difficult to obtain it. innovative financial instruments could therefore be a significant factor and tool for sustainable eu growth. the commission should ensure a better information campaign on new financial instruments at eu level so that all investors have equal access to these resources. furthermore, the initiative to issue european infrastructure bonds with strong added value with direct eu capital participation should be thoroughly assessed. the commission should also make proposals to facilitate the mobilisation of savings that are currently under-used to support medium- and long-term projects that create sustainable growth in the eu.
officer, please. the danube region has undergone significant transformations in recent years and there are several opportunities to address the challenges associated with the area. it can provide a link between the union and its close neighbours, as well as the black sea region, the south caucasus and central asia. the eu strategy for the danube region can also contribute to the achievement of our union objectives. economic development, competitiveness and environmental management leave much to be desired. the interconnections of transport networks need to be modernised and access to information systems needs to be extended. so, with better infrastructure and alternative sources, energy can be made cheaper and safer. a high degree of cooperation is needed to avoid risks and disasters. the danube region, which covers one fifth of the eu's territory, can play a vital role in european life. by exploiting the significant research and innovation opportunities available, the region can also become a leader in the eu in terms of trade and entrepreneurship.
the danube basin offers great opportunities for crossborder cooperation between the countries through which this european river flows. the danube is also a major waterway, allowing goods to be transported from the black sea to germany. shipping is a very economically advantageous mode of transport, particularly suitable for the transport of goods. improving the navigability of the danube by raising and stabilising the water level would allow vessels with higher displacement to navigate deep into the european hinterland. the expansion of the waterway's transport capacity will also generate new jobs along the entire length of the waterway and i therefore think that the commission's initiatives in this area should be supported. however, the emphasis on environmental protection in the expected construction investments must be an integral part of their assessment. the economic and development potential of the danube must therefore be assessed pragmatically, but also with great sensitivity.
in writing. this area includes 14 countries, six of which are eu member states. the well-being of a region that represents one fifth of the eu's territory is inextricably linked to the eu as a whole. many of the problems of the region are borderless and require a common and unified approach. i believe that economic disparities and underinvestment in infrastructure need to be addressed in particular. the fact that the region itself can be particularly strongly affected by migration, climate change and security is also important given its political and geographical characteristics. environmental issues are of particular urgency, in particular because of biodiversity and the protection of cultural heritage. it is important to see the danube strategy as a priority issue and as a solution proposed by the people living in the region for the people living in the region. the four so-called priorities include connecting the danube region, protecting the local environment, building prosperity and strengthening the danube region itself. the strategy was conceived as a second eu macro-regional concept, similar to the strategy for the baltic sea region. i am convinced that this strategy presents an opportunity to implement a long-term programme for the regeneration of the danube region and to make more effective use of the potential of the danube states. through appropriate partnership and cooperation between the countries of the region, it is possible to improve the lives of the population and to increase their social security and cohesion. the promotion of cross-border cooperation and the removal of barriers to bringing together the people and states of the danube region are equally important.
for the efd group. the accession of the russian federation to the world trade organisation (wto) means that in our trade with each other we will henceforth be bound by international multilateral rules and obligations. we should therefore see this change as a welcome impetus to intensify the dialogue on many issues that have so far not been satisfactorily resolved in bilateral negotiations. for example, while respecting wto trade rules, russia can be expected to restrict export and reduce import duties, provide better access to the russian market for foreign service providers and simplify procedures in bilateral economic cooperation. the more significant opening up of the vast russian market to our manufacturers in the engineering, automotive, consumer goods, textile, pharmaceutical and food industries can only help to revive our still stagnant economy. we should not therefore hesitate too long with our initiatives, for surely the americans, the chinese and the japanese are also interested in taking advantage of the new more favourable conditions for mutually beneficial trade cooperation with russia and will seek to establish their companies more firmly on the large russian market. the opportunity to improve trade cooperation is there and it is up to us how effectively we can use it to develop the european economy today.
in 2004, the european union added 10 new members. the accession was preceded by negotiation processes where the priority of the general interest pushed some issues into the background. such was the question raised by the legal residue of the discriminatory benes decrees in czechoslovakia. decrees issued after the war provided the basis for the application of the principle of collective guilt and the shameful ethnic cleansing. it cannot be definitively stated that these decrees are no longer in force today, since in many cases the courts have had to interpret them. i understand that at the time the european union was in good faith not to oppose the accession of the czech republic and slovakia. but it had to face the fact that this unresolved issue, which infringed the rights of eu citizens, would eventually have to be resolved. the eu is at the forefront of human rights protection in the world, including at home. i call on the authorities to examine the legal contradictions that are clouding the realization of a just europe. let all eu citizens, minorities and nations finally feel equal in the union.
madam president, the last election in belarus was another example of the brutal regime of mr lukashenko. international observers noted a number of serious violations. the election took place in an atmosphere of political persecution and repression of the opposition, many of whom are still in prison. strong sanctions and eu support for the opposition must continue. the iihf should relocate the 2014 ice hockey championship to prevent lukashenko’s regime from self-promotion. the iihf is fast losing credibility by collaborating with dangerous individuals who conspired against democracy and their citizens. the communist spy and kgb officer from slovakia, mr široký, and mr lukashenko seem to be protégés of mr fasel and his iihf. such trends must change. the relocation of the championship away from lukashenko’s belarus would be a good start.
president lukashenko stated that the other elections in belarus were as democratic as possible. he's got a point. where it is possible for opposition leaders to be behind bars rather than at the ballot box, where many candidates have not even been able to register freely and freedom of speech has been degraded to a minimum, it can also be said that the elections were as democratic as possible. it is deplorable that the belarusian regime is continuously depriving its own people of their fundamental rights and freedoms and degrading their human rights. such a regime is not a partner for the union. but even more so should those parts of belarusian society that seek to oppose this regime. and in belarus, we have them. the union should therefore invest in and support the future of belarus, which will one day be more democratic than is currently possible.
i would like to express my support and at the same time my sincere admiration for the teenager who has become a symbol of the struggle for the right of muslim women to education. only 14-year-old malala yousafzai, with her opinions and her natural courage, has been able to be a threat to the taliban. the fact that women's rights and the right to education are a concern in some traditional societies is not too surprising. but what is absolutely astounding is that these companies can go to such extremes to try to silence 14-year-olds who are calling for the right to education with guns. but i think it also shows the weakness of the taliban and those who are trying to suppress these rights in such drastic ways.
mr president, the latest intimidation of human rights defenders and the interests of big investors and the ruling political is taking over human rights and political freedoms in cambodia. recently a prominent critic of the government, mom sonando, and other activists were sentenced to 20 years in prison. it is clear that this and many other convictions and trials are purely politically motivated. it is our duty to voice concern on the human rights situation in cambodia and to insist on the release of the government’s critics. for the eu, as one of the biggest donors in cambodia, the current human rights situation should serve as a wake-up call, especially in the light of the upcoming east asia summit, which should take place in november in that country.
in writing. − the energy star programme, created by the united states environmental protection agency (epa), aims to increase the energy efficiency of office equipment. in 2000, the eu and the us signed an agreement on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment. the agreement in question, which was renewed in 2006 for a second five-year period, provides for the establishment of the energy star programme in the eu. under the agreement, the epa and the commission jointly manage the programme and it includes cooperation on the development of product specifications and mutual recognition of products registered in the eu and the us. before the current agreement expired in december 2011, the council authorised the commission to negotiate a new agreement to ensure the continuation of the energy star programme for a third five-year period. these negotiations were concluded in november 2011. it is justified for parliament to give its consent to the new agreement.
in writing. − if you have since the beginning of 2000, the union institutions have developed a number of innovative financial instruments (ifis) which are based on mechanisms combining complementary grants from the union budget and public and/or private funds in order to increase the volume of available investments to meet the union's strategic objectives. the ultimate objective of financial instruments and their justification are of great importance in the event of market failure or sub-optimal investments in their catalytic effect, which allows on the basis of a contribution from the union budget to mobilise public and/or private funds for projects for which the market is not functioning as it should or is not functioning sufficiently. the nfcs developed so far have covered a wide variety of types of aid, from risk capital participation, risk-sharing instruments with financial institutions to stimulate investment, innovation and research, to guarantee and counter-guarantee mechanisms for financial intermediaries. given the diversity of the areas financed, this diversity is justified. at the same time, i agree that it is the establishment of the ifn under the auspices of the union that will contribute to the use of funds for the benefit of the real economy for projects with european added value.
in writing. − on 22 may 2012, the european ombudsman presented the annual report for 2011 to the president of the european parliament, mr martin schulz. the ombudsman registered 2 510 complaints in 2011, compared with 2 667 complaints in 2010. of the total of 2 544 complaints, 698 (27%) were dealt with under its mandate. the number of complaints over the past nine years has been increasing. in 2011, the ombudsman adapted the procedures to make them more understandable to citizens. this explains why a higher number of investigations were opened in 2010 and why it took on average a little longer to close the investigations in 2011. this adjustment also meant that the ombudsman closed fewer cases marked 'solved by the institution' than in 2010, while closing a greater number of cases marked 'further investigation is not warranted'. as regards cooperation, the european ombudsman works closely with his partners in the member states. this cooperation takes place within the european network of ombudsmen, which consists of 90 offices in 32 european countries. it includes national and regional ombudsmen and similar bodies of the member states of the european union, eu candidate countries and other countries of the european economic area or the schengen area, as well as the european ombudsman and the committee on petitions of the european parliament.
in writing. − the markets in financial instruments directive (mifid), which has been in force since november 2007, is the main pillar of financial market integration in the eu. the fundamental objective is to deepen the integration, competitiveness and efficiency of eu financial markets. in particular, the possibility for member states to require that all trading in financial instruments take place on traditional exchanges has been removed, allowing for pan-european competition between these exchanges and alternative trading venues. banks and investment firms have been given stronger 'authorisation' to provide investment services within the eu, as long as they comply with organisational and reporting requirements as well as comprehensive rules designed to ensure investor protection. however, it is also true that the more competitive scene has led to new challenges. the benefits of stronger competition have not been equally shared by all market participants and have not always been passed on to the final retail or non-retail investors. in conclusion, although the comprehensive rules of mifid have largely proven themselves in the context of the financial crisis, there is a need for targeted but ambitious improvements. i believe that the revision of mifid is an integral part of the reforms aimed at creating a safer, more reliable, more transparent and more accountable financial system that works for the benefit of the economy and society as a whole in the period marked by the consequences of the financial crisis.
in writing. − the financial crisis has revealed shortcomings in the transparency of financial markets. enhancing transparency is therefore one of the common principles for strengthening the financial system, as endorsed in the g20 london declaration of 2 april 2009. in order to enhance transparency and improve the functioning of the internal market in financial instruments, a new framework setting out uniform requirements for the transparency of transactions in markets in financial instruments should be introduced. it should lay down comprehensive rules for the whole range of financial instruments. the group on eu financial supervision, chaired by jacques de larosière, called on the union to develop a more harmonised set of financial rules. the european council of june 2009 also underlined the need to create a single set of european rules applicable to all financial institutions in the single market within the framework of the future european supervisory architecture. the new legislation should therefore consist of two distinct legal instruments, a directive and this regulation. i believe that both instruments should together form a legal framework governing the requirements applicable to investment firms, regulated markets and reporting services providers. this directly applicable legal act aims to contribute decisively to the smooth functioning of the internal market. the commission therefore considers that the measure is imputable to the state and that it is imputable to the state.
in writing. − the economic, social and financial crisis and the sovereign debt crisis have not yet abated. the current economic situation has shown that greater coordination of member states' macroeconomic and budgetary policies is needed to achieve a more integrated and balanced economic union. the crisis and the growing competitiveness gap since the introduction of the euro have highlighted the need to strengthen the coordination of economic and employment policies and to improve budgetary procedures. the european council has made a strong commitment to mobilise all incentives, tools and policies at every level of government in the eu to revive smart, sustainable, inclusive growth that is resource-efficient and job-creating. all proposed measures in this area should contribute to achieving sound and sustainable public finances, minimising macroeconomic imbalances and reviving competitiveness, which can help and lead to higher growth and employment. i believe that there is a need to strengthen own coherence within and between recommendations for individual member states, to make better use of the macroeconomic scoreboard and also to take into account the negative effects of individual member states' economic policies.
in writing. − on 10 november 2011, the russian federation concluded multilateral negotiations on wto accession after 18 years of negotiations and was officially admitted as a member on 16 december 2011. the eu is a strategic trading partner of russia, considered to be the most important and growing source of imports, the main destination for exports and a key investment partner (in terms of foreign direct investment), accounting for 47,1% of russia's total trade. this relationship is still developing, with russia becoming the eu's second source of imports (eur 158.6 billion) and its fourth destination of exports (eur 86.1 billion) according to available data for 2010 . on the other hand, it is important to note that immediately before russia completed its accession to the wto, it did not act fully in the spirit of its future wto obligations. i consider it justified for the russian side to remove unjustified temporary bans, unilateral temporary tariff increases and protectionist measures and barriers to open and fair trade which have caused significant damage to eu exporters. provided that the commitments set out are mutually respected, russia's accession to the multilateral trading system and its rules will undoubtedly represent a further step in improving bilateral relations between the eu and russia.
in writing. − to date, none of the parliamentary or presidential elections held in belarus since 1995 have been recognised as free and fair by the osce. according to the osce/odihr international election observation mission and the osce parliamentary assembly, many osce commitments, including the rights of citizens to associate, to be elected and to express themselves, were not respected in the context of the 23 september parliamentary elections, despite some improvements to the electoral law. in addition, international election observers were not properly allowed to monitor the vote counting and the election process was negatively assessed in a large number of polling stations. independent international observers have reported that serious violations of standards have occurred during the elections and, due to the non-transparent counting of votes, the election results cannot be said to be a true expression of the will of the belarusian people. the undemocratic nature of the parliamentary election process in belarus is deplorable. moreover, in my view, this negative assessment of the parliamentary elections will again prevent the european parliament from establishing official relations with the belarusian parliament. at the same time, the euronest parliamentary assembly would have no reason in this situation to invite official representatives of the belarusian legislature to take their seats in the assembly, thus depriving the eastern partnership of one of the important means of bringing belarus closer to the democratic values of the eu.
in writing. − georgia's active engagement and commitment to shared values and principles, including democracy, the rule of law, good governance and respect for human rights, are essential for progress in the european integration process, as well as for the successful conclusion of the negotiations and the subsequent implementation of the association agreement. the georgian authorities invited a large number of international observers to observe the electoral process. they assessed that the parliamentary elections held on 1 october had been conducted in accordance with the commitments under the osce and the council of europe. as an important eu partner, georgia has thus demonstrated a strong commitment to democratic standards during these parliamentary elections. the european parliament confirmed that the european union supports the sovereignty and territorial integrity of georgia.
for the efd group. while i very much appreciate the commission's efforts to build up proper mechanisms in the european union for the settlement of crossborder disputes in civil and commercial matters, i do not think that the proposal put forward is taking the issue in the right direction. the legal systems of the member states have evolved over the centuries and the way written law is applied has also been shaped by different civilizational and cultural traditions. the experience of court decisions, for example in spain, which wanted to take a child living in slovakia away from his mother, or court decisions from the united kingdom that cover up the dubious practices of the local social system in taking children away from families who came to work in the united kingdom, shows us that purposeful court decisions in favour of the interests of citizens or legal entities from their countries are a daily reality in the european union. to propose, in such a state of justice, the abolition of certain safeguards, such as the right to challenge the recognition or enforcement of a judgment on the ground of incompatibility with the public policy of the state in which the judgment is to be recognised or enforced, seems to me to be completely detached from reality. if we have different ways of looking at legal issues in the different countries of the european union, we cannot just transfer court decisions from one country to another. a person against whom a judgment has been given abroad must, after all, be entitled to assess the enforcement of that judgment also in the light of the law of the country in which he resides or is established. ( the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you for your concern, but i am not personally on your committee, i am on the itre committee, so i cannot take part in this work. but i'd love to share my experience with you, and maybe if you accept my views, we can work together in the future.
in order to gradually create a genuine area of justice, it is necessary to adopt measures in the field of judicial cooperation which have cross-border implications. however, certain differences in the national legal rules governing jurisdiction and the recognition of judgments still prevent this. the examples of citizens, whether from slovakia or from other countries, have been mentioned above, and it is precisely to avoid such things that we need provisions to harmonise the rules on conflict of jurisdiction in civil and commercial matters, in order to ensure the rapid and simple recognition and enforcement of judgments given in a particular member state. the brussels i regulation is therefore also of particular importance to the citizens of the european union and to european businesses. although it is applied to a partially satisfactory extent, some of its provisions need to be amended. i am clearly in favour of, for example, the abolition of the enforceability clause, as our aim is to facilitate the free movement of judgments and to improve access to justice for our citizens. we need to improve the regulation overall to ensure predictability and a high level of legal certainty. in any event, our priority must be to protect the weaker party, the right to a fair trial and a clear reference to the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
the commission adopted an action plan to improve the safety of explosives as early as 2008. it also set up a so-called standing committee on precursors. it identified various explosives precursors that could be used to commit terrorist attacks and also recommended appropriate measures at european union level. some member states have therefore adopted laws, regulations and administrative provisions concerning the placing on the market, making available and possession of certain chemicals and mixtures which can also be used as explosives precursors. however, these differ from each other and may thus constitute certain obstacles to trade within the european union. that is why we must harmonize the rules. this will eliminate distortions of competition, facilitate the free movement of chemicals, while ensuring a high level of protection and safety for the general public. the commission proposal should prevent the general public from having access to specific substances which, although commonly used, can be misused as precursors to explosives. restricting public access to legitimate substances is also intended to reduce the frequency and impact of terrorist attacks. however, i think it is necessary to stress that it is essential that we also preserve the right of individuals to privacy in all cases. moreover, this regulation must be flexible enough to respond quickly to changing needs. in particular, a good system of exchange of information between manufacturers and dealers is essential in this regard. codes of conduct and voluntary agreements could also help. such means would greatly promote the good functioning of the regulation.
slovakia is preparing to issue a commemorative coin depicting saints constantine and methodius, christian missionaries who brought our ancestors the first scripture and the faith 1,150 years ago. however, after intervention by european institutions, the national bank of slovakia decided to remove the crosses and the candlesticks from the artwork. the attempt to remove all that is christian from public life has also been reflected in the attacks by members of this parliament on the commissioner-designate, tonia borg, for his personal values as a christian believer. the questioning of europe's christian heritage is detrimental to european integration and the exclusion of christians from public life is a violation of the freedom of thought, conscience and religion guaranteed by the european charter of human rights.
the last few years have been marked by the devastating effects of the economic and financial crisis in the member states of the european union, which have had a particularly devastating impact on society. what citizens are still hearing from politicians is about savings measures, including in national budgets, within national budgets or our common european budget. allocation of funds for the rescue of the banking sector, funds for the rescue of financial institutions or contribution to the european financial and stability fund for the assistance of indebted countries. yet, little or nothing is said to the citizens about solutions to their desperate social situation. even today, in the member states of the european union, especially in a large part of those that joined the european union in 2004, more and more people are falling below the poverty line. wages in our countries are not comparable to those in more advanced economies, and therefore i think that we should also start talking more at the level of the european parliament, the european commission and the council about the difficult social situation of our fellow citizens and look for solutions for this sensitive area as well.
in my speech, i want to express my full support for the right of every citizen of the european union to petition the european parliament. the petition may take the form of a complaint or a request on matters falling within the competence of the european union. this right should not be abused, as was the case when a petition was received requesting the annulment of resolution 1487 of 2007 of the national council of the slovak republic on the inviolability of the beneš decrees. the applicant relied on a non-existent resolution on the basis of which it requested that the membership of the slovak republic in the european union be suspended. the petition was formally admissible but, in substance, it should have been considered unfounded, since it referred to a non-existent resolution. since this was not the case and the petition was discussed in committee, it was useless to occupy the committee, the commission and then the committee. attempts to abuse the right to petition will certainly continue in the future, and the competent authorities must therefore tighten up the examination of petitions before the committee asks the commission for an opinion.
the commission's green paper on an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments highlights several obstacles that prevent the european payments market from functioning in the most efficient and open way possible. the european market for this type of payment is fragmented, both nationally and across borders. standardisation in this area should focus on the definition of security standards and should include the measures necessary to ensure a more open, transparent, innovative and competitive electronic payment market that benefits all consumers. moreover, the existence of a neutral and secure single european market for such payments, which would facilitate free competition and innovation, is essential for achieving a genuine digital single market. in addition, electronic payments play an important role in the fight against the grey economy and tax evasion. the european union's single legal framework in this area must therefore focus in particular on a high level of consumer protection.
shadow banking as such is carried out through an entity or financial contracts that create a combination of functions similar to those of banks, but outside the regulatory framework or under a regime that is either insufficiently consistent or addresses issues other than systemic risks. regulated entities in the standard banking system engage in activities defined as part of the shadow banking system and are linked to shadow banking entities in many ways. the global shadow banking system was estimated to be worth around eur 51 trillion in 2011. this represents up to 30% of the total financial system and half of the total bank assets. moreover, shadow banking has been identified as one of the possible main causes and circumstances that contributed to the financial crisis and a factor that threatens the stability of the entire financial system. that's why we need complete oversight of shadow banking.
the digital world offers new broad possibilities for communication and is naturally open to children and young people. young children are seen working on their parents' computers at home, and older children are offered supplementary training or online education by better equipped schools. children have the opportunity to meet and communicate with peers not only in their own city but virtually all over the world. the internet culture of the younger generation is inescapable. therefore, we must strive to shape the rules of operation of internet portals in such a way that the virtual world our children enter is civilized, decent, interesting, entertaining and stimulating. if we don't give up on an active approach to modelling the digital world and if we can eliminate risks from sources that are difficult to control, we can give the next generation an effective and rich tool for developing their personalities.
let me try to get a more specific number: 77 percent of 15 to 16-year-olds are registered on some social network. 16 of them have a fictitious identity and 27% of 9 to 12 year olds report being older than their real age. children are also considered to be inexperienced and vulnerable users by these numbers, and they face the huge risks that have already been mentioned here, whether it's the misuse of personal data, the use of their profiles for commercial purposes, and many more. 12% of children aged 9 to 12 report that they have been harassed mainly in the form of online bullying. children face real dangers in the online world and in online environments, and we need to respond appropriately, through comprehensive regulation of legal, technical and educational means, including effective prevention. it is also necessary to ensure the continuation of the programme that is working for this area and, in any case, to ensure that responsibility for ... (interruption of the member's speech)
in writing. european children spend one and a half hours a day on the internet, with teenagers aged 15-16 years up to 2 hours a day. i see modern information and communication technologies as a clear contribution to society, and the development of ict in recent years has opened up possibilities that previous generations could not even dream of. although progress in every industry has many pitfalls and risks, internet services are no exception. but we must be careful about distinguishing the contents. there's a difference between illegal and inappropriate content, inappropriate content doesn't have to be illegal, and legal doesn't have to be appropriate. the greatest danger on the internet is in communication between individual users, where a high degree of anonymity can lead to dangerous individuals. these problems are not just a threat to children and young people, but to all users. i therefore support the proposal by mrs silvia costa, who points to the introduction of safety education in the use of icts and exposure to potentially risky content.
while the current consumer credit directive has created a common european legal framework for consumer protection, legal and factual obstacles persist, as reflected in particular by the lack of adequate information for consumers on the possibilities of cross-border consumer credit and on the rights of consumers when concluding such contracts. however, adequate consumer protection practices in the credit sector play an important role in ensuring financial stability. improving the cross-border consumer credit market would also significantly support the internal market. financial institutions must be required to provide consumers with personalised, complete and easily understandable information on the risks associated with the provision of credit. this information should ideally be included in consumer credit advertisements, pre-contractual information and consumer credit agreements. a high level of consumer protection in this area is absolutely crucial in order to improve financial integration by increasing consumption and supporting growth.
social economy enterprises providing services in the public interest represent 10% of all european enterprises and employ at least 11 million people in the european union. however, support for social enterprises through funding at local, regional and national level must reflect the economic viability of the enterprise concerned, since it is undesirable for the survival of the enterprise to depend exclusively on subsidies and to be at risk of being completely destroyed once the granting of these subsidies has ceased. if a company is not capable of surviving, then it is necessary to consider whether such a type should even be created. in this context, we should consider introducing financial support, preceded by an analysis of the efficiency and social return of the investment, in order to increase the transparency of the investment market. however, many enterprises face a lack of clear information on the possibilities of such financing and access to this information is complicated. i'm gonna have to cut this short, so we can have clearer, but simpler rules.
simplifying the rules for the approval and operation of small motor vehicles, tricycles, motorcycles or mopeds will certainly be good news for users of these means of transport, as long as it does not complicate the use of their equipment. however, manufacturers and retailers will likely have more serious concerns about the new safety and environmental measures. the mandatory introduction of anti-lock braking systems for this category of vehicles will certainly also translate into higher product prices. equally, stricter emission requirements will force manufacturers to modernise their production more significantly and to raise the prices of these vehicles further. hopefully, greater user safety and a better relationship with the environment will be adequate compensation for the higher prices imposed by the new european legislation. let us hope that our citizens will understand this.
in writing. rising unemployment, uncertainty in the banking sector, high interest rates on loans for some countries, difficult access to resources, declining investment, lack of competitiveness, risk of poverty, ... these are problems that europe cannot solve unless it is closely linked in a genuine monetary and economic union. the single currency can only be sustainable and stable if the member states are willing to devolve powers in the field of fiscal policies to the union. we need to create a permanent framework in which, if countries have problems, they can rely on support based on the solidarity of other countries. on the other hand, each member state must be responsible for its financial stability and for its responsible fiscal behaviour. it is therefore essential that the commission, in cooperation with the council and the european parliament, submit by the end of the year a proposal for concrete steps and measures to achieve genuine economic and monetary union.
slovakia has a very poor experience in the past with the implementation of social investments. social enterprises have become synonymous with the waste of public funds due to their high cost, opaque allocation of subsidies and unclear outcome. we are all concerned about the high unemployment rate, especially among young people. but that doesn't mean we should start spending billions of dollars to give people jobs that don't matter. and if they do, it's only because they're going to be competing with the existing businesses in terms of price. such labour market distortions do not solve problems, they create them. the state cannot judge which business intention is good and which is not. we learned that during communism.
card, internet and mobile payments, that's what i want to say. technical progress is opening up new possibilities in the internal market. the gradual replacement of card payment systems by other electronic and mobile payment methods has a huge potential to increase not only the volume but also the diversity of electronic commerce in the european union. the smooth functioning of the modern digital economy and cross-border e-commerce, and in particular the legal certainty of consumers and traders, require the establishment of secure and efficient payment systems within the european digital market. in my view, the emphasis should be on common safety standards, while standardisation should not hinder competition and the development of innovation. on the contrary, the european commission should focus its efforts on increasing competition in the digital and card payments markets, which are so far dominated by two non-european card payment service providers.
as our children spend more and more time online, the role of the internet in many cases is more important than that of the family and school. in addition to schoolwork, young people are taking advantage of other opportunities offered by the internet. many members of a social network provide personal information on their profile. since internet use is often done independently and without supervision, children face various risks, including data breaches, health risks and addiction. it's up to the family, the educational institutions, first and foremost, to prepare children to use digital technologies critically. in order to tackle inappropriate content, i support the development of strategies and standards by member states to protect children from content that is inappropriate for their age. i agree that the safer internet programme must be guaranteed and that children must be protected from online crime. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
the expansion of children's and adolescents' access to the internet places higher demands on education in responsibility, especially on the part of parents. the way to improve the protection of children on the internet is therefore primarily through informing parents and teachers. in the field of prevention of juvenile delinquency, we have good experience in slovakia with the programme 'do you know what your child is doing now?' this programme aims to increase the sensitivity of parents to the risks to which their child is exposed. i support the extension of the scope of similar programmes to the internet. but i also reject the idea that the state should take responsibility for the education of children away from the parents. efforts should focus on media literacy so that children and young people, with the help of parents and teachers, take responsibility for their actions on the internet and develop their e-skills.
the sensitive psyche of children at an early age faces many negative influences from external digital media and especially from the internet. often, even in innocent surfing, more than one third of children are exposed to the most inappropriate and developmentally harmful material of a sexual or violent nature, and are also exposed to bullying. as a doctor, i am convinced that such high risks and harmful influences faced by children on the internet must be effectively prevented by an appropriate combination of legal, technical and educational measures. but the best medicine is adequate prevention, and that is why we need to educate minors so that they can protect themselves from threats and not become easy victims of online predators such as rapists and pedophiles. including media education for parents and also teachers in primary and other schools through special seminars would certainly help in this regard.
demographic changes towards an ageing society are increasing the demand for social services, especially in the areas of health and care. social enterprises now employ more than 11 million people in the eu. their innovation potential contributes to the creation of new jobs in various employment sectors such as health, care, education and training, culture or tourism. they can help vulnerable groups to integrate into the labour market. in order to develop a social enterprise rapidly, it needs above all committed people and additional financial resources. these funding opportunities should be made known and more accessible to young entrepreneurs. financial support for social enterprises not only contributes to job creation but also gives meaning to the lives of many people within these activities. i support the commission's proposal and voted in favour of the report.
i strongly support the social dimension of entrepreneurship as the ability and willingness of businesses and entrepreneurs to get involved in helping those in need. however, if we speak of social enterprises as those that are not aimed at making a profit but at achieving measurable positive social impacts, as the report states, it is no longer a business, it is a social activity. we should therefore not look for new ways to artificially encourage such activity and make it competitive with for-profit enterprises. we should aim to support this activity by simplifying legislation, increasing social recognition or reducing the tax burden.
this parliament has long been convinced of the need to transform the european union into a federation as soon as possible. although i too represent citizens who are aware of the enormous benefits of european integration, many of the demands in the report i have presented raise concerns. i did not support this report because it seems to me that this parliament is trying to avoid natural developments at all costs by exploiting the threat of the ongoing economic crisis. the considerations of a common fiscal policy, a banking union, etc. are based on the assumption that the citizens of the member states feel solidarity with each other. such solidarity, however, exists only when people share common values. but as everyday experience shows us, the debate on common european values is far from over. at least until the discrimination and intolerance against christians is over.
in writing. − on 21 april 2009, the commission adopted a report on the application of council regulation (ec) no 44/2001 of 22 december 2000 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in civil and commercial matters. the report concluded that the regulation is generally applied satisfactorily, but that it is nevertheless desirable to improve the application of some of its provisions, to further facilitate the free movement of judgments and to improve access to justice. since a number of amendments are to be made, this regulation should be recast in the interests of clarity. the union has set itself the objective of maintaining and developing an area of freedom, security and justice, inter alia, by facilitating access to justice, in particular through the principle of mutual recognition of judicial and extrajudicial decisions in civil matters. in order to gradually establish such an area, the union needs to adopt measures in the field of judicial cooperation in civil matters having cross-border implications, in particular where they are necessary for the proper functioning of the internal market. in order to achieve the objective of free movement of judgments in civil and commercial matters, it is necessary and appropriate that the rules governing jurisdiction, recognition and enforcement of judgments be governed by a legal act of the union which is binding and directly applicable. the regulation is one of the most successful pieces of eu legislation and its recast is of considerable importance.
in writing. − the action plan to enhance the safety of explosives adopted by the council in april 2008 called on the commission to set up a standing committee on precursors to assess measures and make recommendations on the regulation of explosives precursors available on the market in terms of cost and benefit. the committee subsequently identified various explosives precursors that could be used to commit terrorist attacks and recommended appropriate action at union level. some member states have already adopted corresponding laws, regulations and administrative provisions. however, they differ from one member state to another, which may constitute barriers to trade within the european union. for this reason, i consider it justified to harmonise them in order to guarantee the free movement of chemicals and mixtures in the internal market while ensuring a high level of protection of the health and safety of the general public. since the objectives of this regulation, namely to limit the access of the general public to chemicals which can be used for the domestic production of explosives, cannot be sufficiently achieved by the member states and can therefore, by reason of the scale of the action, be better achieved at union level, the european union may adopt measures, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity. in accordance with the principle of proportionality, this regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve those objectives.
in writing. − if you have in view of the accession of croatia to the european union on 1 july 2013, specific temporary measures should be adopted, which are distinct from the staff regulations of officials of the european union and the conditions of employment of other servants of the european union. given the relative size of the acceding country and the number of persons potentially affected by this process, these measures, even if temporary, should remain in force for a sufficiently long period. the commission has not received any comments from interested parties. in my view, given the need to implement the planned recruitment of workers as soon as possible after accession, this regulation should be adopted before the actual date of accession, or at the latest when croatia accedes to the european union. otherwise, the filling of linguistic positions would be particularly at risk, which would undermine the ability of the institutions to work in croatian, which would become one of the official languages.
in writing. − on 27 october 2011, the commission published a proposal for a council decision on the consent of the european union to the accession of the european union to the protocol for the protection of the mediterranean sea against pollution caused by exploration and exploitation of the continental shelf and the seabed and its subsoil (the 'coastal protocol'). recent accidents, in particular the deepwater horizon oil spill in the gulf of mexico in 2010, have strongly demonstrated the need to increase the safety of offshore oil and gas operations. in particular, a policy of sustainable management of offshore oil and gas activities appears to be needed. at eu level, the commission's proposal on safety of offshore oil and gas exploration, development and production activities, currently under discussion, is a planned response to this situation. in fact, the european parliament has already expressed its position in its resolution of 13 september 2011 on safety issues in offshore oil and gas exploration and production, in which it stressed the importance of the full entry into force of the still unratified 1994 protocol on the coasts of the mediterranean aimed at protecting against pollution caused by exploration and exploitation.
in writing. − greenland originally joined the european community (ec) in 1973 as part of denmark, but left the ec following a referendum in 1985. it is now one of the overseas countries and territories of the union within the meaning of article 355 (2) tfeu. greenland's economy is heavily dependent on fishing and exports of fishery products to the eu. the first fisheries partnership agreement with greenland was concluded after greenland's withdrawal from the ec in 1985, on the basis that the community could retain its original fishing rights after paying an annual financial contribution. the dpr between the eu and the former local government of greenland was adopted on 28 june 2007 with the current protocol setting out the annual fishing opportunities and financial contributions until 31 december 2012. the european commission, on the basis of a mandate from the council of 19 july 2011, has been negotiating with the government of greenland with a view to renewing the protocol due to the expiry of the current protocol on 31 december 2012. on the basis of those negotiations, a new protocol was initialled on 3 february 2012 for a period of three years from 1 january 2013. i am of the opinion that the fisheries partnership agreement with greenland is in line with the objectives of the common fisheries policy and the principles of sustainable fisheries and is of considerable benefit to both parties.
in writing. − the commission's report on the application of council directive 93/109/ec laying down detailed rules for the exercise of the right to vote and to stand as a candidate in elections to the european parliament for citizens of the union residing in a member state of which they are not nationals in 2004 has shown that certain provisions of that directive need to be amended. the directive provides that no person may vote and be elected in more than one member state more than once in the same election. difficulties which threaten the functioning and effectiveness of the exchange of information cannot be solved by harmonising the rules on registration in the national electoral registers alone. such a solution would not be proportionate to the objective pursued. for this reason too, i think it appropriate to abolish the exchange of information but to maintain the obligation to submit a declaration in which the voter or candidate undertakes to exercise his right to vote or to stand as a candidate only in the member state of residence. a routine check of all votes and nominations would be inadequate in view of the problems identified and would be difficult to implement. member states should therefore focus their checks only on situations where there is an increased likelihood of nationals voting and being elected more than once.
in writing. −the consumer credit directive has two objectives: a high level of consumer protection and the strengthening of the crossborder internal market in consumer credit. there is no doubt that the final harmonisation of some essential elements of the credit legislation has significantly increased the level of consumer protection in europe. however, some member states have not yet transposed all or some of the provisions of the directive within the deadline. the main reasons were the relatively short, two-year, timeframe and the large scope of the legislation. in a wide range of areas, including consumer protection, general credit rules and access to databases, many provisions have had to be changed or new provisions have had to be introduced. these procedures are very complex and concern both national legislatures and financial institutions. i think it would be appropriate to allocate more time in the future and set the transposition deadline at three years. i also believe that the commission should now review the transposition of the directive and urge the member states to apply it correctly. in due course, a thorough evaluation of the legal and substantive impact of the directive should be carried out and, subsequently, consideration should be given to the need to develop possible amendments.
in writing. − in my country, when the additional tax on banks was introduced, bank analysts and bank officials said that they had a planned profit, which if jeopardised would increase bank charges and again be overpaid by clients. therefore, in the context of free trade and services, i welcome the possibility of cross-border consumer credit. the consumer credit directive creates not only a common european legal framework but also competitiveness in total cost of credit. our banks, which were privatized debt-free, without any obligations with high-tribal packages, now offer consumer and mortgage loans 25% more expensive than, for example, banks in italy. therefore, in the context of competition in cross-border consumer credit, i see a great contribution of this directive to strengthening the internal market in cross-border consumer credit and i expect the establishment of such legal and technical arrangements to create such a standard form that would allow the consumer to reliably compare loans from different providers. i expect that a thorough evaluation of the directive from a legal and factual point of view will now follow and that there will be an urgent call for the member states to apply it correctly.
in writing. − the current economic and financial crisis will undoubtedly have a far-reaching impact on the european economy, employment rates, public savings and social investment in europe. most current and recent responses to the crisis are based on short-term objectives aimed in particular at restoring the sustainability of public finances, which are essential for the eu economy. the result of the economic and social crisis is that the unemployment rate in the countries. one of the consequences of the economic and social crisis is increased pressure on social assistance systems in many countries and substantial reductions in revenues for pension, employment or health care systems. most current crisis-response measures lack a social and employment policy dimension. the first attempt to create a coordinated eu response to the issue, the lisbon strategy together with the european employment strategy, has failed for lack of governance and, unfortunately, the success of the europe 2020 strategy seems uncertain and requires greater efforts by member states. i share the view that the recently established economic governance and macroeconomic surveillance should be linked to the monitoring of employment and social affairs policies. i also believe that it is justified for member states to sign the social investment pact, which will enable them to establish a better governance and control mechanism for the implementation of the europe 2020 objectives in the areas of employment, social affairs and education.
in writing. − the unemployment rate in eu countries rose to an average of over 10% in 2012 and in many regions is close to 20%. unemployment has mainly affected young people, low-skilled workers and the long-term unemployed. with unemployment, of course, comes an increase in poverty, which is at 22% of the european average among young people. for member states, this means an increased burden on social security systems and an increase in public spending, which can lead to weaker economic growth and even a deepening of the economic recession. we regret that most member states have not paid enough attention to the area of social affairs, employment and education, which i would see as a certain failure of the lisbon strategy. it is therefore necessary for member states to set up a mechanism to deliver effectively on the objectives of the new europe 2020 strategy. at eu level, we need to ensure that the 2014-2020 multiannual financial framework contains the adequate budgetary resources necessary to stimulate and support social investment. i am therefore convinced that we must clearly maintain the budgetary volume for the structural funds, in particular the european social fund, in the next programming period, so that they can continue to support social investments and their priorities reflecting the specific needs of the member states.
in writing. − if you have one of the most significant societal impacts of the current economic and social crisis is the steadily rising unemployment rate in eu countries. it is the generation of young people that is most affected. students leaving university during this period encounter various obstacles that prevent them from fully engaging in the work process. whether it is the shortage of jobs, the high skill requirements of employers or the consequences of natural population ageing, the consequences of the crisis are unimaginable. a young man has to handle them himself. but there is a rule, and it is this: the longer a young person is unemployed, the more difficult and challenging it is for him to get any kind of employment. the economic and social consequences of youth unemployment are alarming. without work, it is absolutely impossible to plan for the future, to develop one's skills or to participate in social life. if we don't protect the interests of the younger generation, what future awaits us? for these reasons, i call on all relevant actors to focus on better allocating public finances and ensuring a sufficient share of financing in the 2014-2020 mff to support employment, job creation and support training programmes and skills that could counter the risks posed by the crisis. by ensuring investment in the social sphere, we will contribute to better youth employment and labour market balance.
in writing. − production in the european union is very diverse and of high quality, and the european union guarantees a high level of health safety and has all the resources at its disposal to take advantage of the projected development of global demand, provided that it highlights its strengths through a better targeted and more ambitious promotion policy. in addition, consumers in the internal market need to be better informed about the quality and variety of the offer available. the current legislative proposals on this issue for the period after 2013, which are currently being negotiated, aim to enable this policy to contribute fully to the europe 2020 strategy by promoting agriculture that provides guarantees for food security, sustainable use of natural resources and development of rural areas, while being a source of growth and jobs. an effective promotion policy is a necessary condition for achieving the objectives set. the reform of the common agricultural policy aims at improving the organisation of production, sustainability and quality of agricultural products. i believe it is essential to complement it with a promotion policy that will allow the food sector to develop to its full potential, thereby encouraging growth and employment in the european economy.
in writing. − the basis for the eu promotion policy needs to be better defined. the potential of local production and short food supply chains should also be promoted through the implementation of promotional actions. the development of short food supply chains and local markets could also mean job creation at local level and local management systems would restore added value to farmers. european producers must face new challenges and adopt production systems that adapt to them, such as climate change, loss of soil fertility, biodiversity. promotional activities should focus more on quality and locally produced products. quality products, flavours guaranteed by tradition, are what are increasingly attracting consumers within the eu. i therefore support the promotion of a programme to promote a variety of european tastes that are in line with consumer tastes. i also consider it important that each promotion and information activity should bring citizens and producers together. for schoolchildren, the school fruit and school milk schemes bring them closer to farmers. farm visits can provide direct experience of the food production process and the functioning of the common agricultural policy.
in writing. − the directive on the resale right was drawn up with a dual objective: on the one hand, to ensure that authors of graphic and fine art works share in the economic success of their original works of art and, on the other, to harmonise the application of the resale right in the eu. the commission considers that a clear link cannot be established between the loss of eu market share in the global market for modern and contemporary art and the harmonisation of the provisions on the application of resale rights in the eu as from 1 january 2006. nor can clear signs of a systematic shift of trade within the union from those member states which introduced the resale right for living artists in 2006 be demonstrated at present. however, the commission recognises that there is pressure on european art markets, across all price ranges, both for auctions and art dealers. the commission also notes that the quality of the administration of the resale right varies from one member state to another. therefore, the burden for lower level market players may be particularly high, as they are more burdened by the costs of managing the resale right. in this context, i believe that the commission should work closely with stakeholders to strengthen the position of the european art market and to remove some of the difficulties and obstacles.
in writing. − at its meeting on 19 october 2010, the conference of committee chairs held an extensive exchange of views on the negotiations relating to the ordinary legislative procedure. in his letter of 18 april, president buzek informed president casini of the outcome of this meeting and informed him of the decision of the conference to invite the committee on constitutional affairs to review rule 70 of the rules of procedure with a view to making the procedures more efficient, transparent and open by incorporating some key elements of the code of conduct for negotiations under the ordinary legislative procedure into a binding part of the rules of procedure. the question of interinstitutional negotiations and agreements in legislative procedures is also linked to the question of representative democracy at european level, on the basis of the principles of openness and democratic accountability. the public nature of debates and votes has been linked to democratic accountability since the beginning of parliamentary democracy: if voters were not able to know what their elected representatives are saying and how they are voting, they could not hold them accountable in the next elections. in this context, the introduction of binding provisions on negotiation in legislative procedures, which increase openness and thus accountability, would be a step towards strengthening representative democracy at european level.
in writing. − by letter of 13 january 2012, the president of parliament informed the committee on constitutional affairs of the decision taken by the bureau to restrict the translation of verbatim minutes of debates, to which parliament had committed itself when preparing the 2012 budget. in accordance with the current rule 181, the verbatim translations of the minutes of the proceedings are to be provided in all the official languages. at the same time, and in accordance with article 182, the audio-visual recording of the hearing shall be made available to the public on the internet, with interpretation into all the official languages, immediately after the conclusion of the hearing. in addition, the proceedings are broadcast in real time on the internet. members may also request that parts of the verbatim record be translated within a short time. after adopting a package of austerity measures for the 2012 budget, parliament has indeed fulfilled its budgetary commitments and started to translate the cre into english only as of july 2011. however, this situation is contrary to the current wording of articles 181 and 146 and could jeopardise the principle of multilingualism. i therefore consider it justified to draw up the cre only as a multilingual document, in which all speeches will be recorded only in their original language without any automatic translation being provided. the production of verbatim records in their original language will lead to greater budget and resource savings, while preserving the principle of multilingualism.
in writing. − on 4 october 2010, the commission adopted a proposal for a new regulation on the approval and market surveillance of two- or three-wheel vehicles and quadricycles. the l-category covers a wide range of vehicles: mopeds, two- or three-wheel motorcycles, quadricycles and mini-cars. the number of l-category vehicles currently in use in the eu is estimated at over 30 million. the european commission is seeking to simplify the current legal framework and to set new administrative and technical requirements, for example on environmental and safety aspects and market surveillance. the type-approval requirements for new l-category vehicles are currently laid down in framework directive 2002/24/ec and 14 other directives which refer to it. those directives will be repealed and replaced by a proposal setting out the basic provisions and the scope. the detailed technical requirements shall be specified in delegated acts at a later stage. the commission's proposal has an ambitious but somewhat complex set of dates and deadlines. in the interests of clarity, rationality and simplification, i think it is justified to consider drawing up a more transparent timetable with clear and decisive steps in terms of better market surveillance, stricter emission levels and binding safety requirements. this gives industry and national administrations time to adapt appropriately to the new requirements and obligations.
in writing. − the number of l-category vehicles, which includes mopeds, two- or three-wheel motorcycles, four-wheelers and minivans, is currently estimated at over 30 million. the legal and technical requirements for the approval of new l-category vehicles are currently laid down in framework directive 2002/24/ec and 14 other directives, which contributes to the lack of clarity and the complexity of interpretation. i therefore welcome the replacement of those directives by the proposal presented, setting out the essential requirements and scope, with the technical details to be subsequently determined in the delegated acts. when setting safety standards, we must focus on the protection of the life and health of drivers of l-category vehicles, as they are up to 18 times more likely to die in an accident than drivers of cars. i therefore support the mandatory introduction of anti-lock braking systems, so-called abs, on new motorcycles, as their use could, according to estimates, prevent 20 to 35% of all accidents or significantly reduce the severity of the consequences of accidents. as regards environmental aspects, i agree with the adoption of stricter emission limits for harmful substances within a reasonable timeframe to allow industry to adapt smoothly to the new requirements.
in writing. − the aim of the proposal is to establish harmonised rules for the production of agricultural and forestry vehicles (tractors, trailers and towed equipment) in order to ensure the functioning of the internal market while providing a high level of road safety, environmental protection and crew safety. the proposed regulation significantly simplifies existing type-approval legislation by replacing 24 basic directives (and some 35 related amending directives). the new regulation and its implementing and delegated acts are designed to maintain the requirements laid down in existing legislation without reducing the current level of protection. the commission proposal contributes to the competitiveness of the sector by simplifying existing type-approval legislation. in order to ensure a high level of road safety, crew safety and environmental protection and to complete the internal market for agricultural and forestry vehicles, i believe that it would be appropriate to consider and introduce a union approval procedure for all vehicle categories, while taking into account the cost-benefit ratio, with particular attention to be paid to small and medium-sized enterprises. the objective of the draft report presented is to address the key issues that require careful consideration in this draft, in order to facilitate the deliberations of the committee.
in writing. − the diversity of payment instruments at european and global level is increasing. although new uses of mobile and internet payments appear to be developing rapidly and are attractive to both consumers and businesses, the card payment market is far from reaching its full potential. in the eu, markets for card, internet and mobile payments are still fragmented. there are considerable differences between member states when it comes to the use of card payments. the process of creating a single euro payments area (sepa) is simplifying bank transfers in 32 european countries and by 2014 all participating countries should have common sepa standards in place. i believe that if sepa is to bridge the gap between domestic and cross-border payments, the aim should be, within the framework of the integration of the card payments market, to make cross-border payments as advantageous as domestic payments. at the same time, common technical and security standards should facilitate market entry for new entrants, promote the use of card payments and make them a simpler, safer and more efficient option for consumers. the guidance for the further development of common technical and safety standards should include the achievement of a level of common infrastructure that provides a level playing field, fosters innovation and competitiveness, but does not create additional obstacles to the development of the whole area.
in writing. − in today's digital world, almost every citizen is using one of the forms of payment. children have accounts, old-age pensioners have accounts, and they are using cashless payments, whether they want to or not. the commission's green paper initiative on an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments should therefore be welcomed. there are certainly many problems, but i will mention at least those that we, as customers of banking services, have to face most. it's high time we standardized card payments. while in some member states payments are not allowed, in other member states they harm consumers by overcharging them. cash withdrawal fees vary from bank to bank, and many times they charge a fee to check your account balance. real-time clearing and settlement should no longer be a problem for monetary institutions today, but it is still a problem. i'm sure many of you have experienced what i've experienced, where i've sent funds from one bank account to another and the withdrawal was recorded immediately, and the deposit was not made until the next day or two days later? an integrated european market for card, internet and mobile payments will certainly remove these problems too, albeit not in the short term.
in writing. − shadow banking as such is carried out through entities or financial contracts that create a combination of functions similar to those of banks, but outside the regulatory framework or under a regulatory regime that is either insufficiently rigorous or addresses issues other than systemic risks, and without access to central bank liquidity facilities or credit guarantees provided by the public sector. entities such as special purpose entities, off-balance sheet related entities, special purpose investment companies, money market funds, exchange traded funds and investment funds may be considered as shadow banking entities. as regards shadow banking activities, the european commission distinguishes between repurchase transactions, securities lending and securitisation. clearly, shadow banking does not exist in isolation. the commission notes that the bank has not provided any evidence that the bank has been able to compete with other banks in the union. as the commission underlined in its green paper, various measures have been taken to address the systemic risks posed by shadow banking. the market has also responded and since the start of the crisis, some of the shadow banking practices have disappeared. however, the innovative nature of the shadow banking system may lead to new developments that may be a source of systemic risk that needs to be addressed. in order to address this issue adequately, the necessary monitoring tools should be established in order to obtain a concrete overview of the entire credit intermediation system.
in writing. - european children spend up to 40 hours a week watching television. they spend about 88 minutes a day on the internet, starting on average at the age of nine, but in some cases before they start reading and going to school. the first issue to be addressed still concerns the digital divide, which in the current economic situation threatens all vulnerable groups, including minors, and negatively affects their economic, social and cultural future. the report deals comprehensively with an issue that has significantly changed the lives of minors in the european union over the last few years. the provision of harmful content online with strong elements of violence, discrimination, sexism, racism, of a nature not suitable for minors, may reduce the perception of an offence to human dignity by an unprepared user and facilitate the spread of the use of the network by minors with intentions that are more or less consciously harmful to their dignity or the dignity of others. i consider it essential that member states strive to protect minors in the digital world also by promoting all forms of control over its forms, which is essential for full and active citizenship, for being able to offer european citizens the opportunity to capture the cultural and economic dimension of all types of media related to digital technology and to contribute to the implementation of the lisbon objectives, by promoting the development of the knowledge economy and enhancing competitiveness.
in writing. − the digital world offers many possibilities and opportunities in the field of education and training. children at a very young age are very adept at navigating technology and have almost unlimited access to it. many times it is curiosity that compels them to discover the unknown without realizing the inconvenience of the known. it is therefore necessary to take measures to protect children from illegal online content, from the abuse of minors, from violent advertising, from the threat that attacks them every day through the digital world. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, together with the eu charter of fundamental rights, which is legally binding, article 24 defines the protection of children as a fundamental right and provides that all actions concerning children, whether taken by public authorities or private institutions, must take the best interests of the child into account in the first place. in the interests of protecting children, a coordinated approach to the protection of minors' rights in the digital world by the european institutions and the member states is necessary.
in writing. − in particular, the subtitle of the european commission's communication of 25 october 2011 entitled 'the social enterprise initiative' should be noted, as it describes in a comprehensive way the eu's comprehensive objectives: creating an enabling environment for social enterprises in the social economy and social innovation. this objective includes both the recognition of existing structures and the openness to new, innovative forms of the social economy both elements will be essential if we are to identify the social challenges of the europe 2020 strategy and successfully deliver its objectives. on the basis of commission initiatives, appropriate measures in this area should be developed at national and regional level as soon as possible. the report also states that this upcoming phase should be associated with a high degree of innovation and with experiments whose success or failure will be assessed by the eu institutions together with the member states in the foreseeable future. this will then provide concrete conclusions for the relevant optimisation measures, which will allow the further development of social entrepreneurship to be pursued effectively in the longer term. i believe that the key measures proposed by the commission, such as the mapping of social entrepreneurship in europe, the creation of a certification database or a large-scale information platform for mutual learning, could also contribute to achieving the stated objective. the introduction of the social enterprise quality label could also significantly encourage and contribute to further development.
in writing. − social enterprises currently represent 10% of all european enterprises and employ 6% of the total workforce. the commission's communication 'social entrepreneurship: towards a job-rich recovery' should therefore be welcomed and supported. the definition of what constitutes a social enterprise is also a positive step for the initiative, as the conditions for the creation and operation of a social enterprise differ in each member state. in times of crisis, social enterprises also face difficulties in accessing funding to expand their activities and therefore need specific and targeted support. it should be borne in mind that social enterprises fill the gap in employment and job creation, especially in the health, social services and environmental sectors. social enterprises will be able to benefit from support from the funds under the multiannual financial framework, but support will also be needed at local, regional and national level.
in writing. − if you have since the signing of the treaty of rome, the european union has made a significant move towards political, economic, fiscal and monetary integration. the roadmap for a 'stable and prosperous eu' presented by president van rompuy at the european council in june 2012 does not sufficiently address employment and social policy, although they are essential elements of the union's, and in particular the euro area countries', development towards a genuine monetary and economic union. the eu needs to break out of the austerity/recession vicious circle in some member states and take full advantage of the eu's added value, which is not just rules but also common policies. the european economic and monetary union should serve citizens and the real economy first and foremost as the basis for raising the living standards of all citizens. economic and monetary union is not an end in itself but rather an instrument for achieving the objectives of the union and the member states, in particular the objective of balanced and sustainable growth and a high level of employment. social inclusion and solidarity are the cornerstones of the european social model and of european integration as a whole, and i am convinced that they cannot be left out of any future reform of the union.
in writing. − if you have more than 55 years have passed since the signing of the treaty of rome. the european union has made a significant shift towards political, economic, fiscal and monetary integration during its relatively short history. between 2008 and mid-2012, the unemployment rate in the eu-27 rose from around 7% to 10.4%, or 25 million unemployed. more than one in five young people is unemployed (22%) and in some member states youth unemployment is above 50%. the latest eurobarometer survey shows that the ongoing crisis has led to a significant deterioration in trust in political institutions at both national and union level. however, the eu remains the actor most citizens believe to be most effective in tackling the economic crisis. economic and monetary union is an instrument for achieving the objectives of the union and the member states, in particular the objective of balanced and sustainable growth and a high level of employment. social inclusion and solidarity are the cornerstones of the european social model and must be part of any future reform.
in writing. − there is a massive wave of discontent in the eu at the moment. it must be said that the protesting residents are right. they just want to work and live decently. the statistics on unemployment growth also prove them right. from 2008 to the middle of this year, the unemployment rate rose from 7 to 10.4 percent. job creation, quality employment and decent work therefore play a crucial role in overcoming the current crisis. i know the problems in the economic and monetary union, we are proposing solutions, but the problem is the implementation of solutions and their implementation in practice, or their different application in different member states. i agree with the commission's proposal that, while investment in factories and the business sector is necessary to support european industry for growth and jobs, we must also eliminate unfair advantages in comparison with other sectors, so that public funds for industrial support do not harm competition and that support or various benefits are provided selectively in the least developed regions in the framework of solidarity.
in writing. − the joint parliamentary assembly (jpa) met twice in 2011. the 21st meeting was held in budapest (hungary) on 16-18 may and the 22nd meeting in lomé (togo) on 21-23 november. ten resolutions and two declarations were adopted. during the year, a regional meeting was also held in yaoundé, cameroon. the assembly has played and continues to play a key role in monitoring the negotiations on economic partnership agreements. hearings with the lead negotiators on both sides, meetings with economic and social actors (in formal meetings and side events) and interaction between ep representatives and representatives of parliaments from southern countries have contributed to increasing the transparency of the process and better taking into account local issues. regardless of the outcome of the negotiations, i think that the assembly's activities have had a positive impact on the negotiation process itself.
global energy demand is increasing and it seems that europe will remain one of the regions with the highest energy import needs. according to the international energy agency, our energy imports are expected to grow by 40% by 2030. the extraction of shale gas could provide an opportunity to further diversify our gas supply sources and alleviate concerns about import dependency. i believe we need to provide opportunities for sustainable exploitation and utilization without compromising the quantity and quality of our drinking water supply. i believe that more information and public awareness is needed to help the public understand, accept and trust the new technology. it is also important to note that the extraction of non-conventional fossil fuels represents a major opportunity to boost the economy, increase employment and, not least, promote research, and can also have a positive impact in the fight against climate change in the medium and long term.
in writing. the shale gas drilling raises many questions. although in my country, slovakia, the conditions are not suitable for this type of extraction, it is necessary to speak very openly about the arguments for and against shale gas extraction. i appreciate the commission's report, which sums up very seriously the environmental risks of shale gas extraction. i want to support mr. sonik's report. on the other hand, i think the itre report is too optimistic. the economic data on employment reported by firms, as well as stock-out estimates, are still at the level of estimates. the legislative conditions are also against mining the authorities and institutions are not ready for this technology, it is not clear who and how will monitor the discharge of fractional fluids, how will the companies be liable for any damages. the eu has no commercial exploitation and the availability of reserves has not yet been demonstrated, so environmental and public health issues must take priority over economic aspects.
the first legislative package of 2001, which required the commission to prepare the transition of the current schengen information system to a more modern, faster and more efficient system, was due to expire on 31 december 2006. the gradual and repeated extension of the deadline for the rapid start-up of sis ii reflects the complexity of a safe and smooth transition between generational systems that are very different. however, during the very long process of dealing with the technical aspects of the transition between the original and the new system, a fundamental change in the legal framework has taken place in the union, which seems to give rise to the need to modify the european community regulation of 1987 by incorporating the relevant provisions of article 92 and the schengen convention. member states that already want to make full use of the technologies of the new sis ii are entitled to request the relevant legislative changes to enable them to legally switch from the old system to the new one. that is why, mr vice-president of the commission, i think it is very important to take all the necessary steps to bring the legislative framework into line as quickly as possible.
in writing. the subject of the extraordinary european council meeting is the eu's multiannual financial framework 2014-2020. the european council is not a direct party to the negotiations, but it guides the council through political agreement on key policy issues! when we talk about the imf, we're talking about translating our political priorities for a certain period into financial terms. there's more to these negotiations than money. the imf sets budgetary discipline and ensures that expenditure is drawn systematically and in line with our policy objectives. we recognise that the eu budget is a key instrument for overcoming the current crisis and an expression of mutual solidarity within the eu. the right financial priorities will have a positive impact on growth and employment. funding for projects aimed at increasing competitiveness, supporting small and medium-sized enterprises, promoting research and innovation, investments aimed at job creation, as well as supporting measures to combat climate change, will need to be significantly increased. however, it should be borne in mind that the imf negotiations should be concluded as soon as possible, namely by the end of 2012. only then can we make a smooth transition from one financial period to the next. if these programmes are to be implemented from january 2014, political agreement must be reached at least one and a half years before the framework takes effect.
in today's vote i supported the report by mrs niki tzavel on shale gas extraction. i believe that, although such extraction is associated with many environmental risks, it is necessary to examine and identify the potential of this energy source for the energy industry of the european union. in the present situation, when it is necessary to find a way of diversifying energy sources, we should also consider this possibility. i also agree that the principle of subsidiarity should be applied in this case, so that member states themselves can determine their own energy mix. i also expect that any extraction will take account of european environmental standards.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 5/2012 concerns the mobilisation of the eu solidarity fund (eusf) of eur 670 192 359 in commitment and payment appropriations in connection with the series of earthquakes in the emilia-romagna region of italy in may 2012. it aims to formally incorporate this budgetary adjustment into the 2012 budget and to amend budget line 16 05 03 01 preparatory action european year of voluntary service 2011 by replacing the indent indicated instead of the payments in the line with a symbolic entry (p.m.) in order to make the final payments possible. the european parliament considers the rapid release of financial assistance to persons affected by natural disasters through the eu solidarity fund to be of great importance and therefore welcomes the rapid submission of the application for financial assistance from the esf by the italian authorities as well as the rapid submission of the commission's proposal to mobilise the esf. at the same time, it called on the council not to undermine the efforts to provide union assistance swiftly by unnecessarily delaying its decision on such a sensitive and urgent issue.
in writing. − the european union has set up the european union solidarity fund to show solidarity with the population in regions affected by disasters. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the fund within the annual ceiling of eur 1 billion. italy has submitted an application to mobilise the fund, in response to a disaster caused by a series of earthquakes in italy. for the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2012, the commission, after examining the application submitted and taking into account the maximum possible financial contribution from the fund and the extent of the reallocation of appropriations under the heading requiring additional expenditure, proposes to mobilise a total of eur 670 192 359 from the european union solidarity fund, in the form of commitment and payment appropriations.
in writing. − the adoption of an implementing regulation amending regulation no 2658/87 is necessary to implement the provisions of the agreements on concessions arrangements for processed poultrymeat signed by the european union with brazil and thailand in june 2012. a mutually satisfactory countervailing duty drawback was found on the basis of article xxviii of the general agreement on tariffs and trade 1994. the annex to the regulation on the customs and statistical nomenclature and on the common customs tariff should take into account the agreed adjustments to the concessions for processed poultrymeat (chapter 16 of the combined nomenclature). it is expected that the implementation of the agreements will result in an increase in the out-of-quota rates for 7 tariff lines for processed poultrymeat products and the opening of tariff quotas for these tariff lines for brazil, thailand and other wto members. moreover, those generic customs duties laid down by regulation (eec) no 2658/87 on the tariff and statistical nomenclature and on the common customs tariff are higher than the current wto binding customs duties, therefore the generic customs duties laid down before the uruguay round should be raised to the level of the contractual customs duties. i am of the opinion that this appropriate leveling of rates will ensure a solution that is mutually acceptable to all trading partners. it is also necessary to increase the level of protection in order to address the impact of substitution on the eu poultry industry.
in writing. − in view of the economic importance of imports of raw wood for the european union and the importance of the russian federation to the union as a supplier of raw wood, the commission has agreed with the russian federation commitments to reduce or eliminate the export duty currently applied by the russian federation to raw wood. the commitments which will become part of the concession list of the russian federation following its accession to the world trade organisation (wto) include tariff quotas for the export of certain species of coniferous wood, part of which has been allocated for export to the union. in the context of the negotiations on the accession of the russian federation to the wto, the commission has negotiated, on behalf of the union, an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters with the russian federation concerning the administration of the tariff quotas applicable to exports of certain coniferous wood from the russian federation to the union. in order to ensure legal certainty and continuity for economic operators, the legal effects of the preparatory measures adopted on the basis of implementing regulation (eu) no 498/2012 should be preserved by means of new implementing acts to be adopted pursuant to this regulation.
in writing. − if you have following the gatt 1994 article xxviii negotiations on poultry concluded in 2007, the eu has experienced a dramatic increase in imports of processed poultrymeat. as this increase is adversely affecting the european poultry industry, the council empowered the commission to renegotiate the adjustment of the concessions for poultrymeat under chapter 16 of the combined nomenclature. article xxviii of gatt 1994, entitled 'modification of the docu­ments', is the main provision governing the renegotiation of tariff concessions. the commission has been in parallel negotiations with brazil and thailand, whose exports would mostly be affected by the adjustment of concessions. two years of negotiations resulted in an agreement in the form of an exchange of letters initialled at the end of 2011 and signed with both partners at the end of june 2012. a mutually satisfactory countervailing arrangement was found to compensate for the increase in the level of the duties being imposed. under the agreements, the eu should compensate for the increase in the duties by opening tariff quotas and allocating a substantial part of them to brazil and thailand. under the agreements, the eu should compensate for the increase in the duties by opening tariff quotas and allocating a substantial part of them to brazil and thailand. i am in favour of applying a reasonable balance which guarantees a mutually acceptable solution for the trading partners. the increased level of protection is compensated for under the rules-based wto system, thus maintaining the general level of reciprocal and mutually beneficial concessions.
in writing. − the european parliament, having regard to the draft agreement in the form of an exchange of letters between the european union, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, amending protocols 1 and 2 to the euro-mediterranean agreement establishing an association between the european communities and their member states, of the one part, and the state of israel, of the other part, gave its consent to the conclusion of the agreement in question and at the same time instructed its president to forward this position to the council, the commission and the governments and parliaments of the member states and the state of israel.
in writing. − if you have this bilateral agreement with the russian federation was negotiated in the context of the accession of the russian federation to the world trade organisation. the european parliament has been asked to give its consent, which is a necessary precondition for the council to formally conclude the agreement. the russian federation has committed to reduce the export duty rates it currently applies to raw materials, including timber products, in the context of its accession process to the wto. russia has introduced tariff quotas for certain wood species. the detailed technical procedures for this joint management of tariff quotas are laid down in the eu-russia protocol. this protocol contains a set of guidelines agreed by the eu and russia to be followed when the respective share of managed quotas is reached and to be followed by their cooperation, where appropriate. it also lays down consultation and dispute settlement procedures. the european union has an eminent interest in the conclusion of a bilateral agreement as it will ensure a significant improvement in the supply of timber from russia. i consider it extremely important and justified to prevent the continuous increase of timber export duties applied by russia since 2007 and which has affected many eu producers. the agreement will contribute to better predictability and better trading conditions.
in writing. − the sis (schengen information system) is clearly the most important security tool in the schengen area, which is rightly considered to be the backbone of a europe without borders and an area of freedom, security and justice. sis ii (sis second generation) allows for the addition of new data (in particular biometric data), new types of labelling and new functionalities that can increase security and lead to a more intelligent use of information through linked alerts. however, the new system must first be tested, in particular in terms of its stability, availability and performance. the transition from sis 1+ to sis ii should start immediately after the successful completion of the testing, probably in january 2013. for several years, parliament has advocated the need to adopt a clear solution at union level and has refused to continue to use the intergovernmental structure. i believe that this is one of the reasons for supporting sis ii. i believe that this is an important tool to strengthen security in the schengen area, to end the intergovernmental management of the system and to significantly improve data protection and fundamental rights of individuals. it should therefore enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. − the sis (schengen information system) is clearly the most important security tool in the schengen area, which is rightly considered to be the backbone of a europe without borders and an area of freedom, security and justice. sis ii (sis second generation) allows for the addition of new data (in particular biometric data), new types of labelling and new functionalities that can increase security and lead to a more intelligent use of information through linked alerts. the transition from sis 1+ to sis ii should start immediately after the successful completion of the testing, probably in january 2013. after discussion by the member states, the council considered it more appropriate to split the commission's proposal into two texts: one concerning the participation of the united kingdom and ireland and one in which they do not participate. the two council texts thus produced are virtually identical to the commission's original proposal. parliament was also informed of this step. for several years, it has advocated the need to adopt a clear solution at union level and has refused to continue to use the intergovernmental structure. i believe that this is one of the reasons for supporting sis ii. i believe that this is an important tool to strengthen security in the schengen area, to end the intergovernmental management of the system and to significantly improve data protection and fundamental rights of individuals. it should therefore enter into force as soon as possible.
in writing. − gas will play a crucial role in transforming the energy system and reducing emissions through existing technologies until at least 2030 or 2035. lng and other unconventional gas sources have become a potentially important new source of supply in europe and surrounding countries. the extraction of unconventional hydrocarbons, mainly shale gas but also shale oil, has led to unprecedented and radical changes in world energy markets in recent years. changes in world gas prices and trade patterns are occurring, with clear implications for the eu. several member states have authorised shale gas exploration and are preparing to extract it if discoveries make it possible. it is important to monitor regulatory regimes and practices around the world and to identify and address concerns regarding the environmental impact of shale gas and shale oil extraction. these concerns relate to the potential consumption of large quantities of water, the potential chemical pollution of groundwater and especially drinking water, waste water treatment and the risk to surface water, the storage of logs extracted, site-specific impacts, seismic impacts and possible greenhouse gas emissions. i think it is right to stress that extracting unconventional fossil fuels can also be a great opportunity to boost the economy and increase employment and development in some regions of the eu.
in writing. − there is no human activity that is completely risk-free, and this is doubly true of man's industrial activities. activities affecting the public and their health and the environment as a whole therefore require a transparent public debate on the economic benefits, but also on the potential risks to human health and the environment. unfortunately, there is a lot of manipulation of information in the current discussion about shale gas and shale oil. in the absence of sufficient transparent data on fissile chemicals and the environmental and health risks associated with hydraulic fracturing, it is necessary to develop independent scientific studies on the long-term impact of specific extraction methods on water and air pollution and, in particular, on human health. the commission has also been asked to provide information on the environmental impact of the proposed measures. at the same time, however, the effectiveness of the application of existing legislation needs to be increased by strengthening regulatory, monitoring and enforcement capacities, in particular at member state level.
in writing. − lng is one of the new unconventional gas sources in europe in recent times. the eu is fully aware of the increase in shale gas's share of the us market, which stood at 17% in 2011, and of the gradual change in the structure of gas trade on world markets. it should be borne in mind that the possible extraction of the gas in question on its territory would ensure a certain energy independence for the countries. however, it should not be forgotten that any human intervention in nature carries with it certain risks. this is especially true for mining or drilling. given the many risks to human health and the environment arising from shale gas extraction, i am in favour of a thorough integration of environmental legislation in national states. i also reject any hydraulic mining in areas where the use of chemicals could lead to contamination of water sources and soil.
in writing. − shale gas extraction can have a significant impact on the dynamics and prices of the natural gas market as well as on electricity generation. unconventional gas sources in the form of shale gas, shale gas and coalbed methane already account for more than half of us gas production, with shale gas accounting for the largest increase. it is estimated that the total reserves in the eu exceed 56 000 billion m3, with technically usable resources of around 14 000 billion m3. however, there are concerns about the environmental impact of mining. the potential for large-scale water consumption, chemical pollution of groundwater and especially drinking water, waste water treatment and surface water risks, storage of logs, site-specific impacts, seismic impacts and potential greenhouse gas emissions. it is therefore important to monitor regulatory regimes and practices around the world. the commission and the national competent authorities should continue to examine the potential impact on the rac and provide the public with information based on validated scientific data, all while maintaining the utmost transparency. we need to carefully weigh all the benefits and risks, and the only way we can do that is to eliminate the deliberate concealment of facts that is currently taking place in public debate.
in writing. − the committee on petitions has a duty to constantly review and, where possible, strengthen its role, especially in the light of the development of democratic principles such as increased citizen participation in the eu decision-making process and enhanced transparency and accountability. in its regular work, the committee works closely with the member states, the commission, the european ombudsman and other bodies to ensure that the letter and spirit of eu law are fully respected. european citizens and permanent residents of the territory of the member states of the union have a legitimate expectation that the problems they bring to the committee on petitions will be resolved without undue delay within the legal framework of the european union. they rightly expect the committee to exercise their rights as citizens of the union and, in particular, to defend their natural environment, health, freedom of movement, dignity, fundamental rights and freedoms. the effectiveness of the committee's work is largely due to its speed and accuracy, but i believe that it could be improved, in particular by optimising the time taken to deal with petitions and systematising decision-making procedures.
mr president, this house has always been a strong supporter of enlargement and although i have some critical remarks concerning this report, i am glad that it confirms our commitment to enlargement strongly. i think it is important to talk about strengthening enlargement policy right now, yet i still think that with this report we are missing an opportunity to do so more concretely and more coherently. as a committed supporter of enlargement, i think that we should have a clear and sharp vision in this respect. this is for our future’s sake and for the sake of the accession countries. we need to be able to articulate problems and show the direction. enlargement has been a successful process so far. despite the challenges the union and the accession countries are facing now, i still believe it could bring further benefits to us all. the eu therefore has to strengthen its position in this process. if we want to drive the process forward, we need to show the ability to contribute substantially to the solution of such critical issues like the name issue of macedonia, kosovo or the future of bosnia herzegovina. it is good that things are moving on, yet we need stronger commitment and a clear vision not just to move things but also to achieve goals.
in writing. turkey's accession process to the european union has been ongoing for decades. it's going to take a long time. but the point of the matter is not the length, but the integrity of the process. the negotiation of individual chapters is a complex technical-political problem. in particular, in view of the situation in cyprus. however, it is quite clear that this situation can only be remedied by joint efforts, because the mistake has also been made on the eu side, in particular by the indiscriminate admission of only one part of cyprus as an eu member. turkey must also show goodwill. the same is true of respect for fundamental human rights which is certainly not perfect, but turkey has made significant progress in the last decade. moreover, the eu should also encourage turkey's positive role in the democratisation of north africa in its acceptance of turkey. turkey is the model that most arab countries are turning to for hope, while turning away from iran. a greater contribution to the fight against the threat of terrorism is hard to imagine. it is in this context, ladies and gentlemen, that the question of turkey's membership of the eu must be reconsidered without any preconceived notions.
, blue-card question. – mr cohn-bendit, do you think the effort to open the gaza strip for economic and humanitarian activities is possible without stopping the import of rockets and other military equipment into gaza, especially from iran?
in writing in 2014, eu citizens will once again be able to go to the ballot box and decide who represents them directly in brussels, the centre of european union affairs. if we cannot fully emerge from the crisis by then, we must concentrate our efforts on giving the citizens of europe hope for the future. i believe that only along the lines of democratic values can we create a europe that is both competitive and supportive. political parties at european level will have the task of strengthening european political awareness and translating the will of eu citizens into action. as will be the case in the next elections, thanks to the lisbon treaty, i am confident that the political legitimacy of both parliament and the commission will be strengthened by the more direct link between the election of the two institutions and the choice of the voters. it is the parliament's task to prepare this process properly and to inform citizens. voters need to know why and who they're voting for in two years. they need to see the changes that have been made in european political cooperation and, above all, how this will have the greatest possible positive impact on their own lives. i hope that the new european parliament and the european commission will be able to take shape in 2014 along the lines of christian-democratic ideals and with european solidarity in mind.
the technological sophistication of chinese production is making great strides and is already on a par with the world leaders in many segments. one of the areas where chinese production is clearly intimidating to competing producers in the us and europe is also the production of solar panels, which chinese producers can sell at significantly better prices than our companies. the commission has not provided any evidence that the chinese exporting producers have been able to obtain sufficient quantities of solar modules from the union industry to meet the demand for solar modules. commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i think we have to decide in this case whether we want to meet our environmental objectives as stated in the 2020 strategy and strive for the fastest and most efficient deployment of renewable energy sources, or we want to protect the profits and economic interests of those companies that cannot compete fairly with the much cheaper and more accessible chinese production.
mr president, i also want to add to my voice to this important topic. it is very good that we are having this discussion in parliament and i underline that everyone must play fair and we should make sure the playing field is not tilted towards either side. the chinese export of solar panels to the european union clearly showed dumping characteristics and the eu must react promptly. our friends across the atlantic, the united states, have already reacted. i fully agree with commissioner rehn that we have a duty and a legal obligation to act. we must act without any unnecessary delays.
i could not support the motion for a resolution because it does not take into account the contribution of slovakia and other new member states to the european union to reduce emissions. these countries have fulfilled their commitments under the kyoto protocol, helping the european union as a whole to take the lead in the fight against climate change. it is unacceptable that this contribution of our countries should not be taken into account today. the ban on the transfer of emission allowances deprives slovakia and other central and eastern european countries of a significant amount of resources and investments in the green economy.
20 years after the copenhagen conference, we have an economic crisis. we need to say what the european union has brought for the acceding countries. the eu is undoubtedly a successful project. it has brought about great changes in people's lives, but the crisis has also presented us with new challenges. we need to talk more about the values that our common europe brings to people, but also more about the dimension of solidarity. we also need to talk about the social challenges, especially when this dimension is of the utmost importance. many of us would not be here today if it were not for the expansion. enlargement has contributed to the peace, stability and prosperity of the eu. human rights and freedoms have become the basis of the rule of law. enlargement is good for the eu as a whole, while also putting it in a better position to tackle global problems, which is why i supported the resolution and the conditions that should make enlargement more credible and effective. the whole accession process should be limited by transparent and fair benchmarks, thus creating concrete steps towards accession that would not be called into question, as they would be the result of clear, concrete and measurable objectives.
i am very pleased that we have been able to prepare a balanced resolution on the situation in gaza. like most of my colleagues and citizens of the european union, i am filled with unbridled optimism about the ceasefire agreement that has been adopted. however, i could not support the proposed article 5 of the motion for a resolution, which deviates significantly from the overall nature of the resolution. if we are talking about finding a compromise solution that both sides can live with, we must not at the same time support the claims of one side. that's not a responsible and balanced approach, that's not the way to a peaceful solution. state sovereignty over palestinian-inhabited territory can be a reward for the pursuit of peaceful coexistence, not a bargaining chip.
mr president, i voted in favour of the report of mr danjean. i believe that the european parliament needs to encourage member states to make full use of their strategic and budgetary capacities to promote the csdp. this policy has to remain the eu’s crisis management instrument. it also needs to be brought to its full potential, especially when it comes to implementation of the mechanisms introduced under the lisbon treaty. i also want to stress the important role of eu civilian and military missions for the eu’s political credibility. as an example in this context, i want to mention our biggest csdp mission, which is in kosovo.
i supported the report because i believe that the eu's security strategy of previous years is inadequate and outdated in the face of today's security challenges. despite the lack of commitment in this area by some member states, limited by the current crisis and by low defence budgets, the union must play a decisive role in ensuring security for member states and their citizens. the union must find a way to assert its strategic independence through a strong and effective foreign, security and defence policy, which allows it to act independently when necessary. the economic crisis has hit defence capabilities hard, but eu security policy cannot be left to others. there has to be political will. to achieve this, the commission and the council must clearly define the eu's strategic interests and position them in such a way as to preserve not only the current, existing, defence communities and links in the context of changing threats, but above all to create the conditions for the capability of its own capabilities to respond to evolving threats.
in writing. − if you have the action plan for salmon adopted in 1997 by the international baltic sea fisheries commission came to an end in 2010. the contracting parties to the baltic sea environmental protection commission (helcom) are urging the eu to develop a long-term management plan for farmed salmon. directive 2000/60/ec, which sets the scope of european union action in the field of water management, aims to protect, conserve and improve the aquatic environment in which salmon undergo part of their life cycle. the multiannual plans for the stock of common salmon in the baltic sea should contribute to the achievement of the objectives of that directive. measures that are necessary, such as river basin management plans, should not be duplicated in this regulation, but it is necessary to ensure coordination and consistency between measures taken under this regulation and those under that directive to protect and improve the habitat of salmon in inland waters. on the basis of scientific advice, it is likely that genetic contamination of the salmon stock may cause a decrease in the survival and occurrence of the original stock and impair the genetic capacity to cope with diseases and changes in local and environmental conditions. therefore, the protection of the genetic integrity and diversity of the stock of common salmon plays a crucial role in its conservation and i believe that it should be part of the multiannual plan as one of its objectives.
in writing. − if you have several basic regulations relating to the common commercial policy provide that acts are to be adopted on the basis of the procedures laid down in council decision 1999/468/ec of 28 june 1999 laying down the procedures for the exercise of implementing powers conferred on the commission. in order to ensure consistency with the provisions introduced by the treaty of lisbon, it is necessary to carry out a review of the existing legislation which was not adapted to the regulatory procedure with scrutiny before the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon. in certain cases, it is appropriate to amend such legislation in order to confer on the commission the powers delegated to it under article 290 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. the trade ii single act shall review all other decision-making procedures contained in the commercial policy legislation with a view to adapting them, where appropriate, to the regime of delegated acts provided for in article 290. these are in principle decision-making procedures based on council decision 1999/468/ec. i consider the commission's proposal to transpose certain procedures into delegated acts to be justified. it is important to enable the european parliament, as the directly elected representative of the eu citizens, to exercise fully the newly acquired powers and proper parliamentary oversight of the executive, while allowing for the flexible, timely and predictable implementation of the common commercial policy.
in writing. − if you have in 2008, the commission presented a proposal for a council regulation on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures to replace regulation (ec) no 850/98 on the conservation of fishery resources through technical measures for the protection of juveniles of marine organisms and to ensure the permanent application of the technical measures provided for in the annual transitional regulation on fishing opportunities. however, in view of the fact that no political agreement was reached, this proposal was withdrawn in october 2010. the technical measures provided for in regulations (ec) no 43/2009 are important from the point of view of the sustainability of fisheries and it is necessary to ensure their continuity. however, a mere temporary suspension of the application of those measures would have negative consequences for the conservation of the stocks covered by those measures as well as for the ecosystem of vulnerable deep-sea habitats and seabirds. it is also necessary to update the existing measures referred to in regulation (ec) no 43/2009 in line with the recommendation adopted by the north-east atlantic fisheries commission and to include among them certain technical measures to limit discards of deep-sea species in the north-east atlantic under the 2010 agreement with norway, the faroe islands and the eu, which have not yet been transposed into eu law. i agree that it is appropriate to amend regulation (ec) no 850/98 to include the relevant technical measures.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 1185/2003 on the removal of shark fins on board vessels and the current proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending regulation (ec) no 1185/2003 on the removal of shark fins on board vessels concern the prevention and combating of the practice commonly referred to as finning. this involves removing the fins of pelagic shark species and throwing the remaining body parts back into the sea. finning is unacceptable from an environmental point of view (it threatens the sustainability of some of the shark species that are subject to this practice), as well as from a social and economic point of view (it represents the waste of food with commercial value) and from a moral point of view (it represents an act of absolute disregard for the life of an animal). i consider it essential to condemn unequivocally the practice of removing shark fins and to take appropriate measures to prohibit this practice in european waters. in this context, and with the express aim of preventing this practice, the european council adopted regulation (ec) no 1185/2003 of 26 june 2003 prohibiting the removal of shark fins on board vessels, as well as the retention on board, transhipment or landing of shark fins. despite the absence of any evidence of finning in the european fleet, the commission's aim is to 'eliminate the dreadful practice of shark finning and ensure better protection' through the relevant regulations.
in writing. − the hague convention of 25 october 1980 on the civil aspects of international child abduction has an important rationale, as it creates a system that allows states parties to cooperate in order to find a solution to international child abduction, determining which courts are competent and what jurisdiction they have in deciding where a child should reside. the european union already exercises its internal competence in the field of international child abduction, in particular through council regulation (ec) no 2201/2003 on jurisdiction and the recognition and enforcement of judgments in matrimonial matters and the matters of parental responsibility. however, the convention does not allow international organisations to become members. for this reason too, the european union should empower the member states, by virtue of acting in its interest, to accede to the organisations mentioned. the council should take appropriate steps as soon as possible to adopt decisions proposed by the commission, including consultation of parliament.
in writing. − the international telecommunication regulations (itr), to which the 27 eu member states are signatories, were adopted at the world conference on administrative telegraph and telephony in melbourne in 1988 and have not been revised since. the international telecommunication union (itu) has called for a meeting in dubai on 3-14 december 2012 under the title of the world conference on international telecommunications (wcit) with a view to reaching agreement on a new version of these itrs. some of the proposed amendments to the itr so far concern aspects of international telecommunications which fall clearly within the scope of the eu acquis and union policies, including the relationship between regulators and independent commercial operators, roaming and the protection of personal data. meetings were held in the context of the european conference of postal and telecommunications administrations (cept) to prepare common european positions for the review of the itr. the european commission will inform the international telecommunication union of the respective competences of the european union and its member states in these matters.
in writing. − the decisions on the durban platform for enhanced action (the durban package) recognise that climate change is an urgent and potentially unavoidable threat to human communities and the planet and thus require all parties to address it at international level. the durban package has in principle laid the foundations for a comprehensive, ambitious and internationally legally binding agreement by all parties to be reached by 2015 and to be implemented by 2020. i believe that the doha conference (cop 18) should build on the momentum achieved in durban to ensure that efforts to reach such a global legally binding agreement continue and are achieved by 2015. global innovation in sustainable energy at the level of production and at the level of users is creating jobs, stimulating economic growth and increasing energy independence, and ensuring a cleaner world with climate change mitigation and sufficient energy supplies. i think that the eu should take a leading role in climate protection in order to demonstrate the seriousness of its efforts and in view of its technological and economic capabilities.
in writing. − in accordance with article 49 of the eu treaty, any european state which respects and is committed to promoting the values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, equality, the rule of law and respect for human rights, including the rights of persons belonging to minorities, may apply for membership of the union. these values are the foundation of the european union, guide the union's action on the international stage and must be respected and upheld by all member states. enlargement has been on the eu agenda since the early 1960s. since the first enlargement in 1973, the union has been gradually expanding, with the number of member states increasing from the six founding member states to the present 27 (soon to be 28). enlargement is a success for the eu and europe as a whole, as it has helped to overcome the cold war-era divisions, contributed to peace, stability and prosperity in europe, strengthened conflict prevention, promoted reforms and contributed to the consolidation of the area of freedom, democracy, respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and the rule of law, as well as the market economy and social and environmentally sustainable development. 20 years after the copenhagen summit, which confirmed the prospects for membership for the countries of central and eastern europe and set the accession criteria, i believe that the time has come for a general review of the established procedures and enlargement policy as a whole, without affecting the ongoing negotiations.
in writing. − the attractiveness of the european union is due to its specific socioeconomic model of operation. over the last decade, we have therefore seen two major enlargements that have benefited the eu as a whole, making it a major global player with a market of almost 500 million. however, following the outbreak of the economic and financial crisis, the union and its member states found themselves in an unprecedented situation. the stagnation of economic growth, the growing public deficits and the public debt of many member states have become a real test of solidarity and commitment to the fundamental principles on which the union is founded for the eu and its member states. in the context of the adoption of the 2013 budget and the financial perspective for the years 2014 to 2020, i therefore regret that some countries are abandoning european solidarity between member states and are seeking to push for a reduction in the amount of cohesion policy funds that help to redress inequalities within the eu. yes, a more effective and forward-looking enlargement policy could be a valuable strategic tool for the economic development of the eu and the region, but i believe that all efforts, including financial resources, must be primarily aimed at consolidating economic and financial stability within the eu's internal borders.
in writing. − despite the economic crisis, the eu should continue the enlargement process. this eu policy has proven to be a clearly effective tool in ensuring democracy and stability in the accession countries. just think of the conflicts that have occurred in europe since the treaties of rome were adopted! there is none. and how many of those were in the middle east or africa? however, as is usually the case, enlargement policy will not be complete without some minor reforms. given the ever-changing internal environment of the eu, it is necessary to consider social and economic indicators and to give a voice to civil society in the enlargement process. i therefore agree that the european union, as an area of free movement of persons, goods, services and capital, should pay greater attention to the protection of labour rights, overcome the mistrust of candidate countries arising from historical events and ensure clear respect for the rights of ethnic and religious minorities.
in writing. − if you have the geostrategic context, which includes the common foreign and security policy (cfsp) and the csdp, is undergoing significant changes, in particular due to the turmoil in the middle east and north africa, the emergence of new actors on the international scene with regional and even global ambitions, and the reorientation of the priorities of the united states' defence policy towards the asia-pacific region. at the same time, threats and challenges to global security are increasing, whether due to uncertainties linked to the attitude of states and non-state actors (e.g. terrorist organisations) engaged in programmes that dangerously contribute to the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction (including nuclear weapons), to the escalation of local crises in the eu's neighbourhood that have a major impact on the entire region, as is the case now with the syrian conflict, to the difficulties related to the transformation process in the arab countries and its security dimension (libya, sinai), to the development of the pakistan-afghanistan region in terms of the withdrawal of nato military forces, or to the increase of terrorist threats in africa. i am convinced that the union must respond to these threats and challenges by acting in a united and solidarity-based manner among its member states and by using all the means and instruments at its disposal to promote peace and ensure the security of its people.
in writing. − if you have the security of eu member states is indivisible and all european citizens should have the same security guarantees and a uniform level of protection against traditional and unconventional threats. the defence of peace, security, democracy, human rights, the rule of law and freedom in europe, which are essential for the well-being of our citizens, must remain a key objective and responsibility of the european countries and the union. the security challenges of today include a number of complex and changing dangers, such as international terrorism, proliferation of weapons of mass destruction, state fragmentation, stagnant and unending conflicts, organised crime, cyber threats, energy scarcity, environmental degradation and related security risks, natural or man-made disasters, pandemics and many others. security and the fight against international terrorism are considered to be one of the priorities of the union. this is why a common response and a common strategy by all member states is necessary. i believe that it is precisely the gradual definition of a common defence policy, leading to a common defence, that strengthens the european identity and the strategic autonomy of the european union.
in writing. − if you have in today's globalised world, the eu and its member states are highly dependent on a secure cyberspace, the secure use of information and digital technologies and resilient and reliable information services and related infrastructure. information and communication technologies are also used as tools of repression. computer problems, threats and attacks are increasing at a dramatic rate and pose a huge threat to the security, defence, stability and competitiveness of nation-states. most of the most visible and damaging computer incidents today are political in nature. threats to critical infrastructure are increasingly complex and require strong protection. there are many political, legislative and organisational obstacles in the eu and its member states that affect the development of a comprehensive and coherent approach to cyber defence and security. in the sensitive and vulnerable area of cybersecurity, there is a lack of common definitions, standards and common measures. i therefore consider it appropriate to emphasise the need for a global and coordinated approach to these issues at eu level through the development of a comprehensive eu cybersecurity strategy, which should provide a common definition of cybersecurity and defence and what constitutes a defence-related cyberattack. equally important is a common operational vision that would take into account the added value of existing agencies and bodies as well as the best practices of those member states that already have national cybersecurity strategies.
in writing. −cyber space, with almost two billion globally connected users, is not only a space of freedom of expression, but also a sensitive and vulnerable place for nation states and the private sector. the exchange of information and coordination between member states and eu institutions is weak, leaving most perpetrators of cyberattacks that directly threaten national security undetected and unpunished. i therefore share the view that there is a lack of common definitions, standards and common measures in the field of cybersecurity to help us face together the computer problems, threats and attacks that have been increasing rapidly in recent times. for the reasons i have given, i support the report on cybersecurity and defence.
in writing. − if you have in today's globalised world, the european union and its member states are highly dependent on a secure cyberspace, the secure use of information and digital technologies and resilient and reliable information services. cyber threats and attacks are increasing at a dramatic rate and pose a major threat to the security, defence, stability and competitiveness of nation states as well as the private sector. with almost two billion users globally connected, cyberspace has become one of the most powerful and effective means of spreading democratic ideas and organising people who seek to fulfil their aspirations for freedom and to fight dictatorships. therefore, today, most of the most visible and most damaging cyber incidents are politically motivated. unfortunately, there is currently no common definition, norms and common measures. it is therefore necessary to emphasise the need for a global and coordinated approach to cybersecurity-related issues. there are many political, legislative and organisational obstacles within the eu and its member states that complicate the common approach. however, only a common coordinated approach will provide an effective degree of protection.
in writing. − the increased scale of extreme weather events in recent years is causing the global economy, not only developing countries but also the world economy, to face increasing costs, which are the direct costs of reconstruction and aid, but also the indirect costs of insurance, product and service price increases. these phenomena also represent a worsening of the threats to international peace and security of the population. natural disasters caused by climate change are highly destabilising, especially for vulnerable states. populations whose access to drinking water and food is impaired by natural disasters caused by climate change are forced to migrate, placing an undue burden on the economic, social and administrative capacities of either vulnerable regions or poorly functioning states. this is where conflicts and the overall negative impact on security come in. this often leads to conflicts between communities and countries over scarce natural resources. i therefore consider it appropriate to seek to establish such cooperation mechanisms between the eu as a whole and those member states which could in future act in accordance with the provisions of permanent structured cooperation, in order to ensure the consistency of their activities with the eu's comprehensive approach to this issue.
in writing. − the eu and kazakhstan are interested in deepening and broadening their mutual relations, and the people of the eu and kazakhstan should benefit from closer cooperation with each other. the outcome of the new negotiations could provide a comprehensive framework for cooperation based on human and democratic rights, and at the same time provide an opportunity for socioeconomic development and for the necessary political and economic reforms, as social and economic development are closely interlinked. kazakhstan plays a positive role in central asia, strives to develop good neighbourly relations with neighbouring countries, continue regional cooperation and peacefully resolve all bilateral issues. at the same time, kazakhstan was admitted to the venice commission of the council of europe as both sides found common ground on human rights and democracy during the negotiations on the enhanced partnership and cooperation agreement. it is welcome that an open and constructive dialogue on issues of common interest continues between members of the european parliament, officials of kazakhstan, representatives of civil society and ngos.
in writing. − if you have the term 'small-scale fishing' covers fleets, fishing techniques and fisheries that can vary widely from one another and from one member state to another and from one fishing area to another. despite these differences, they share a number of characteristics that make them similar to each other and distinguish them from 'large-scale fishing' involving industrial fishing. as stated in various european parliament resolutions, small-scale fisheries should be treated differently and subject to management regimes or models adapted to their specific characteristics and problems. the european commission's proposals for reform of the common fisheries policy (cfp) do not take adequate account of the specific characteristics of small-scale fisheries. these proposals do not offer an adequate response to the problems currently facing small-scale fisheries. the objectives set for the conservation of resources a need which is not generally called into question, but rather does not complement the definition of economic or social objectives. the socioeconomic dimension of fisheries policy is thus overlooked. this question is particularly relevant for the sector in view of the difficult socio-economic situation in which the small-scale fisheries are found. i believe that the reform of the cfp should pay more attention to small-scale fisheries.
in writing. − council regulation (ec) no 2371/2002 established a community system for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources under the common fisheries policy. the common fisheries policy should ensure that fishing and aquaculture activities contribute to sustainable environmental, economic and social conditions in the long term. it should also contribute to increased productivity, a decent standard of living within the fisheries sector, a stable market, and ensure that resources are available and that supply reaches consumers at reasonable prices. the objectives for fisheries were set in the decision of the conference of the parties to the convention on biological diversity on a strategic plan for biodiversity 2011-2020. the common fisheries policy should ensure consistency with the biodiversity objectives adopted by the european council and the objectives set by the commission, in particular with a view to achieving maximum sustainable yield by 2015. i believe it is important that the management of the cfp is based on the best available scientific advice, broad stakeholder participation and also a long-term perspective.
in writing. − citizens are directly represented at union level by members of the european parliament. political parties at european level contribute to the formation of european political awareness and to the expression of the will of the citizens of the union. at the same time, the president of the european commission is elected by parliament on the basis of a proposal from the european council acting by a qualified majority, which must take account of the result of the elections to the european parliament and must hold appropriate consultations before appointing him. i consider it necessary and important that the european political groups nominate the candidates for the presidency of the commission who will play a leading role in the parliamentary election campaign leading up to the european parliament elections in may 2014. i also believe that it is important to strengthen the political legitimacy of parliament and the commission by linking their election more directly to the wishes of the electorate.
author. - we all know that the iranian regime is not respecting its obligations under international law and the agreements it has signed. the continuing violation of the fundamental rights of the citizens of this country by the state, law enforcement, security and judicial authorities creates an atmosphere of fear and oppression in the country. while critics of the regime are persecuted, harassed, imprisoned and tortured, members of the repressive security forces abuse the privilege of absolute impunity for atrocities committed against the iranian people. the torture of sattar beheshti and the execution of said sediki are proof of this. while the iranian parliament has committed to investigating the death of sattar beheshti in a prison cell, we cannot ignore the fact that dozens of other human rights defenders are in iranian prison cells and are in danger of losing their lives. therefore, we must use all available options, whether sanctions, international diplomacy, or targeted restrictive measures, to stop this brutal repression of the iranian people by the state.
mr president, as we see iran achieve an industrial framework for the execution of people, it seems to me that the story of sattar beheshti is quite clear evidence of that. allow me to quote from his blog: ‘yesterday they threatened me, saying i should tell my mother that she would soon be wearing black clothes if i did not shut up. if you do not shut your big mouth we do whatever we want. you must shut up and should not inform, otherwise you will be strangled anonymously. day and night threatening phone calls do not stop. as an iranian i say i cannot remain silent in the face of these miseries’. unfortunately, we today should pay tribute to these political prisoners and express solidarity with his family, but it seems to me that we need to do more, that we need to act.
for the efd group. long-standing discrimination against the rohingya minority in the ethnic state of burma has escalated into violence between the buddhist and muslim communities. the rohingya have been victims of ethnic unrest and are being driven out of the country with the complicity of local authorities. it is therefore necessary to communicate urgently with the government of burma to take effective action to avert the humanitarian crisis in the region. first, immediate humanitarian aid must be provided to the refugee camps to alleviate the suffering of the refugees. at the same time, we must strongly demand that the burmese government recognize the rohingya population as full citizens of their country with full civil rights, freedom of movement, right to education and work. in return for the financial and material assistance of the european union to burma, we must demand swift and effective action by the burmese executive to immediately improve the living conditions and status of the rohingya community.
for the efd group. libya has gone through a very difficult period in recent years, when the nature of the state administration has changed after a severe civil war, also with material assistance from europe. it is therefore natural that the newly created institutions for the administration of the country do not yet have a coherent system of comprehensive state behaviour. on the other hand, they should be able to deal promptly with the country's most pressing problems. the situation of foreigners in the integration facilities in kufra, benghazi and tripoli has become particularly critical in the country in recent times. the extreme prison conditions to which women and children are also subject, with frequent cases of gender-based and sexual violence, raise legitimate concerns about the inaction of the libyan state authorities. it is therefore our duty to strongly urge libya to swiftly adopt legislation to ensure international human rights and to adjust accordingly the status of migrants in the country so that they are protected from violence, exploitation, threats, intimidation and abuse. i believe that the new libyan administration also understands the seriousness of this problem.
for the efd group. the transfer of competence of the member states in the field of the common commercial policy to the european institutions will require extensive administrative measures both at the level of the european union and at the level of the member states and their trading partners. hundreds of bilateral investment agreements, which were previously concluded by member states under different legal regimes, will need to be gradually converted into the legal system of the european union so as not to change the rights of individual contracting parties. renegotiations of bilateral investment agreements developed or concluded in the past between member states and third countries cannot take place without the direct participation of the original contracting parties and it will therefore be necessary to choose an appropriate procedure in this process in accordance with the wording of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. in doing so, it will also be necessary to take into account the fact that renegotiations will deal with information that is defined as confidential and therefore we must ensure appropriate discretion in the processing of sensitive data also in the new conditions. one of the ways to manage the complex process of transposing bilateral investment agreements under the european union's jurisdiction, both organisationally and technically, is also in the council's position to declare the conferral of implementing powers on the european commission within the meaning of regulation no 182/2011. however, given the scale and complexity of this process, the whole system of work and coordination must be very precisely prepared and worked out.
for the efd group. economic problems caused by the economic crisis in 2009 led to a popular uprising and subsequent ethnic violence in kyrgyzstan. the interim government gradually managed to stabilise the political situation, implement democratic reforms and bring the country to democratic elections. however, the fragile process of democratisation in kyrgyzstan is still threatened by economic instability and imf analyses show that the country will need to be provided with funding to cover a financial deficit of eur 330 million in 2011-12. the european commission proposes that we join the international assistance to kyrgyzstan to support the development of democracy in that country, with a financial contribution of eur 30 million, half of which should be paid in the form of loans and half in the form of grants. if the forecasts of imf experts, who argue that the said financial assistance will allow the country to overcome a short critical period and maintain economic stability, avoid political problems and ethnic violence and also continue to stabilise democratic institutions, are fulfilled, then the said union financial assistance would have fulfilled meaningful objectives. in the long term, however, the european commission would need to monitor closely whether the financial assistance provided is having the expected effect.
we need to add health to age, not just age to our life span. and that goes for women, too, of course. women are living much longer than men, but of course, with that comes our responsibility to ensure that they have good health in this extended age. not only does it need to be a good therapy, but it also needs to be diagnosed early and, thanks to better law enforcement, it needs to be used by women. it is known that in many countries we have cervical cancer prevention available, but not all women are willing to come for a screening. the same is true of mammography tests. we have this screening option covered virtually everywhere in europe, but only 20% of women in this age group use it. what a pity, because many deadly diseases could be prevented.
the completion of the digital single market is a prerequisite for the eu to become the most competitive and dynamic part of the world's economy. however, the current fragmentation of the law discourages consumers and businesses - especially small and medium-sized ones - from participating in cross-border trade, for example. i find it regrettable that there is still very little use of high-speed broadband in the eu, with only 0.9% of connections operating at 100 mbit/s. the digital agenda's target of achieving a 50% share of very high speed internet by 2020 therefore seems to me to be difficult to achieve unless we take concrete and rapid action in the next two years. in conclusion, i fully support the regional and rural development programmes to strengthen and develop digital infrastructure.
the digital revolution we've all been through has fundamentally changed our lives, bringing with it many new forms of commerce, communication and learning. europe is rapidly moving from the industrial age to a global, networked, knowledge and services-based economy. over the last five years, more than 20% of economic growth and 25% of job creation has been driven by the internet economy. however, the digital single market in the european union has not developed to the same extent as in other countries. we have not fully exploited the opportunities of the digital economy. the current legal fragmentation discourages businesses and consumers from participating in cross-border trade. 27 different regimes in areas such as postal services or intellectual property rights. the digital economy can be the key to our development and help businesses find their way out of the crisis. that's why i think it's important to overcome the obstacles that have arisen here. by implementing and adapting existing eu rules, europe can compete on an equal footing in the global market.
the introduction of methicillin-resistant strains of bacteria into a patient who had gone to the hospital as a normal person for routine surgery is a major medical problem. it's very unfortunate that we don't have antibiotics to deal with it. and we know that it takes more than 10 years to develop a new antibiotic from the idea of a new molecule to the marketing of a new drug. we need to do everything we can to make this problem really better. and this is increasing among us, with tb being almost eradicated from the lungs, and many other things being made worse by the massive use of antibiotics in veterinary medicine and in animal production, where farmers are giving antibiotics to animals just to get higher yields. this has to stop, and i'm advocating a powerful and integrated approach now.
in april 1993, the world health organization (who) declared a global emergency for the first time in history. it was tuberculosis. german microbiologist robert koch said: "if the significance of a disease were measured by the number of victims it claims, even the most dreaded infectious diseases, such as plague and cholera, would all be far behind tuberculosis". today, tb kills more people each year than aids, malaria, and tropical diseases combined, at least 300,000 of whom are children. the dynamic development of resistance to current anti-tuberculosis drugs complicates and makes impossible the treatment of this infectious disease. experts estimate that more than 50 million people are now at risk from multidrug-resistant strains of tb bacteria. who forecasts for 2000 to 2020 warn that without improved health care, tb will infect an additional billion people, sicken 200 million, and kill 35 million during that period. i therefore consider it necessary to support the adoption of the resolution on the microbial challenge.
european smes are being hit hard by the global financial crisis. lack of funding limits them to adapt to the challenges, which also prevents them from expanding to markets beyond their own country. smes applying for bank loans are often rejected or are given loans that are much lower than the amount requested. difficulties in accessing capital and lack of information hinder their internationalisation. smes are diverse in nature and therefore increasingly need information to improve their general understanding of their needs in order to support business development. it is well known that smes play a key role in the union's economy, providing two thirds of jobs. they need to find a funding model that will allow them to compete internationally. i appreciate and agree with the european commission's decision to help improve market access for smes operating outside their home member states by creating the cosme programme for 2014-2020, which can help nearly 40 000 enterprises.
as mr zahradil indicated in his opening remarks, we are talking about a very important business group operating in the european union and employing a huge number of our citizens in the european union. we've been putting a lot of paperwork into it and making a lot of resolutions, but the result so far is very weak and, i would say, inadequate. the approach of mr zahradil, who is seeking a comprehensive approach to improving the cross-border activities of these entrepreneurs, should therefore be commended. i think that this is the way to go, because it is in this area of cross-border activity that the reserves are the greatest. in my view, within these activities, there should also be an even greater focus on advising staff organisations, which should provide their members with information on the different rules in other countries within the european union and prepare them to work abroad, where appropriate. perhaps the european union could invest in this too, and help these civil society organisations to set up such information centres to support this activity.
in writing. small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) are rightly called the backbone of the european economy. smes have been hit hardest by the economic and financial crisis. i would like to commend the rapporteur's work and agree with the suggestion that the assistance of the union and the member states is in simplifying access to financial resources for smes. more substantial assistance from member states to smes is expected, in particular in terms of internationalising micro-enterprises on global markets and helping them to access capital more easily. in the context of calls to national governments, the union is expected to play a very important role, in particular in cooperation with sme associations in the european union and chambers of commerce and industry. according to a survey by eurostat last year, the biggest challenges facing smes are finding customers, competition and access to financial resources. the clear need for additional financial resources is particularly evident in my country, slovakia, but additional financial resources are also lacking in other countries, according to the survey.
the rapid development of the digital world has opened up new possibilities for the dissemination of information, which we consider an important asset in a free democratic world. for authoritarian regimes, however, the open, uncensored transmission of information poses a serious complication to their control of society. it is therefore natural to expect that such regimes will attempt, within their regional jurisdiction, to limit the openness of the digital space and to control the flow of information in order to control the society they administer. i have no illusions that we can impose technical embargoes to prevent countries like china from enforcing their internet governance policies. but i think that in foreign policy, we have to first of all influence these regimes, try to convince them that society is supposed to develop freely, and in this way, chinese society will also be freer and safer.
the committee on industry, research and energy is the rapporteur for the opinion. − first of all, i would like to thank the commissioner and my three colleagues for the excellent cooperation and the excellent work they have done on this very important issue. the european union is a fundamentally innovative society where the protection of intellectual property rights is a vital interest. the creation of unitary european patent protection will also contribute to this. the need for european patent reform is not in doubt. for decades, the union has been trying to develop a legal framework that would strengthen, unify and simplify the european patent system. we cannot afford to delay this decision any longer when this eu r & d industry is falling apart from the rest of the world year after year. an intergovernmental agreement between 25 member states could reduce the current cost of protecting inventions by a tenth. this is key to ensuring that smes can access the new system. however, it is not just about reducing the cost of european patents. the single protection scheme will have a positive impact on the business environment and contribute to the completion of the internal market. it can preserve europe's innovative spirit through the eu patent and improve its competitiveness and its global competitiveness. once the system is in place, european businesses will be able to experience its benefits. they will be able to file their patent applications in one place, rather than having to do so separately in each member state. there is no other way out of the crisis than for the eu to compete in the global market with other continents. i am sorry that two member states are not joining, but i hope that this will be settled in the future. the unified european patent court system provides legal certainty through a uniform interpretation of the applicable law. the new patent justice system will benefit in particular smes and smaller market players, in particular researchers and newly established innovative companies. i note that we have not been able to find a common headquarters for it, but i welcome the three-point compromise solution.
we have been trying for several years to adopt a single european patent system that would coexist with the national and european patent systems. the commission has put forward two legislative proposals which, if adopted, will allow any company or individual to protect their inventions through a single european patent. the high cost and complexity of the european patent granting system in several member states are the main reasons that discourage patent holders from seeking pan-european patent protection. for example, the total cost of validating a european patent, which is normally long, is estimated at between eur 22 000 and eur 26 000. the creation of a european patent will help to reduce these costs to eur 680 per patent and will also create more favourable conditions for investment in research and development. the single system for patent protection will bring significant simplification to the system and will enable users to reduce the administrative burden and to reduce the cost of patents in europe by up to 80%, thus improving the functioning and protection of the free movement of goods in the internal market and also providing scope for innovation and entrepreneurship. this will help us to achieve the target of investing in r&d of 3% of gdp as set out in the eu 2020 strategy. it will also bring much needed legal certainty in this area and i would also like to stress that it is very important that parliament, as co-legislator, is fully informed of all aspects of the commission's obligations towards the framers of this regulation.
in writing. we have been trying for years to adopt a single european patent system that would coexist with the national and european patent systems. the commission has put forward two proposals which, if adopted, will allow any company or individual to protect their inventions through a single european patent valid in 25 member states. the high cost and complexity of the european patent system in several countries are the main reasons that discourage patent holders from seeking pan-european patent protection. for example, the total cost of validating a european patent for a long-term use is estimated at between eur 22 000 and eur 26 000 according to the data, companies in the eu member states spend between eur 205 and 230 million each year on translation, validation and professional fees. the creation of a european patent will help to reduce these costs to eur 680 per patent and will also create more favourable conditions for r&d investment, facilitating the achievement of the r&d investment target of 3% of gdp as set out in the eu 2020 strategy. the single system for the protection of patents will bring about a significant simplification of the system. it will enable users to reduce the administrative burden and patent costs in europe by up to 80%, improving the functioning and protection of the free movement of goods in the internal market and providing scope for innovation and entrepreneurship.
in writing. − cooperation with the eu is based on the partnership and cooperation agreement, which entered into force in 1999. the eu grants a generalised system of preferences to the kyrgyz republic. the kyrgyz economy was hit by the international financial crisis in 2009 and by ethnic violence in june 2010, which disrupted economic activities, caused significant public expenditure needs for reconstruction and social assistance, and resulted in substantial gaps in external and budgetary financing. eu political and economic assistance to the nascent parliamentary democracy of the kyrgyz republic will be a political signal of strong eu support for democratic reforms in central asia, in line with the eu's policy towards the region as expressed in the central asia strategy 2007-2013 and in line with the statements of eu leaders. in view of the deteriorating economic situation and outlook, the kyrgyz republic requested macro-financial assistance from the eu in 2010. in order to ensure the effective protection of the financial interests of the union in relation to this type of assistance, i consider it necessary that the kyrgyz republic take appropriate measures in this context to prevent and combat fraud, corruption and other irregularities. at the same time, it is essential that the commission ensures appropriate controls and the court of auditors adequate audits.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 106/2008 of the european parliament and of the council of 15 january 2008 on a community energy-efficiency labelling programme for office equipment implements the energy star programme in the union under the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european community on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment. that agreement expired on 28 december 2011 and the council adopted a decision authorising the commission to negotiate a new five-year agreement with the united states. negotiations on the new agreement were concluded on 29 november last year. a reference to the new agreement should therefore be added. at the same time, i consider it necessary to update the references to the union quality labelling or certification schemes established by directive 2009/125/ec of the european parliament and of the council of 21 october 2009 establishing a framework for the setting of ecodesign requirements for energy-related products, directive 2010/30/eu of the european parliament and of the council of 19 may 2010 on the indication by energy-related products of the consumption of energy and other resources on labels and standard product information and regulation (ec) no 66/2010 of the european parliament and of the council of 25 november 2009 on the eu ecolabel. i think the programme should include consideration of alternative policy options and provide sufficient time to take a qualified decision on a possible extension of the agreement.
in writing. − as with other energy consumers, energy efficiency labelling is also important for office equipment. the joint agreement between the european union and the united states allows for wide use. this regulation implements the energy star programme in the union under the agreement between the government of the united states of america and the european community on the coordination of energy-efficiency labelling programmes for office equipment. the regulation updates previous directives of the parliament and the council on the environmentally friendly design of energy-related products. it will provide a new perspective on the promotion of energy efficiency criteria, the functioning of the energy star board of the european union, the preparatory procedures for the review of technical criteria, and the evaluation and review. it also allows for the operation of other existing and new voluntary energy-efficiency labelling schemes for office equipment in member states in parallel with the energy star programme, so as not to hinder new innovative processes. that's why i voted for this resolution.
in writing. − the internet has already affected the daily lives of europeans in a way similar to the industrial revolutions over the previous centuries. online services are already part of the lives of consumers, businesses and citizens in general. the way consumers compare, buy or sell products and services, search for or provide information, manage their payments or data, inform or educate themselves, make contacts, exchange experiences and use them is not the same as it was decades ago, or even in the recent past. the achievement of a genuine digital single market would allow for the creation of new forms of economic growth. the untapped potential is huge and would benefit all territories and economic sectors of the union. online services, which are essentially borderless, can accelerate european integration and the completion of the single market we have been striving for for over 50 years. however, the digital single market has not yet reached its full potential. a strong european strategy must accompany and accelerate the advent of the digital society and economy, thus meeting citizens' expectations and stimulating new growth with the aim of doubling the share of the internet economy in european gdp and the share of online sales in european retail by 2015. i believe it is important to ensure that no new measure adopted at european level creates new obstacles to the development of online services by taking account of the issues of each new proposal in a timely manner.
in writing. − the completion of the digital market is an important step that can help europe to combat the consequences of the crisis. the potential of the digital market is huge. whether it's creating new jobs, increasing competitiveness or improving consumer comfort. the union's objective is to create a common market without barriers. but that hasn't happened yet in the digital space. europe needs uniform legislation for cross-border online shopping, transparency of member states' tax systems, high protection of electronic payments, cross-border consumer protection and higher quality of postal services. in addition, the deployment of high-speed internet wherever it is lacking is a prerequisite for the expansion of digital commerce. i support any initiative that will lead to an improvement in the current state of the digital market.
in writing. − if you have according to the european commission communication of 9 november 2011 entitled 'small business, big world a new partnership to help small and medium-sized enterprises (smes) seize global opportunities', smes are hereinafter referred to as union enterprises which are independent from larger enterprises and multinational companies and which are characterised by having fewer than 250 employees, an annual turnover of less than eur 50 million and a balance sheet of eur 43 million or less. the european commission estimates that there are some 23 million smes operating in the eu's single market. several factors can be cited to justify the lack of internationalisation of smes. this can be summarised in two key aspects. on the one hand, eu smes face difficulties in obtaining information on foreign markets and trade and investment opportunities abroad, and on the other hand, many smes lack the capital to operate globally, including financing cross-border business activities. i think it is necessary and important to focus our attention on improving the quality of information available to smes and micro-enterprises on financing options and trade financing instruments that exist at national and european level. it is through such assistance that smes and microenterprises can gradually overcome the trade barriers that prevent eu companies from accessing third country markets.
in writing. − the 23 million smes in the eu form the backbone of the union's economy and provide jobs for two thirds of those employed in the private sector. at present, about a quarter of smes are involved in international export activities, but only 13% are active in markets outside europe, due to a lack of awareness of the opportunities and also to insufficient security for their business abroad. i therefore consider it necessary that the eu not only supports but also actively protects its industries, including smes, from breaching the established international trade rules, wto rules. at the same time, we should improve advice at eu and member state level on financing, project design, legal protection of legitimate interests, dispute resolution, and the fight against counterfeiting and misuse of intellectual property. the creation of single business advisory centres at local level to provide information on export and import opportunities is, in my view, a step in the right direction. as the specific proposals in the report on financing of trade and investment by smes are aimed at improving the quality of information available to smes and micro-enterprises, i am voting in favour of the proposal.
in writing. − the internet and new technologies are playing an increasingly important role in the lives of the general public. technologies are changing societies on a global scale, the functioning of our democracies, economies and businesses, development strategies, security and defence concerns, and they also touch on human rights issues. several eu member states have recognised internet access as a fundamental right and the european commission has endorsed the inclusion of digital freedoms among the copenhagen criteria. in a globally interconnected world, i believe it would be appropriate for the eu's external action to include a strategy on how to deal with new technologies. i think it is important that the eu acts as a global player in several areas of this digital world, using its economic and political weight. while excessive regulation would do more harm than good to exploit the potential of the open internet, in some areas it is justified and necessary to update the rules in order to align the revolutionary impact of technological developments with adequate democratic oversight. i am convinced that the union can only fully exploit its strength and become a global player if it brings its trade, security and foreign policies into line and strives to align its values and interests.
in writing. − information and communication technologies are constantly evolving. the internet, which can be seen as the main representative of these technologies, presents two faces to the world. on the one hand, it's a positive tool. in many parts of the world, the internet is a space for the exercise of many fundamental rights, such as free access to information, freedom of expression, freedom of the press, freedom of assembly, a space for economic, social, political and cultural development and, last but not least, a factor in the development of international trade. unfortunately, the other side of information and communication technology is negative. there are countries where the internet serves as a tool to suppress, censor, control, monitor and search not only information but also specific people. the eu is the world's largest trading bloc, but it is also a community of values. they should also form the basis of the eu's external policy. the european union can harness this potential and lead by example in promoting and protecting digital freedoms worldwide, for example by including in its external policy development programmes aimed at protecting these freedoms or by prohibiting the trade in technologies that are designed to target human rights violations. pointing out both sides of ict is extremely important. taking them into account in the formulation of eu external policy is very important and this report was therefore well placed to support them.
in writing. − since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, foreign direct investment has been included in the list of matters falling within the scope of the common commercial policy. at the time of the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the member states of the union had a considerable number of bilateral agreements with third countries concerning investments. the treaty does not contain any express transitional provisions concerning such agreements, which are now subject to the exclusive competence of the union. in the interest of eu investors and their investments in third countries, as well as of the member states hosting foreign investors and investments, bilateral agreements specifying and guaranteeing the conditions for investment should be maintained. i am convinced that the european parliament, the council and the commission should ensure that any information identified as confidential is treated in accordance with regulation (ec) no 1049/2001 of the european parliament and of the council of 30 may 2001 regarding public access to european parliament, council and commission documents. i consider it necessary to ensure that agreements maintained under this regulation continue to be applicable.
in writing. − relations between georgia and the european union are developing within the framework of the european neighbourhood policy. in 2006, the eu and georgia agreed on a european neighbourhood policy action plan, which identified medium-term priorities in eu-georgia relations. the eu and georgia began negotiations in 2010 on an association agreement, which is expected to replace the existing partnership and cooperation agreement. the framework for eu-georgia relations is further extended by the recently launched eastern partnership initiative. the georgian economy has been affected by the international financial crisis since the third quarter of 2008, which has been manifested by a decline in output, declining budget revenues and growing external financing needs. in view of the deteriorating economic situation and outlook, georgia has requested macro-financial assistance from the european union. it should not only complement programmes and resources from the imf and the world bank, but also provide added value to the union's involvement. in order to ensure effective protection of the european union's financial interests linked to this macro-financial assistance, it is necessary that georgia takes appropriate measures to prevent and combat fraud, corruption and any other irregularities linked to this assistance. i also consider it essential that the commission ensures appropriate controls and the european court of auditors adequate audits.
in writing. − regulation (ec) no 1406/2002 of the european parliament and of the council of 27 june 2002 established the european maritime safety agency to ensure a high, uniform and effective level of maritime safety and to prevent pollution from ships. the agency should act in the interest of the union. this should include the possibility for the agency to act outside the eu in its field of competence. the agency has established itself as a trusted provider of eu-level maritime transport data that is of interest and importance to other eu activities. by these activities, which concern in particular port state control, maritime traffic and shipping monitoring and assistance in tracing potential polluters, the commission should contribute to strengthening synergies at eu level with regard to certain coast guard operations. in addition, the monitoring and data collection by the agency should also gather basic information on potential threats to maritime transport and the marine environment arising from offshore oil and gas exploration and production. in order to achieve those objectives, i am convinced that the regulation in question should be amended accordingly.
in writing. − the unitary patent protection should support scientific and technical progress and the functioning of the internal market by making access to the patent system easier, less costly and providing legal certainty. it should improve the level of patent protection by providing for the possibility of obtaining the same patent protection in the territory of the participating member states and by removing costs and burdens for undertakings throughout the union. it should be available to patent applicants from participating member states and other countries, irrespective of their nationality, residence or place of establishment. the main feature of european patents with unitary effect should be their unitary character, i.e. they should provide uniform protection and have the same effect in all the participating member states. therefore, a european patent with unitary effect should be limited, licensed, transferred, revoked or extinguished only in respect of all the participating member states. since the objective of this regulation, in particular the creation of unitary patent protection, can be better achieved at union level, the union may adopt measures, where appropriate, by means of enhanced cooperation, in accordance with the principle of subsidiarity as set out in article 5 of the treaty on european union. in accordance with the principle of proportionality, as set out in that article, this regulation does not go beyond what is necessary in order to achieve that objective.
in writing. − i support the creation of a single european patent for two reasons. it is in the interests of europe's future that the eu should be able to provide effective protection for new technologies. patents are a motivation for research, and without research, you cannot build a knowledge economy. patent protection in europe today is too complicated. but perhaps even worse, the administrative costs of patent protection are too high. i understand the concerns of some citizens and organisations about the introduction of a unitary patent. i think, however, that the rapporteurs have done everything possible to ensure that these concerns are not justified.
in writing. − in the european union today, patent protection can be obtained either through the national patent offices of the member states that grant national patents or through the european patent office (epo) under the european patent convention (epc). the european patent must be validated immediately after the grant of the epc in each member state where protection is sought. for the validation of a european patent in the territory of a member state, national legislation may, inter alia, require the proprietor of patent rights to submit a translation of the european patent into an official language of that member state. the current patent system in the eu is therefore very costly and complex, especially in terms of translation requirements. despite the general recognition that european enterprises suffer from a competitive disadvantage due to the absence of unitary patent protection, the union has not yet succeeded in establishing unitary patent protection. but it certainly has its justification and its importance, and i think that a unified system of jurisdiction should be established alongside the creation of unitary patent protection.
in writing. − knowledge and innovation play a key role in our future and it is therefore essential that the decision on a single eu patent valid in the 25 member states of the european union is based on interinstitutional cooperation and is based on uniformity and transparency for the users of the system. smes are at the heart of the european economy. therefore, in order to avoid persistent obstacles and subsequent consideration of the international expansion of smes, it is necessary to provide for a system that is legally unambiguous and affordable in terms of the costs associated with its validation and subsequent maintenance. after previous debates on the seat of the epo, we have solved the problem of the need to translate patents into all the languages of the member states. i believe that a single system of jurisdiction will facilitate the administration of justice in individual disputes. nevertheless, it is necessary to ensure its compatibility with european law and to ensure that the objections raised by the european court of justice to the legitimacy of this newly created judicial body are answered. that is why i am in favour of the additional and separate ratification of the agreement on the system of jurisdiction by each member state and i believe that this compromise will avoid any objections on their part and will speed up the entry into force of the unified patent regulations.
in writing. − an efficient patent system in europe can contribute to achieving growth through innovation in particular. european businesses, in particular smes, need such tools to combat the current economic crisis and to remain competitive on a global scale. the current patent system in europe allows the industrial property offices of the member states to grant national patents and the european patent office to grant european patents. once a patent has been granted, the european patent is divided into a series of national patents, which are governed by national law. the system is very costly and subject to a very expensive and risky multi-court dispute settlement system, which often leads to conflicting judgments. the proposals on unitary patent protection and the language regime, which are currently under legislative review by the parliament and the council, aim to abolish the current fragmented patent system. after many decades of failed attempts, a genuine single patent market is now within reach, capable of providing legal certainty and being internationally competitive. i therefore believe that parliament should support the proposed system of jurisdiction for patent disputes.
in writing. − in april 2007, the council authorised the commission to open negotiations with certain central american countries. the negotiations resulted in an eu-central america association agreement. the agreement includes a bilateral safeguard clause allowing the reintroduction of a duty rate under the most-favoured-nation clause if, as a result of the liberalisation of trade resulting from this agreement, imports are made in such increased quantities and under such conditions as to cause or threaten to cause serious injury to union producers of like or competing products. the agreement also provides for a stabilisation mechanism for bananas under which the application of preferential duties may be suspended when a certain annual import volume is reached and which is applicable until 1 january 2020. both measures need to be transposed into eu law in order to become applicable. from a procedural point of view, safeguard clauses agreed with third countries and regions since the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon are subject to the ordinary legislative procedure.
in writing. − the eu-central america association agreement sets an important precedent in that it is the first bi-regional association agreement signed by the eu after the entry into force of the lisbon treaty. the key objectives of the eu-latin america bi-regional strategic partnership are regional, social, economic and cultural integration, which are underpinned by the sub-regional and bilateral association agreements concluded. in order to ensure that the development of the eu-latin america partnership benefits both parties and everyone, i believe it is necessary and important to take into account the respect for the principles of democracy, the rule of law and full respect for the human rights of all citizens as an essential element of political dialogue. i am of the opinion that the association agreement in question contributes effectively and efficiently to the efforts towards regional, social and political integration and to the achievement of the fundamental objective of a bi-regional strategic partnership between the eu and latin america.
in writing. − if you have on 19 january 2009, the council authorised the commission to open trade negotiations with the andean community member states, which eventually resulted in a trade agreement with colombia and peru. it provides, inter alia, for the reduction and ultimately the elimination of customs duties in bilateral trade between the partners. it also contains a safeguard clause which allows tariff preferences to be suspended or removed if such trade liberalisation leads to an unexpected increase in imports, which causes a deterioration in the position of european industry in competition with such imports and thereby threatens employment in the eu. the objective of the bilateral safeguard instrument is to provide a safety net where the industry needs time to adapt to new conditions as a result of the trade liberalisation provided for in the free trade agreement. the instrument will therefore only be applicable for a temporary period of 10 years from the entry into force of the agreement or slightly longer for products which have been liberalised for more than 10 years. in order to be effective, safeguard measures need to be incorporated into eu law.
in writing. − the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, is part of the long-term relationship between the eu and the andean community. the substance of the agreement is economic, but it also contains an enforceable human rights clause and a chapter on sustainable development, covering the ilo's main labour standards and international environmental protection agreements. it will give eu companies access to relatively small but growing markets. it can also be seen as a springboard for closer relations, especially trade, with central and latin america. the agreement represents an opportunity to provide a firm foundation for colombia and peru's reforms aimed at integrating into the global economy, increasing prosperity and consolidating their growth in order to improve the living conditions of their people. i think the european parliament should give its consent to its closure.
in writing. − the trade agreement between the european union and its member states, on the one hand, and colombia and peru, on the other, is part of the long-term relationship between the eu and the andean community (can). in 2007, negotiations were launched to conclude an interregional association agreement. disagreements between the andean countries on the approach to a number of key trade issues to be covered by the proposed agreement unfortunately led to the breakdown of the talks in june 2008. new negotiations, this time with colombia and peru only, were launched in january 2009 and successfully concluded in may 2010. on the issues of the new trade agreement, our political group has always supported and promoted its human and environmental dimension. we all know how important, for example, the rights of workers and the related rules on safety at work are. the november tragedy at a bangladeshi clothing factory is proof of that. the agreement will give eu companies access to relatively small but emerging markets. trade between the eu and colombia and peru increased by 10% between 2006 and 2010. the agreement represents an opportunity to improve trade relations with central america.
in writing. − although women live longer on average, they have a much higher incidence of various diseases, such as osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis, stroke, urinary incontinence and cancer, than men. cancer is currently the most common cause of death among older women in the eu. the incidence of disease increases rapidly with age. if we want to age well and actively, we must focus on prevention and information. it is the lack of them that causes the under-utilisation of existing opportunities. ageing is a very difficult time for women. we are experiencing dramatic changes, our social and work roles are changing, and physical changes are often very difficult to accept. older women are a specific and particularly vulnerable group in the eu population. they need to be given proper attention and care. clinical research should be more gender-sensitive. our policies must focus on promoting good habits and thus supporting a healthy and active ageing of the european population.
in writing. − older women are often discriminated against because of their age, gender and ethnicity, and women from low socioeconomic backgrounds face many difficulties. as women are paid less than men, gender income inequality results in women receiving lower pensions and living below the poverty line. because of their precarious economic situation, they cannot afford to pay for their health care, including prevention of illness or medical treatment. women are more exposed to chronic and disabling diseases that alter their quality of life. the main causes of death among older women are cardiovascular, respiratory and cancer. unfortunately, in many cases, access to health care is not as smooth as it should be. there's a long waiting list for the specialist and the diagnostic tests. either the patient gets there too late, or the long wait means he never gets there. in many cases, the quality of healthcare and information campaigns on prevention, treatment options and treatment of specific diseases are inadequate. i support initiatives aimed at more effective disease prevention and improving the health of the elderly. it is important that people become aware of what they can do to prevent disease in their own interests, including the importance of proper nutrition and exercise.
in writing. − prevention and early diagnosis extend life expectancy and contribute to reducing healthcare costs. preventive measures should therefore be a priority of health care. particular attention must be paid to people living in regions, and in particular in rural areas, where healthcare is less accessible than in urban areas, as well as to disadvantaged groups who often lack access to adequate healthcare. for example, women approaching menopause should have access to mammography screening, which could reduce the mortality rate of women with breast cancer by up to 30%. i believe that the eu and its member states must systematically increase the health literacy of their citizens so that they can make informed decisions and actively prevent disease themselves. awareness raising should address the most common diseases, for example through public campaigns in the media focusing on prevention, early diagnosis and treatment.
in writing. − despite the fact that women live longer than men, their health is much worse than that of men of the same age. whether it is musculoskeletal, cardiovascular, respiratory, diabetes, or cancer, women are the clear victims of age-related diseases. our task is therefore to propose a series of measures at national and european level to ensure that women live a full and dignified life in old age. the year 2012 was dedicated to the elderly. active ageing and intergenerational solidarity were the slogans that were supposed to draw the public's attention to the needs and shortcomings of the older generation. health is the most important premise, without which it is impossible to speak of the values that underlie significant active ageing. only a healthy person can actively participate in society, continue to educate himself or herself, or participate in intergenerational exchanges of knowledge or experiences acquired during life. i believe that the measures proposed will also help women to overcome the crisis of old age and reduce the number of elderly women suffering from depression or loss of self-esteem. it is also necessary to bear in mind that with the ever-increasing retirement age, older people are constantly exposed to the need to maintain a stable state of health. it is not without reason that the saying is true: "in a healthy body, a healthy spirit".
in writing. − the health of citizens is the greatest value and source of wealth of any society, which must be protected and developed. i welcome all the procedures and results that have been achieved so far within the union and the member states in line with the document entitled 'health for all in the 21st century' adopted by the world health organisation. i fully endorse the report on the prevention of age-related diseases in women, which is why i voted for it. this does not mean, however, that we can be satisfied with the current state of and access to preventive health care and medical care. it is well known that women use healthcare more often than men. however, women's health is determined by some specific factors that differentiate them from men. however, despite this fact, equality and solidarity of citizens must be the fundamental principles of the union in health protection and the provision of health and medical care. i expect that the resolutions adopted on the prevention of age-related diseases in women will be incorporated in the most concrete ways possible into the health development programmes and activities of each member state, region, because prevention is better than cure, because where there is no health, there is no everything.
in writing. − the eu population is ageing. people are living longer and longer. programmes initiated within the eu aim to promote healthy ageing, mainly through access to quality healthcare and preventive measures. the better these facilities are, the longer the elderly will be able to remain independent. this report focuses on women, taking into account the fact that women are more represented among the elderly. the second factor is that each sex is subject to specific diseases and health risks that need to be taken into account in studies and subsequent health policies. among the diseases that primarily affect older women are cardiovascular and respiratory diseases and cancer, which is the most common cause of death in older women. the report also mentions other diseases, such as dementia, alzheimer's disease, and depression. it is regrettable that 97% of the health budget is allocated to the treatment of noncommunicable diseases and only 3% is allocated to prevention. the rapporteur rightly points out that the cost of treating the consequences is substantially higher than that of prevention. it calls on member states to include more preventive measures in their health budgets in the future. prevention should include training in how to eat healthier, how to incorporate exercise into a sedentary lifestyle, and so on.
in writing. − the discovery of antimicrobials has led to a significant reduction in mortality rates for a number of serious and often fatal bacterial infections and has enabled innovative invasive surgical procedures that are now widely used. but this extraordinary medical progress is gradually being threatened by the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance. the list of multidrug-resistant infections is long and includes, among others, urinary tract infections, pneumonia and tuberculosis. not only are the costs of the drugs needed to treat cases of resistance often high, but the treatment itself is longer and more complex. in the coming years, we can expect a considerable increase in these figures. moreover, modern medical practices accelerate the development of drug-resistant organisms, mainly through improper use, including overdosing and irresponsible use and failure to complete the course of treatment as prescribed by the doctor. the consequences are alarming. antimicrobials, which require tens of millions of eur in science and research and take almost a decade to bring to market, tend to have an increasingly shorter lifespan during which they are effective. according to the who, there is a threat that we will enter a 'pre-antibiotic era' because of antimicrobial resistance. this is a global problem that needs to be addressed responsibly. i am therefore convinced that the union must act vigorously and decisively in this matter.
in writing. − antimicrobial resistance is the ability of microbial organisms to thrive and survive in the presence of antimicrobials, usually at a sufficient dose to suppress or kill microorganisms of the same species. since the discovery of penicillin in 1930, antimicrobials have revolutionized human and veterinary medicine, leading to a significant reduction in mortality rates for a number of serious and often fatal bacterial infections, and paving the way for innovative invasive surgeries used on a large scale. however, the extraordinary medical advances of the antibiotic era are gradually being threatened by the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance. according to the world health organisation (who), there are at least 440 000 individual cases of multidrug-resistant tuberculosis worldwide, resulting in more than 150 000 deaths per year. too much use has caused antimicrobials to lose their effectiveness and bacteria to become resistant to them, so that, for example, drugs for disease do not work. it is therefore necessary to start using them more carefully in both human and veterinary medicine, and we have also used natural remedies for diseases.
in writing. − last year, the european parliament addressed the issue of bacterial resistance in animals due to overuse of antibiotics. the resolution aimed to monitor the emergence of resistant bacteria and prevent the sale of affected products. i'm glad that in a year, we've moved from monitoring to the root of the problem. and the reason is that antibiotics are given to animals as a preventative measure to make more money. i support the classification of medicated feedingstuffs as 'medicines' and not as 'feedingstuffs'. the administration of such feedingstuffs would be subject to medical prescription. as a doctor, i'm aware of the dangers of giving antibiotics as a precaution. we're creating resistant bacteria that no treatment can cure. animal products then pass through to humans. i also support prevention and awareness-raising among the union's population and the prescription-only initiative. self-treatment of viral diseases with antibiotics, which is unnecessary and increases bacterial resistance, should be avoided. it is also important to explain to people that they should follow the dosage prescribed by their doctor and not stop treatment on their own. i expect the commission to monitor developments in this area and to report on the application of the adopted rules.
the daphne and erasmus programmes are very important. daphne helps to combat violence against women, adolescents and children in the union. this is especially important in times of economic crisis. the results of the daphne programme are undeniable, as is its impact on policy change in the member states. erasmus is the best investment in building a united europe, because it gives thousands of young people the opportunity to get to know other member states, their culture and language, while receiving a quality education. i am therefore very pleased that parliament insists on maintaining the funding of both programmes at the original level. i also want to say that i reject the budgetary populism of some member states which does not address the real problem of excessive public expenditure in the european union.
in writing. in the 2013 budget, the council is adamant that the level of payments is eur 5 billion below the needs estimates made by the commission. this level of appropriations will not be sufficient to cover the actual payment needs in the following year. the costs of non-agreement would have much more serious consequences and a much more negative impact on the implementation of union actions and programmes. that's why i'm voting for a compromise budget. the commission shall submit monthly reports to the parliament and the council on the development of member states' applications for each member state and fund. in the event of a shortage of resources, member states must provide the union with the necessary additional resources for the following year to enable it to pay its bills and maintain its credibility and solvency. all these problems show that the only way out of this impasse, which makes budgetary negotiations more difficult every year, is to resolve the question of union financing quickly and responsibly through a genuine system of own resources, which should come into effect from the new multiannual financial framework and which would eliminate forever the eu's division into net contributors and net beneficiaries.
the financial transaction tax was to be a significant own resource of the budget of the european union. it will not, because the enhanced cooperation method has been chosen in the face of opposition from some member states. the swedish experience tells us clearly what happens next. most trading on exchanges in the states that sign up to this cooperation will end. they're moving elsewhere, probably to london. we're replacing the political courage needed to refuse to finance the banks' losses with an absurd gesture. it's like we're telling the citizens: "the banks have behaved like irresponsible players, so now we're going to tax their business, and you're going to pay the tax in the end". and that, unfortunately, i cannot agree with.
the reporter. − the report on the respect of fundamental rights in the european union for 2010 2011 was two years in the making and was a report where we really worked very closely together at shadow rapporteur level, to whom i would like to express my sincere thanks. if you will allow me, i will speak about some of the measures which i consider to be particularly important at this time of crisis - at a time of economic and social crisis, when the report on fundamental rights in the european union is intended to be proof that the european parliament, although it cannot ensure that the wages of the citizens of the member states are increased, cannot ensure that unemployment in the member states is eliminated, but is prepared to fight for the respect of fundamental rights in the member states. article 2 of the treaty on european union establishes the union as a community of indivisible and universal values in human dignity, freedom, democracy, gender equality, non-discrimination, solidarity, the rule of law and respect for human rights and civil liberties for all persons residing in the territory of the european union, including persons belonging to minorities, stateless persons and persons temporarily present in the territory of the european union. these values are common to the member states in a society that promotes pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice and equality between women and men. respect for and promotion of these values is therefore also an essential element of the european union's identity, a condition for gaining membership of the european union and for the full preservation of member states' rights. with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon, the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, on the basis of article 6 of the treaty on european union, has the same legal value as the treaty of lisbon and has become legally binding on the institutions, bodies, offices and agencies of the european union, as well as on the member states when they implement the law of the european union. the charter has transformed values and principles into tangible and enforceable rights. the effective protection and enforcement of rights must therefore be the overall objective of all european union policies, including their external dimension. and since compliance with the obligation to protect, promote and fulfil rights does not require new competences for the european union, but rather proactive institutional commitment in the field of human rights, a genuine culture of fundamental rights needs to be developed and strengthened in the union institutions and in the member states. the european union must promote a coherent human rights policy and a mechanism that brings together the various fundamental rights actors within the structure of the european union. ladies and gentlemen, citizens can only enjoy their rights fully if fundamental values and principles such as the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, media freedom and non-discrimination are respected. however, the gap between fundamental rights and their implementation weakens the credibility of the european union and its member states. the effective protection and promotion of fundamental rights require that member states, in a spirit of solidarity and sincere cooperation with other member states, accept the control of the european union's respect for the values of the european union in legislative policies and practice. the commission shall adopt implementing acts. article 2 of the treaty on european union gives the institutions of the european union the power to assess whether there is a breach in the member states of common values such as respect for human rights, democracy and the rule of law. it also allows for political intervention in the countries concerned to prevent and remedy such breaches. it is therefore our duty to demand that these objectives be implemented. the current economic and social crisis, and in particular its effects, threaten the principle of solidarity, which is an important part of the history and identity of the european union, and the fundamental bond that binds the citizens of the european union together as members of one political community. i therefore ask you, even in this debate, despite the late hour, to support this very important report as a message to the citizens of the member states of the european union in the vote tomorrow.
the draft resolution on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union for 2010-11, submitted to the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs, contains a wide range of proposals and recommendations for the commission, the council and the member states. in addition to general recommendations, ms monika flašíková-beňová's report also focused on recommendations aimed at eliminating discrimination from our society, protecting individuals belonging to minority groups, access to equal opportunities regardless of age, gender or disability, the problems of migrants and refugees, protecting the rights of children or victims of crime, with an emphasis on improving access to justice, as well as the general status of citizens in the union and the handling of their data by the institution. perhaps it is the breadth and detail of the proposed resolution which, in view of the different cultural and civilizational traditions of the european peoples, creates some room for polemic over certain formulations. although the report presented is based entirely on existing european legislation on fundamental rights, each of us will be able to decide for ourselves in the end to what extent it conforms to the proposed text of the resolution as a whole.
i have some important comments to make on mrs flaschek-bein's report. ms flašíková-beňová is calling into question the independence of the judiciary, seeking to interfere with the competences of nation states and introducing rights that cannot be considered fundamental even with the best of intentions. the application of human rights is the competence of the courts. the so-called interim evaluation of the judiciary would lead to the marking of judicial decisions by non-profit organisations and other institutions. i'm asking, on what grounds? only on the basis of their own interpretation of the law. the rapporteur is proud that her report addresses for the first time the topics of reproductive health, sexual education, planned parenthood and the application of legal abortion legislation. but these issues are the exclusive competence of the member states. the fundamental rights agenda of the european union does not include the requirement to introduce same-sex marriage. and the right to euthanasia is neither a fundamental, nor a european, nor a universal human right. the charter of fundamental rights of the european union, which is mentioned here repeatedly, does not contain these rights. on the contrary, my proposal to include a paragraph on poverty as an obstacle to the enjoyment of fundamental rights in the report was rejected by the rapporteur. let me conclude with one final remark. in the media, the reporter did not hesitate to label people as bigots and backward just because they are catholics and do not share her views. her report calls for the prosecution of hate speech. if she's serious, she should change her vocabulary or risk prosecution herself. (the president agreed to answer the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure)).
the rapporteur, question "carton bleu" is not a question of the commission. - i would like to ask ms záborska if she could quote a specific amendment or part of the report that talks about the obligation for member states to introduce legislation for lgbt marriages. if you could quote specifically where in the report it says that.
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. i think that if the report implied an obligation, that would be crossing any boundaries. the report should not even touch on this at the level of recommendations, especially the report which is an evaluation, because this is really a matter for the member states.
mr. president, the officer's wife. i think that mrs beňová deserves credit for the work she has put into this report, and that is true even if we disagree with a lot of everything that is in the report. the situation of fundamental rights in the union is not often discussed, and if it is, it is often not the charter of fundamental rights and its practical application but different political considerations that give rise to different real or alleged cases of violation of fundamental rights. this report is a good opportunity to take stock of the situation in the union and, let us admit, there are many positive steps but also many problems within the union. for example, to mention just one, progress would be needed in terms of the legal status of indigenous minorities, because there is a double standard in terms of expectations towards the acceding country and the member states. just as a european strategy on the roma issue was adopted, a system of standards on the status of traditional minorities is needed, as some member states often refer to non-existent european standards. sweeping the problems under the carpet is not a good strategy, because it does not reduce tensions. there are good and bad examples all over europe, and it is unacceptable that current policy problems should prevent us from finding solutions to real problems. it is a pity that this report has been partly held hostage to current politics, and that it does not address a number of fundamental rights that are not without problems, such as the right to free movement, the right to property or the right to an effective remedy. i believe that with the nobel peace prize, respect for fundamental rights can be considered as the minimum without which the european union cannot fulfil its mission.
the reporter. - if i were to be honest, after this debate i would have to say, with the possible exception of two colleagues, that i feel a great deal of support in the european parliament's plenary, because the ppe here has shown that they value my work and that my report is good. and then there were reservations from the epp members about what the epp wanted changed in my report. and i'll talk about specific examples. mr pirker says that we have not named any particular state and we have not blamed any particular state for failing to respect fundamental rights. kinga gál, your request was 'no naming and shaming', that is, not to name and criticize any member state. it is precisely because we wanted a broad support in the european parliament for this very important report that we have complied with you. there was some additional information from mr. coelho, mrs. bauer, about things that they may not agree with. but none of this ever came up in the shadow intelligence briefing. i have been absolutely transparent throughout the process of adopting this report and i want to make it very clear to this house that we have done nothing that we have not agreed on beforehand. consequently, on wednesday last week, the epp decided to table its own alternative resolution. so it is not the socialists and democrats, not alde, not the verts/ale, not the gue, but the ppe and some of their members who have ideologised this whole report, unfortunately. and i really cannot imagine, ladies and gentlemen, that the day after we are due to vote on the report on respect for fundamental rights in the european union, where the ppe is putting forward its own five-point alternative resolution after two years of work on this report, we are to vote on respect for fundamental rights in the world. what right does the european union have to criticise the respect for fundamental rights in the world at a time when we are unable to adopt a resolution on the respect for fundamental rights in the member states of the european union?
in writing. it would be a positive thing to have a report on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union. it's a significant shortfall. looking back at the history of integration, this is a significant step forward. i was saddened to see that many political groups and colleagues shared the same view on the protection of fundamental rights. again, they want to interpret fundamental rights differently in line with the rights of eu citizens, even though they should be the same everywhere. the text of the report also touches on areas that fall within the competence of member states and go against the christian, conservative values represented by the people's party. that is why i do not agree with the spirit of the report and could not vote for it. the draft resolution of the epp group could have corrected these elements, but unfortunately it was rejected by the parliament. however, i would point out that the points in the report concerning the protection of persons belonging to linguistic and ethnic minorities, in particular through the amendments to it, set out expectations towards the member states and the eu institutions which can be expected and required to be met. the eu's policies do not contain standards on minority rights, even though minority rights are an integral part of fundamental human rights. the european parliament recognises this shortfall and calls on the commission to act. the importance of respecting the rights of persons belonging to national minorities cannot be overemphasised.
in writing. − draft amending budget no 6/2012 to the general budget for 2012 includes, inter alia, an update of the revenue estimate following the latest revision of the estimates of own resources and other revenue and an increase of almost eur 9 billion in payment appropriations in heads 1a, 1b, 2, 3a and 4 of the multiannual financial framework to cover the remaining needs by the end of the year. at the same time, other payment needs have already been partially addressed through a global transfer of payment appropriations (dec 30/2012) totalling eur 419,7 million. the fluctuations in own resources, together with a significant increase in revenue from fines and interest payments of eur 3 525 million, result in a total net increase in revenue of eur 3 080,8 million. the parliament and council delegations agreed during the budgetary trilogue of 29 november 2012 on a revised amount of these needs to be financed in 2012. at the same time, the declaration of payments to be made in 2012 must be understood as a political agreement on the need to reach an agreement in 2013 at an early stage on an amending budget devoted exclusively to the inclusion of those eur 2,9 billion and to the provision of additional appropriations compared to the payment appropriations approved in the original 2013 budget, without prejudice to the proper implementation of the 2013 budget.
in writing. −the agreed draft package, following numerous negotiations between parliament and the council in the trilogue of 29 november 2012, consists of three elements: amending budget no 6/2012 of eur 6 billion, partially covering the deficit of payment appropriations until 31 october 2012, the union budget for 2013 set at eur 150 898,391 million for commitment appropriations and eur 132 836,988 million for payment appropriations, and three joint declarations guaranteeing that the actual payment needs for 2012 and 2013 will be adequately covered. the agreed level of commitment appropriations represents an increase of eur 1.1 billion compared to the original reading in the council. it is encouraging that the bulk of the political priorities are secured in next year's budget, with a particular focus on the eu's commitments to growth and jobs in line with the europe 2020 strategy. in my view, the joint statements by parliament, the council and the commission are of immense importance. it is necessary to ensure that they are respected, and it is equally important that the member states provide the union with the necessary additional resources for the coming year to enable it to pay its bills and maintain its institutional credibility and solvency.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. italy has submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in ten enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 30 (manufacture of other transport equipment) in the nuts ii region of emilia-romagna (ith5) in italy. the last additional data to the application were submitted on 10 september 2012. the application submitted complies with the requirements for establishing the financial contributions referred to in article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposes to release an amount of eur 2 658 495. i therefore consider that the egf should be mobilised in order to provide a financial contribution for the application submitted by italy.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. sweden submitted an application on 25 may 2012 to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in saab automobile sa, one of its subsidiaries and 16 of its suppliers, and supplemented it by additional information up to 20 august 2012. this application complies with the requirements for establishing financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposes to make available eur 5 454 560. i consider it justified to comply with sweden's requests to provide the funds.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. its scope was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis for applications submitted from 1 may 2009 to 30 december 2011. on 28 december 2011, spain submitted an application to mobilise the egf in respect of redundancies in 423 enterprises operating in the nace revision 2 division 25 ('manufacture of finished metal products other than machinery') in the nuts ii region of país vasco (es21) and supplemented it by additional information up to 5 september 2012. as the application submitted meets the requirements for establishing the financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, i support the commission's proposal to make available an amount of eur 1 299 545.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. its scope was extended to include support for workers made redundant as a direct result of the global financial and economic crisis for applications submitted from 1 may 2009 to 30 december 2011. denmark submitted a request for redundancies in flextronics international denmark a/s on 21 december 2011 and supplemented it by additional information by 23 august 2012. this application complies with the requirements for determining the financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposes to make available eur 1 370 910. i am of the opinion that the requests should be granted.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. on 22 december 2011, romania submitted an application to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in sc nokia romania srl and in respect of one supplier, and supplemented it by additional information up to 22 august 2012. this application complies with the requirements for establishing financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposes to make available eur 2 942 680. it is appropriate to make a financial contribution in respect of the request made by romania.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. on 21 december 2011, austria submitted an application to mobilise the egf, following redundancies in 105 enterprises operating in the region of styria (at22) at nuts ii level, whose activity falls within the nace revision 2 division 88 ('social work without accommodation') and supplemented it by additional information up to 25 june 2012. since the application complies with the requirements for establishing the financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006, the commission proposes to mobilise eur 5 200 650.
in writing. − the european globalisation adjustment fund (egf) was established to provide additional support for workers made redundant as a result of major structural changes in world trade patterns caused by globalisation and to assist them with their reintegration into the labour market. the interinstitutional agreement of 17 may 2006 allows the mobilisation of the egf within the annual ceiling of eur 500 million. finland submitted an application on 4 july 2012 to mobilise the egf, in respect of redundancies in nokia plc (salo) and supplemented it by additional information up to 21 august 2012. this application complies with the requirements for establishing financial contributions under article 10 of regulation (ec) no 1927/2006. the commission therefore proposes to make available eur 5 346 000. considers it justified to mobilise the egf in the foreseeable future and to grant the requests of finland.
in writing. − if you have the lack of comparable information on crime at eu level was highlighted by the european council in the hague programme in 2005. in response, the commission established an action plan for 2006-2010 to improve the methods of compiling crime statistics, which also included the development of an eu household survey on victimization due to crime. the stockholm programme (2009) highlighted the need to follow up by adopting concrete measures aimed at practical implementation. consequently, it is proposed to carry out an eu-wide survey in 2013 based on a methodology agreed with stakeholders. common pan-european statistics are an important basis for the development of eu policies. this is even more so in the area of criminal law, which is a field of mixed jurisdiction and in which the eu is bound by the principle of subsidiarity, because criminal law is linked to the understanding of fundamental rights in a free society. i therefore believe that the appropriate and necessary eu instruments in this area should only be developed and adopted on the basis of sound and comprehensive common statistics and background information.
in writing. −as the collection of information is to be carried out by the member states, it is not necessary to carry out a random sample survey. member countries know the demographic composition of their population from the census. therefore, it would be more appropriate to opt for a quota selection that would reduce the number of respondents needed by several times. this would save most of the money to be spent on exploration. moreover, the proposal does not clearly specify what the eur 12 million should be spent on. furthermore, the commission did not specify what specific policies it needs the data obtained in such a survey to prepare. that's why i'm not supporting this motion.
in writing. − ground handling services consist of all ground aviation-related activities carried out for individual airlines at airports and are a key function in the air transport chain. the efficient provision of ground handling services is important for airports, airlines and passengers and is key to the efficient use of air transport infrastructure and the performance of the aviation system in general. the european union's single european sky initiative, which aims to reform the architecture of european air traffic management to meet future capacity and safety needs, recognises the importance of integrating key infrastructure such as airports into the whole system from take-off to landing (gate-to-gate). the general objective that we should strive to achieve, amongst others, is to increase the efficiency and overall quality of ground handling services for users and end-users at eu airports.
in writing. − if you have at aerodromes where the demand of airlines for operating intervals for take-off and landing exceeds the capacity of the aerodrome, the mechanisms for allocating operating intervals shall be used to define a set of rules to be followed for this purpose. depending on the characteristics of the airport, it may be necessary to allocate operating intervals to a certain time of the day or to certain periods of increased passenger demand. the objective is to ensure that access to congested airports is organised according to fair, non-discriminatory and transparent rules for the allocation of operating intervals for take-off and landing, thereby allowing for the optimal use of airport capacity and fair conditions of competition. the implementation of the schedule regulation has significantly improved the allocation of slots at congested european airports in terms of the neutrality and transparency of the allocation process. the commission therefore concludes that the aid granted to bsca does not constitute state aid within the meaning of article 107 (1) of the treaty. the schedule regulation was introduced at a time when the european air transport market was still dominated by a small number of traditional national airlines. today, however, competition is much more intense. i consider it justified to revise the interval regulation and to determine to what extent it can be improved in terms of capacity compliance with air transport demand in all segments.
in writing. − the proposal aims to update existing measures to enable local authorities to address noise reduction around union airports within the international framework of the international civil aviation organisation (icao) 's balanced approach to noise regulation. the balanced approach needs to be applied consistently. at icao level, the eu is actively supporting the development of new noise standards for aircraft and investing in new technologies through the framework programmes and the clean sky project. however, land use planning, together with related isolation and compensation programmes, is a national or local competence. operating procedures are the responsibility of the relevant aerodrome and air traffic services providers and are subject to single european sky legislation. the issue of noise standards is also addressed by another piece of european legislation the environmental noise directive, which commits member states to identify the main sources of environmental noise, to measure the impact of noise and to take appropriate measures. the proposal would complement directive 2002/49/ec in that it provides for a procedure for the development of a noise action plan consisting of cost-effective measures to reduce noise related to air traffic.
in writing. − quality, regulated and reliable statistics are a basic prerequisite for economic policy-making. it provides a basis for policy making. equally important, it generates confidence among citizens and markets. during the current economic crisis, we have seen how inaccurate and misleading statistics have led to a complete loss of confidence within international financial markets and institutions, which has caused the crisis to deepen. independent national statistical authorities, with no government interference, are crucial for both trust and the quality and integrity of statistics. all member states should ensure that they have statistical authorities that are legally independent. i think it is justified that citizens should have free access to statistical data when they are interested. in this context, reliable statistics are of particular importance.
in writing. −european statistics are needed by politicians and citizens alike. statistics provide policy-makers with information on the situation in the eu. new policies are then formulated on the basis of these. citizens are informed impartially by eurostat statistics about the consequences of certain political decisions taken in the past, but also about expectations for the future. the programme for the period 2013 to 2017 shall describe the strategic objectives and expected outputs. it is intended to serve as a general and flexible planning tool to allow for new developments. i have no problem therefore in supporting this proposal, which defines the legal framework for the statistical authority's remit for the coming years. this proposal will ensure the quality of statistics and the efficiency of their production for the next 5 years.
in writing. − if you have in accordance with article 3 (3) of the treaty on european union the union is creating an internal market. pursuant to article 113 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union, the council is to adopt rules for the harmonisation of legislation on turnover taxes, excise duties and other forms of indirect taxation to the extent necessary to ensure the establishment and functioning of the internal market and to avoid distortions of competition. in 2011, the commission noted that the additional taxation of the financial sector was being discussed at all levels. this discussion stems from the desire to ensure that the financial sector contributes fairly and substantially to the costs of the crisis and is taxed in a fair way in the future compared to other sectors, that financial institutions are discouraged from excessive risk-taking activities, that regulatory measures are complemented to prevent future crises and that additional revenues are generated for public budgets or for specific policy purposes. enhanced cooperation should provide the necessary legal framework for the establishment of a common system of financial transaction tax in the participating member states. i consider it necessary to ensure that the essential elements of this tax are harmonised. enhanced cooperation shall always be open to all member states willing to comply with acts already adopted in this framework in accordance with article 328 tfeu.
in writing. − animal welfare in the 21st century is an expression of humanity and an issue that must be addressed by european civilization and culture, as any action to protect and ensure the welfare of animals must be based on scientific knowledge as well as on the principle that animals are sentient beings whose special needs must be taken into account, as laid down in article 13 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. eu animal welfare legislation must not lead to distortions of free trade in goods or disproportionate financial costs, while taking into account the specific disadvantaged geographical situation of peripheral and outermost regions. transport time constraints and overly restrictive conditions may jeopardise the regular supply of the market in certain countries and peripheral regions within the eu, with the result that some companies become economically unviable, with all the consequences associated with this loss of competitiveness. i believe that the conditions for the transport of animals should clearly be in the best interests of all. i also believe that the appropriate education and training of hauliers and transporters is essential for the proper treatment of animals, thus laying the foundations for the protection and welfare of animals.
in writing. − transporting animals over long distances in unhygienic and unfavourable conditions increases the risk of spreading infection and disease and directly affects the quality of meat products. i therefore agree that animals should be slaughtered as close as possible to their place of production, which would reduce the unnecessary stress and costs associated with their complex and painful transport. consumers could thus enjoy fresh meat from animals that have been reared in the region. food chains and meat producers that prefer to offer locally produced meat would thus also contribute to the development of their region. in this respect, however, we must ensure that eu hygiene legislation does not place an unnecessary administrative burden on small regional slaughter and processing establishments. at european union level, we need to adopt policies and legal instruments facilitating the creation of short supply chains to avoid the unreasonably long transport of live animals for the sole purpose of slaughter.
in writing. − since 1977, the european union has had rules governing animal welfare during transport, aimed at removing technical barriers to trade while ensuring an adequate level of animal protection. article 32 of the regulation requires the commission to submit to the european parliament, within four years of the date of entry into force of the regulation, a report on the impact of this regulation on the living conditions of transported animals and on trade flows in live animals within the enlarged community. the rapporteur welcomes the commission's report providing information on the implementation of the regulation, although he considers that the report does not contain a full assessment of the transport of animals in terms of all economic, social and environmental costs. one of the biggest problems in transporting live animals is the maximum time allowed for transport. parliament adopted a written declaration calling for a maximum transport time of 8 hours. the situation is such that one third of live animal transports take 8 hours or more. determining whether 8 hours is the right maximum transport time is also very difficult due to incomplete scientific evidence. however, to increase the protection of animals during transport, it is necessary to reduce this time and at the same time increase the penalties for violators. logical steps include supporting local slaughterhouses, which will help to minimise long-term transport.
in writing. - i am pleased that the report includes several articles on national minorities. the protection of national minorities is essential for the proper functioning of the union. the protection of minorities is an integral part of fundamental human rights. effective protection requires institutional commitment. although the protection of national minorities was included in mrs flašíková-beňová's report, i had to vote against the report because it contains several articles which i do not find acceptable. unfortunately, the report contains passages that go beyond the union's competence and impose on the union tasks that are unacceptable and unrealistic. the annual report on fundamental human rights must not become a battleground for political interests and ideologies. it should present an objective picture of the situation, drawing the attention of the member states and the union institutions to the shortcomings and formulating concrete proposals for solutions and realistic expectations to be addressed in the next annual report. this year's report does not do so and therefore, despite its positive wording, it cannot be supported.
in writing. − article 2 of the treaty on european union establishes the union as a community of indivisible and universal values of respect for human dignity, freedom, democracy, gender equality, non-discrimination, solidarity, the rule of law and respect for human rights and civil liberties for all persons living in the territory of the eu, including persons belonging to minorities, stateless persons and persons temporarily or illegally present in the territory of the european union. all these values are common to the member states in a society that promotes pluralism, non-discrimination, tolerance, justice and equality between women and men. i consider it necessary and important to develop and strengthen a genuine culture of fundamental rights in the institutions of the union and in the member states. the union must promote a coherent eu human rights policy and a mechanism that brings together the various fundamental rights actors within the eu structure. it is clear that citizens can only enjoy their rights fully if fundamental values and principles such as the rule of law, the independence of the judiciary, media freedom and non-discrimination are respected. i believe that for the effective protection and promotion of fundamental rights it is important that member states, in a spirit of solidarity and sincere cooperation with other member states, adopt the eu's control of respect for eu values in legislative policies and in practice.
in writing. − the charter of fundamental rights of the european union clearly states that the right to marry and the right to found a family are guaranteed in accordance with national laws. member states therefore have the sovereign right to decide on the basis of their own cultural values and traditions. however, the report on fundamental rights in the european union does not respect such provisions of the charter and even deliberately exceeds the scope of the eu's competences. i cannot agree with many aspects of the report in particular, or with the whole of it, but i will concentrate on a few of the most important in my explanation of vote. the choice of two different instruments and a separate approach for so-called registered partnerships and marriages justified by the very nature of marriage, which is the union of a man and a woman. marriage, which is the foundation of the family and the space for the healthy upbringing of children, deserves special, privileged protection by society, especially in the field of law. for it is undeniable that the family in which children are born and raised is the foundation of any healthy and prosperous society. the attempt to establish an equal approach to two biologically, socially and psychologically different realities is therefore completely unjustified. as regards sexual and reproductive health services, in particular so-called safe and legal abortion, i must reiterate that the charter of human rights and other human rights instruments clearly establish the right to life and respect for the physical and mental integrity of the human being. for the reasons stated above, i shall vote against the report.
in writing. − since 1993, the european parliament has been actively involved in the observance of fundamental human rights in the individual member states. however, the european convention on human rights of 1977 already sets out the obligations of the european institutions to respect fundamental rights. the charter of fundamental rights, which became a primary law with the entry into force of the treaty of lisbon and thus binding on the european institutions as well as the eu member states, has brought about a significant advance in the perception of human rights. the charter therefore has the same legal binding force as any eu treaty and is legally enforceable. the treaty of lisbon further strengthened the powers of the european parliament. the report on the respect of fundamental human rights in the eu thus gains in importance. it focuses on a number of areas not covered by previous reports. i welcome the focus on reproductive health and the call to member states to allow women to decide for themselves about their reproductive rights. i also support the rapporteur's proposal to the european commission to monitor compliance with legislation on this issue. among other areas, i particularly support the section on youth employment policy and believe that initiatives such as the youth guarantee will help us win the multiannual fight against unemployment in the coming years, in the midst of the ongoing economic crisis.
in writing. − i supported the report on eu fundamental rights because the rapporteur has very consistently pointed out the problems of respecting fundamental rights in the eu and suggested possible solutions. in times of economic and financial crisis, when we have over 23 million unemployed and an even greater number of poor people, it is important that we respect basic human rights. i live in košice, in eastern slovakia, where there is a large roma population. together with the rapporteur and other colleagues, we have personally visited many villages and settlements where roma minorities live. in many villages, roma are integrated into society, they are not discriminated against and their children are educated and attend secondary and higher education. but not everywhere, and that is why issues such as discrimination, segregation and intolerance need to be addressed. it is also worrying that all of europe is becoming radicalized, that hatred of minorities is the electoral platform of many populist parties, and that they are also winning elections. it is therefore necessary to speak out and find solutions to these problems in order to protect the eu countries from violence and war for another 60 years.
i appreciate the work of both rapporteurs - mr donskis and mr tavares - for producing good reports. i join in congratulating you on your nobel peace prize. the union also received it for promoting the values that unite us, namely the promotion of democracy and human rights. i am pleased that this year's state of human rights report confirms the eu's ambition to continue to play a key role in this area within the member states as well as with other partners around the world. the union has an important role to play in using its authority and natural influence in the field of human rights and democracy, particularly in its immediate neighbourhood. i therefore welcome the fact that the report emphasises this aspect. as rapporteur for the european neighbourhood instrument, i fully support the union's increased activities in our southern and eastern neighbourhood. we must promote policies that consistently promote the consolidation of democracy and the protection of human rights in these areas. the arab spring was an important signal for us to reassess our positions. in conclusion, it is good that this year's report points to the possibilities for improving human rights policy, while also signalling further engagement by the union on these issues.
mr president, i always supported the eu’s so-called critical engagement policy towards russia as opposed to the cold war policy of containment and zero-sum gain. given the myriad of interdependencies it makes sense to base our policy on strategic dialogue, economic cooperation and efforts to assist russian modernisation. the problem, however, is that our current policy seems not to be working. the negotiations on a new agreement have stalled. instead russia demands that the eu negotiates with the newly created eurasian union. moscow has not moved an inch on any of the frozen conflicts. it continues to prop up the assad regime in syria, it joined the wto but has shown no signs of willingness to abide by its rules, and domestically, after a brief opening late last year, the russian political system is heading towards closure. while i still believe in the logic of the critical engagement policy, i wonder whether it is not time to reassess it. i welcome the changed tone in the swoboda report and, as a first step, i suggest we follow the us congress and introduce the magnitsky sanctions.
egypt is still in the process of revolution. the constitution is never a formal process, it is always the result of a balance of power between different values, traditions, religions. the revolution in egypt is not comparable to the anti-communist revolutions of 1989 in europe. the countries of central, southern and northern europe were returning to their democratic traditions, and egypt is seeking to shape them. the egyptian constitution is certainly not an ideal model of democracy and the rule of law. if it is at least what i call a tolerant state, which has finally been the dominant state in europe for almost 200 years, it will be a significant step towards a future state of democracy and freedom. i believe that egypt is going through this process faster than it has been in european history, and with the help of us and the european union.
madam president, i have followed the situation and elections in ukraine closely and with some expectations. unfortunately, like many members of this house, i am also disturbed by the elections and the post-electoral processes in the country. ukraine is our important neighbour and partner. respect for and clarity in democratic processes must be an important basis for the union’s further cooperation with the country. in many respects, there are questions over issues such as the elections, the imprisonment of the opposition leaders, or, in more general terms, the functioning of the rule of law. as a neighbour, it is our role to create possibilities to improve them. it is for ukraine’s politicians, however, to make choices. if there is willingness to go in the eu direction, they need to take on the burden of the necessary reforms. this could give us grounds for feeling more optimistic about the future pro-european development of the country.
the situation in ukraine has been politically polarised for a long time. however, we cannot determine what the political composition of the representative bodies of ukraine will be. so we should communicate and cooperate with that representation that came out of free elections, even if we have a very difficult time dealing with it. we should also maintain close cooperation with all decent political forces in ukraine that respect freedom and democracy. the suspension of dialogue or postponement of cooperation under the association agreement may mean that ukraine will seek its future in closer cooperation with its eastern neighbours, which will certainly not improve the prospects of its people for a free and democratic future. so i think we have to be patient and a little generous. i am convinced that ukrainian citizens will also gradually be able to choose better and more trustworthy politicians. and if we allow them to travel openly in europe, their demands for the integrity of politicians will surely increase more quickly.
in writing. ladies and gentlemen, this is a watershed moment in eu-ukraine relations. on the table is an unsigned association agreement, a document that has the potential to transform ukraine's economy and society. i understand the disappointment of my colleagues, as well as of several leaders of member states, at the imperfection of ukrainian democracy and the selective and politically motivated use of the judiciary. it is clear that the october parliamentary elections were not fully in line with eu standards either. however, freezing bilateral relations and postponing the signing of the association agreement indefinitely will not bring any positive results. he is a member of the 'people's council' of the so-called 'donetsk people's republic'. on the contrary, it will isolate ukraine, resulting in a second belarus on our borders. this would, among other things, mean the de facto end of the eastern partnership as a meaningful initiative. at this point, it is necessary to define clear and enforceable conditions for the ukrainian government in the areas of judiciary, electoral legislation and constitutional reforms so that the agreement can be signed at the next eastern partnership summit in vilnius. i am glad that this is the approach that the foreign ministers adopted at the last council meeting. many reproach the union for lacking a strategic dimension in its foreign policy for failing to clearly define and pursue its interests. the signing of an association agreement with ukraine is clearly in our strategic interest and has the added advantage of being of enormous benefit to ukraine itself.
on behalf of the ppe group. – madam president, we welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur. we also congratulate the albanians on their achievements, and would like to encourage them to build on them. the commission gave a strong positive signal to albania in its last progress report by recommending candidate country status for albania, subject to the fulfilment of three remaining conditions. we believe that this should become a driving force for albania in its progress towards european integration, and i think that this is crucial to the process for the following reasons. first, the eu agenda must not divide politicians in albania and should not be treated as a bargaining chip in terms of internal politics. it needs to be a unifying factor. the report appreciates the efforts made so far, but it is also worth mentioning that political dialogue and political cooperation on the eu agenda cannot be selective, but needs to be solidly based within the system. there are still some concerns around this. second, the eu has been very clear and explicit as regards its expectations of albania. we agreed on key priorities which need to be fulfilled before the next steps in the process. the credibility of this process should be based on fair and rigorous conditionality. we should expect fulfilment of what was agreed on. finally, albania still has a good chance in the near future of progressing towards the eu. after a long time, we now have encouraging reports, but an important check in this respect is still to come. the elections offer a great opportunity to show how firmly politicians and mechanisms are rooted in democratic values.
the european union is founded on universal values such as human rights and freedoms and actively contributes to their preservation and development. in order to respect human rights, which have become a common and shared value for all eu member states, the fundamental rights agency was also established to deal with the human rights situation in the 27 eu countries. i would like to support the ideas expressed by the rapporteur, mr pirker, that on the one hand we have an agency, but it must work better. it must not spend two-thirds of its budget on administration alone and not use it for what it was set up to do. the eu agency for fundamental rights is to fulfil its tasks exclusively in the thematic areas identified in the multiannual financial framework and therefore the multiannual framework for the agency for the years 2013 to 2017 should be carefully formulated taking into account the new eu rights and obligations arising from the lisbon treaty. in my view, the rights of persons with disabilities, which i stress, derive from the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities, which the eu ratified in january 2011, should be explicitly included in the work of the agency. this document ensures that people with disabilities can enjoy their rights on an equal basis with all other citizens. i am also in favour of the idea of including new thematic areas such as police and judicial cooperation in criminal matters in the multiannual framework, as they are already covered by the scope of the agency's remit. in conclusion, i would like to say that the functioning and focus of the agency must reflect the overall changes in eu legislation. the agency's activities in the new thematic areas will thus contribute to the thorough protection of fundamental rights in the european union.
i supported the alternative report by the european people's party, but voted against the report by mrs flašíková-bňová. the report does not benefit the european parliament, the european union or any of its citizens who suffer from the lack of respect for fundamental human rights. the report redefines basic human rights. it proposes new fundamental rights that upset the delicate balance between the common good and the interests of hard-to-defined minorities. the resolution proposes a new institutional architecture that undermines the fundamental principle of separation of powers. it may happen that the violation of fundamental rights is judged by ngo activists rather than by the judiciary. the european parliament has often strongly criticised the polarization of the judiciary in banana republics. however, this report brings polarization to the judiciary in the european union.
i did not vote for the multiannual programme of the fundamental rights agency. as the commissioner explained this morning in the plenary, the responsibilities of this agency are not clearly defined by the member states. until the skills are fixed, we should not be doing this alone. the lack of unanimity is due to the overly political nature of the fundamental rights agency. within the union itself, an agency wishes to intervene in regulatory responsibilities which belong to the competent authorities of the member states. it is the responsibility of national courts and, ultimately, of the judges of the european court of human rights and the european court of justice to find a violation of human rights. the politicization of fundamental rights is certainly not an appropriate strategy.
i have been a human rights campaigner for a long time and i regret that i could not support this report. i'm sorry that one of the rights being upheld is the right to abortion. let's call it what it is. the report deplores the fact that in some countries obstacles are being put in the way of abortion. i think that life is always a better choice than death, and therefore the issue of abortion should not be taken as a fundamental right. on the one hand, we defend the rights of the child and we talk about the vulnerability of the child, but on the other hand, we talk about the right to kill the unborn child before it is born. the report also highlights religious tolerance. it states that religion cannot be used to oppress or restrict other religions. however, the exact opposite was also seen in the european union's first reaction to the proposal for a commemorative two-euro coin with the portraits of saints cyril and methodius from slovakia.
the palestinian president has asked for the recognition of palestine as an observer state. of the old eu member states, only germany, the netherlands and the united kingdom abstained. the next day, the head of the hamas politburo repeated that he would never accept the existence of a jewish state. from the rostrum, he declared that the only way is jihad and violence. one would expect this parliament to respond with a resolution strongly calling on the palestinian leaders to return to the negotiating table, and in this context to condemn the irresponsible foreign policies of some eu member states and to express its disapproval of the plan to build new jewish settlements. but it didn't happen that way. excuse me, but we're going to criticize israel. i could not support such a resolution.
in writing. − on 15 february 2007, the council adopted regulation (ec) no 168/2007 establishing the european union agency for fundamental rights, which started its work on 1 march 2007. the multiannual financial framework is not a work programme. the agency's work programmes shall be approved each year by its management board within the thematic areas identified in the multiannual financial framework. at the request of the european parliament, the council or the commission, the agency may also carry out activities outside those thematic areas, provided that its financial and human resources so permit. the current multiannual framework (2007 2012) will expire at the end of 2012. it is therefore necessary to establish a multiannual framework for the agency for the years 2013 to 2017. for the period in question, the council proposed, among others, areas such as access to justice, victims of crime, including compensation for victims of crime, the information society, in particular respect for private life and the protection of personal data, roma integration, the rights of the child, etc. i believe that the scope of the agency's work should explicitly include social rights and a specific role in relation to the independent monitoring of the un convention on the rights of persons with disabilities. it is appropriate that the commission reviews and proposes to review the agency's tasks, areas of competence and working methods in 2013 in order to guarantee the effective monitoring and implementation of the charter of fundamental rights.
in writing. − over the years, parliament has considerably extended its powers, thus securing important instruments that allow it to influence the decision-making process of the european union in most of the union's activities. institutions to which a written statement is addressed should ensure that it is followed up properly. such written statements serve as a useful tool for raising issues of particular concern to citizens of the union. they have minimal influence in setting the programme and in influencing decisions taken by the institutions, and therefore may give rise to misconceptions about their effectiveness. however, if used correctly, they can retain their relevance as a popular tool for promoting proposals. when it comes to proposals calling for the adoption of a legislative measure, rule 42 (2) should apply, which gives individual members a real opportunity to influence union legislation and to include the proposal in the work of parliament's committees. as the quality and significance of some written statements may appear unsatisfactory, i believe that parliament could, in the next parliamentary term, assess the impact of the new provisions of its rules of procedure relating to written statements and their effectiveness.
in writing. − the treaties commit the european union to base its external action on the principles of democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, the preservation of human dignity, the principles of equality and solidarity, and respect for the principles of the united nations charter and international law. justice, the rule of law, accountability for all crimes, including the most serious crimes of concern to the international community, fair trials and an independent judiciary are indispensable aspects of the protection of human rights and pillars of a lasting peace. democracy and the rule of law are the best safeguards of human rights and fundamental freedoms, of non-discrimination in all its forms and of tolerance towards individuals and communities, and of equality for all. while the positive steps taken in the preparation of the annual report in recent years are welcome, i think it is also fair to say that, as a rule, there is always room for further improvement. the annual report should be an important tool for informing about eu action in this area and should help to improve the visibility of eu actions.
in writing. − the european union is founded on the principle of respect for human rights and has a legal obligation under its treaties to place human rights at the centre of all its policies and those of the member states without exception, and at the centre of all international agreements. dialogues between the eu, its member states and third countries must be followed by concrete measures designed to ensure that human rights remain at the heart of these policies. however, the current economic crisis has also shown, among other things, that grandiose pronouncements on human rights issues are insufficient if they are not accompanied by a policy of human rights principles, implemented through rapid and concrete measures and based on the obligation to respect the coherence and unity of the internal and external dimension of all eu policies. the promotion of human rights and democracy is a shared responsibility of the eu and its member states. i am convinced that progress in this area can only be achieved through coordinated and coherent action by both sides. the broad scope and main elements of the eu's new strategic framework on human rights and democracy require a high degree of unity and political will to achieve the concrete results that are desired.
in writing. − the eu's evolving common foreign and security policy, as well as its energy policy, should include russia as a strategic partner, in accordance with the principle of conditionality, provided that it also applies and promotes the fundamental values on which the union is founded, including democracy, the rule of law, the universality and indivisibility of human rights and fundamental freedoms, respect for human dignity, the principles of equal treatment and solidarity, and compliance with the principles laid down in the un charter and international law. russia is a country with cultural roots in europe and, as a member of the un security council, the g8 and g20, the council of europe and the osce, an important global and regional player, and must therefore fulfil the obligations of membership in those organisations. however, under the leadership of president vladimir putin, russia has shown only a selective interest in the formulation of common policies and no real intention to create a genuine and comprehensive strategic partnership for the application of international law and conflict prevention. i consider it important that the union remains committed to further deepening and developing its relations with this country and to upholding the principles enshrined in the partnership for modernisation, which are based on common interests and a deep commitment to common values, democratic principles, respect for fundamental human rights and the rule of law.
in writing. − ukraine was identified during the eu-ukraine summit in 2011 in kiev as a european country with a european identity, sharing a common history and common values with the countries of the european union. the summit, which was to have resulted in the signing of an association agreement, did not meet its objectives, however, as the eu was concerned about the political situation in ukraine, in particular with regard to the arrest and prosecution of leading opposition figures yulia tymoshenko and yuri luzhenko. the european union further reaffirms its commitment to political association and economic integration with ukraine. i am convinced that to ensure strengthened relations between them, swift and decisive action by the government and all other relevant state bodies in ukraine is necessary to consolidate the democratic legitimacy of the country. effective cooperation between ukraine and the european union can only be implemented on the basis of a clear willingness of the ukrainian authorities to undertake the necessary reforms, in particular in the legal system and the judiciary, in order to start fully implementing the principles of democracy, protecting human rights, fundamental freedoms and minority rights, and respecting the rule of law.
in writing. − the future of albania and the other western balkan countries is linked to the european union. albania too belongs to europe geographically, historically and culturally. the country's accession to the eu should not be the goal of the government and the opposition, but should be in the common interest of all albanians. the candidate countries must demonstrate their capacity to strengthen the practical implementation of the values on which the eu is founded at all stages of the accession process. they must establish and support from the outset the proper functioning of the main institutions necessary for democratic governance and respect for the rule of law, from national parliaments, through the government and the judiciary, including courts and prosecutors, to law enforcement. i am of the opinion that albania, thanks to its reform efforts to date, and if the citizens of this country so wish, can progress in 2012 to the next stage of the accession process to obtain the status of candidate country for accession, if it achieves sufficient concrete results in the areas where key reforms are desirable and necessary.
in writing. − steel is crucial to the eu economy and to the development and competitiveness of several important downstream sectors, such as the automotive and engineering industries. in the recent period, it has faced considerable difficulties such as a significant drop in demand, strong competition from third countries, complicated access to raw materials and increased costs, which led to restructuring, mergers and job losses. i believe that one of our priorities should be to seek and adopt measures to prevent the threat of relocation of steel undertakings outside the european union. the commission's initiative to develop a european steel action plan by june 2013 is welcomed, but should be submitted as soon as possible. such an action plan should also take into account ways of addressing and mitigating the high energy and raw material costs that threaten the competitiveness of the steel industry. energy efficiency and resource efficiency can contribute to significant cost savings and in this context it is necessary that the commission and the steel industry itself continue to examine the options available for concrete steps to achieve cost savings. at the same time, successful restructuring cannot be achieved without a strong and responsible social dialogue.
in writing. − the petitioners have strongly expressed their concern about the extremely high level of dioxin emissions from the ilva steel plant in taranto, which has had and continues to have harmful and lasting effects on the health of the local population. up to 20,000 families have members who worked in or were involved with the steel industry, and pollution levels among the local population have led to unacceptable and intolerable levels of disease and chronic illness. the fragile and dangerous situation of ilva steel also causes serious environmental degradation and damage, as well as serious social and economic problems in the south of italy. unfortunately, neither the privatisation of this steel plant has led to any improvement in the overall situation nor in the environmental safety of the sector. overall, the steel industry, which employs some 360 000 people, is a key economic sector in the european union. i believe that parliament has a duty and a responsibility to show clearly its solidarity with the workers of ilva steel and their families who have been affected by this absolutely unacceptable situation. i believe that the necessary effort must be made to link economic objectives with social and environmental priorities in order to build a modern, competitive and sustainable european steel industry that is fully in line with european union environmental legislation.
for the efd group. i am convinced that the main cause of the ongoing conflicts in the east of the democratic republic of congo is the struggle for control over the exploitation of the natural resources in the area. if the congolese government does not have the authority and the necessary military force to maintain law and order in the country, adventurers of all kinds will always try to take advantage of this situation and by causing all kinds of unrest and conflict, create a path to the mineral wealth of the country. the local population is simply a victim of the commercial interests of various mining companies, which create conditions for the exploitation of mineral wealth from behind the scenes through armed gangs. therefore, i think that in addition to the standard measures we apply in similar cases, aimed at consolidating and stabilising the social and political environment of the country, we should also promote measures to protect against the illegal exploitation of natural resources and the trade in raw materials thus acquired. following the example of the dodd-frank act passed by the united states congress, we should be enforcing strict measures to better trace minerals that come from illegal mining, including more rigorous control of the international natural resources market. identifying and subsequently seizing illicitly extracted raw materials will discourage adventurous mineral conquerors from artificially inciting ethnic conflicts and funding armed gangs.
mr president, i am very much concerned about the humanitarian crisis and the many serious human rights violations which are going on in congo. we must condemn mass rape, torture, massacres of civilians and the enrolment of child soldiers. the non-prosecution of those responsible for human rights violations and war crimes promotes the climate of impunity and encourages the perpetration of fresh crimes. the eu has its role to play in this situation. we need to ensure our contribution to the restoration of justice and security in the country and secure the continuity of the military assistance mission and the police assistance mission. it is extremely important to find a solution which will secure respect for human rights and bring peace, security and stability to the region.
for the efd group. the battle against centuries of custom is complex and long- drawn out in every society. the caste system in india is apparently still very much in place. nevertheless, i think we must use the full authority of the european parliament to work with the indian administration to speed up the eradication of the inhuman manifestations of caste discrimination from indian society. in particular, women from the dalit and adivasi communities are often subjected to degrading treatment and unacceptable discrimination. often they are forced to do hard or disgusting work and are often the targets of impunity for sexual abuse by members of the ruling caste. evidence of these practices was also seen in the recent gang rape of a 16-year-old girl in the village of dabra. therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we must ask the indian state authorities to enforce the law on the lowest registered castes and registered tribes under the protection of the government more vigorously so that members of any caste or community in india are not subjected to violence, humiliation and discrimination. the responsibility for protecting the human rights of the people of india rests entirely with the indian state bodies and institutions. that's why we have to direct our criticism there.
