dear prime minister, i will not speak today as a politician of the left or the right, but as a former journalist who is deeply concerned about the freedom of the press. i have read in detail a series of reports from reputable journalistic organizations and the facts are deeply worrying for the future of independent journalism in hungary. media legislation does not comply with european standards on media freedom. recent events should be of concern to every european citizen who believes in democracy, media freedom and fundamental rights. how can you explain to us, mr. orban, that the media council, which has no members from the opposition parties, by re-allocating frequencies, cancels one of the only independent radio stations of the club and that the same council also decides on extremely high fines for the media? how do you explain the recent threat by the home secretary to bring criminal charges against a journalist who blogged a disturbing letter from president barros, saying that it was a violation of privacy, and that this journalist could get a very high prison sentence? such facts can pose a very serious threat to media freedom, creating fear and unease among journalists. i am not surprised, as i have information, that the hungarian media today have largely reported on yesterday's commission warnings as if they were nothing special. and this debate today proves just the opposite. we expect you to respect democratic values as everywhere in europe and the hungarian people deserve it.
opinions on the outcome of the durban conference are very different. just as every medal has two sides, these results have a bright side and a dark side. the conference was a great success, from a political point of view, because it was a major step forward towards global responsibility, and the european union had once again taken the lead in this area. i would like to congratulate you on the strategy you have drawn up and on your performance in the negotiations. and those of us who are evaluating the conference with a view to reducing greenhouse gas emissions cannot, we cannot be satisfied. i myself think of the biggest polluters, such as the united states, china, india, japan, russia. we met with many representatives of these countries, and i didn't really get the sense that these representatives really wanted to reduce greenhouse gas emissions. so i think we have a big job to do to secure the support of those countries as well. we especially lack the support of the developed countries. i also hope that in the future we will agree on a uniform system for calculating emissions, because if we do not have one, we will not know what the figures are, what they mean. i also want to see more progress in the future in the area of maritime and air transport, and of course greater ambition from the countries. we said our goal was 2 degrees celsius, now we have 4 degrees celsius, and scientists are warning us that our goal should be at least one and a half degrees. - thank you. - thank you.
thank you for this excellent work, and of course for the great simplification and reduction in cost of sepa payments. the 23 million smes will be very happy to save and at the same time to have new and good conditions for growth. but i'm concerned about the present. all of this requires a good information platform and, of course, good reliability and security. with today's bank failures, along with the demonstrations for acto, we can see that there could be major disruptions here. so i'm just putting a little more focus on this area.
i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and the coordinator on all that has been done for the benefit of farmers, who are in fact the weakest link, the weakest link with a lot of work and little income. and beyond 2015, we will need to think in terms of those that will still be weak, which are farms in remote mountain areas. that this will be a combination with tourism, with a healthy lifestyle, also with the production of local food and thus also conditions for entrepreneurship and for new jobs, because new jobs are being lost in the classical industry and therefore this area, the regulated area, can be a great opportunity.
in december, we voted in this parliament against the extension of the fisheries agreement between the european union and morocco, partly because morocco, contrary to international law, has not provided evidence that it is using european money from this agreement to benefit the local population, the sahrawi people. many of us voted against the agreement also because it indirectly recognises morocco's right to dispose of the natural resources of the territory it illegally occupies. for the same reason, the agreement on the liberalisation of trade in agricultural and fishery products is also unacceptable. if we in the european union recognise international law and human rights, then we must oppose any agreement with morocco which does not explicitly exclude the possibility of trade with western sahara as part of the kingdom of morocco. i would suggest that all colleagues who are enthusiastic about democratic reforms in morocco should take this into account, since the decolonisation of western sahara is the measure of democracy and the democratisation of morocco. (the speaker also answered the question by raising the blue card (rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure))
answer the question posed by raising the blue card. thank you, my dear colleague, for your question. i recently visited the refugee camp in tindufu, and there are many such camps around western sahara. it's filled with people who were forced to flee their homeland because of the violence in morocco. these people have no opportunity to grow vegetables, no tomatoes, no anything on their land, in their homeland. that's the problem.
in writing. − i supported the regulation because i believe that in the present circumstances such an expression of solidarity at european level towards people in need is justified, necessary and welcome. i welcome the decision that it must go for food of european union origin in the relevant food distribution.
in writing. - after a two-year hiatus, we've finally decided on a food distribution program. i am pleased that the final compromise proposal contains two parliamentary proposals, namely 100% eu funding and the obligation to indicate at the distribution points the union's participation in the programme. a number of european countries are facing budgetary problems. the requirement for co-financing by the states could lead to a number of states reducing the scope of the programme or even withdrawing from it. since last march, the number of unemployed in the eu has increased by well over a million, and the increase in the number of those living in poverty is also a cause for concern. the proposal to indicate union cooperation may at first sight appear to be more than a cosmetic addition. but in these difficult times, when we face economic difficulties and doubts and mistrust about european integration, it is of the utmost importance that the weakest and most vulnerable members of our society know that they are not alone. to know that the eu is not just a synonym for the single internal market, but also a synonym for solidarity and concern for individuals, especially those in need. however, it is of concern that the scheme will be phased out after the completion of the 2013 annual plan. i sincerely hope that by then we will have found a suitable solution to help the weakest.
in writing. − years ago, i gave the european commission an initiative to reduce roaming charges for mobile operators abroad, which resulted in a significant price reduction. i am of course in favour of continuing the common policy in this direction and supporting the establishment of a multiannual radio spectrum policy programme. the opening of the 800 mhz frequency band to electronic communications services in all member states by 1 january 2013, the acceleration of the development of mobile broadband services of at least 30 mbps by 2020 for all citizens of the european union and the allocation of 1200 mhz spectrum for mobile data transmission by 2015 are truly strategic decisions that are essential for the establishment of a pan-european telecommunications market.
in writing. − i supported the regulation in the belief that it could contribute to improving the status of milk producers by strengthening their bargaining power vis-à-vis traders and thus to a fairer distribution of added value from producer to consumer. i also support the regulation because we need to prepare for the year 2015 when quotas will be abolished in the milk sector.
in writing. − analyses suggest that most countries should be well on their way to a 'soft landing' when milk quotas are finally abolished. nevertheless, the transition to a milk quota-free period presents a number of challenges for the dairy sector, in particular for milk producers. it is therefore right and good that they prepare themselves as well as possible for these changes and that their negotiating assistance is improved. in this respect, i welcome the proposed measures, such as the possibility of introducing compulsory contracts, the extension of the rules for the integration of producers and measures for the comprehensive and transparent monitoring of the quantities of milk bought in. in particular, the new system poses challenges to milk producers in areas with limited farming factors (including in slovenia). they will have to think carefully about how to proceed, and unfortunately one of the unwelcome options is to abandon dairy production and/or farming. in my view, the measures proposed in these regions and areas are not sufficient. i therefore call for consideration to be given to introducing additional measures for these areas, either under the single common organisation of the markets or under rural development policy. as 2015 is fast approaching, i am looking forward to the next report on developments in the dairy sector at the end of this year.
in writing. − i welcome the efforts of the european commission in preparing the 2012 annual growth survey and i am pleased that the european parliament has decided to prepare a report on the employment and social aspects of this growth survey. as a member of the committee on culture and education, i was particularly struck by the part of the report on reducing youth unemployment. like the rapporteur, i believe it is extremely important to stop the current trend and not to lose the potential of an entire generation of young people in europe. i myself sought solutions to the problem of youth unemployment during the preparation of the report on youth and mobility, as well as in the work on the report on the contribution of the european institutions to the progress of the bologna process. various economic and social factors have triggered a large increase in youth unemployment in recent years. these factors have revealed some shortcomings in european higher education systems. it has become clear how important it is that a graduate can find a job after graduation. a very important step towards reducing youth unemployment is taken by those universities which are interested in the fate of their graduates after they have finished their studies.
question asked by raising the blue card. let me ask you about one very important area, which is migration, resettlement, family reunification. what is the state of health care and, above all, of prevention of infectious diseases, which are still a major threat in many areas today, including in europe?
mr president, i warmly welcome the council decision to grant serbia candidate status. it is a hugely positive step forward and recognition of serbia’s reform effort. it is also an important step forward for all the neighbours and the region as a whole. this is also a last and dramatic wake-up call to macedonia, which has been waiting in vain for the opening of accession negotiations for the past seven years. despite certain setbacks and delays, belgrade has acted responsibly and engaged seriously in a dialogue with priština. implementation of all agreements reached to date has begun. i hope the authorities will keep up this positive momentum and continue with implementation in good faith, including integrated border management. the outstanding issue in serbia today is systemic corruption and the political influence of the judiciary. serbian leaders need to do more in the fight against corruption, while at the same time ensuring a genuine rule of law in the country. this is needed to make possible the early opening of chapters 23 and 24 of the accession negotiations. i hope serbia will remain ambitious in striving for the quick opening of accession negotiations. it is essential that belgrade keeps its constructive approach towards kosovo during and after the election campaign. the so-called parallel structures in north kosovo must begin to be carefully removed so that eulex and kfor can fully execute their mandate.
the council's conclusions are geared to both saving and development. but with five and a half million young unemployed, it is essential to empower, educate and train young people to take risks. risks that are also inherent in entrepreneurship. ideas are the beginning of everything, but an idea without implementation, without the courage to implement, doesn't mean much. so in the centres of knowledge, we need to put more emphasis on this, on the entrepreneurial culture, on education, on training young people, so that they have the courage to be self-employed, to have the courage to take risks.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report as one of the necessary expressions of respect for the principle of equality, but also in the belief that the consistent equality of women in political decision-making also means an enrichment of the political decision-making process.
in writing. − i am pleased that the report on the contribution of the european institutions to the consolidation and progress of the bologna process has just been adopted by a large majority in plenary. the author of the report, luigi berlinguer, mep and former minister for education, did a great job and i worked well with him to draft the opinion for my political group, the european people's party. that is why i voted for the berlinguer report. since the signing of the bologna treaty, the european higher education area has become much more unified. all the associated countries have established three-level higher education. however, after the first decade of reform, many questions remain. the three-tier system has created considerable problems in some countries, as the new concept has not yet been fully adopted by universities. unfortunately, most countries have still not established national qualifications frameworks linked to the european qualifications framework. this is seriously hampering the progress of the bologna process. the berlinguer report stresses that in the second decade, the main objective of the process remains the equal recognition of degrees from any eu university in all eu member states. i hope that the report will help to overcome the remaining obstacles as effectively as possible and that the common european higher education area will become an increasingly effective element in the relaunch of the european economy.
i welcome the resolution and i welcome this priority of the danish presidency. from my own past experience as president of the council of ministers of the european union, i can say that this approach is extremely positive, because the awareness of this problem is really spreading across europe. not just comprehensive disease control, but prevention, because what's really important is that citizens are aware of what they can do sooner. and of course, what they can do later when the disease strikes. what it means to change your lifestyle. not just taking medication, but actually changing your lifestyle. and there is an opportunity for civil society organisations, which are extremely strong in this area, to also play a role in raising awareness among citizens, in conjunction, of course, with the profession. this is an opportunity for politics, for the profession, to find its synergy with responsible and disciplined individuals.
mr president, the resolution we are discussing today is a message of encouragement and a friendly assessment of what needs to be done so the country can move forward towards the eu. i would like to congratulate the commissioner for his personal engagement and the decision to start a high-level dialogue as early as this week. macedonia can and should shape its identity by looking to the future and its european perspective. the macedonian identity is an integral part of the modern european identity. macedonian leaders should therefore end the self-imposed isolation of the country and bring its people closer to europe. with accession to nato, macedonia would get security guarantees and secure its territorial integrity; with eu membership, it would attain economic progress, regional stability and protection of human and minority rights. it is deeply regrettable and worrying that there have been a number of ethnic-based incidents lately. macedonia needs to preserve its multi-ethnic … (the president cut off the speaker)
i think the main message of this debate was expressed by the words of my colleagues who said that the accession negotiations for macedonia's accession to the european union should be started as soon as possible. only this will displace or put into a corner the various nationalist theories that are emerging and that have always been a cancer of the wounded relations between the peoples of the balkans. unfortunately, we have heard much of the same rhetoric today. i think it's time for greece to reflect on the fact that it's actually international solidarity that's helping to solve its problems at the moment, and that it's probably a good time to show some empathy to its neighbors. this is also true of some of macedonia's other neighbours. i want you, mr. füle, to do well in skopje.
mr commissioner, as a member of the group of friends of macedonia, i naturally warmly welcome the main message of the resolution calling on the council to open negotiations. many have reservations, some of a historical nature, others of an ethnic nature, but in accordance with their expectations and interests, but i think that in the 21st century we must act differently, seek solutions towards peace and stability in the region. this is particularly important for the balkans. progress is undeniable, we have three successive reports from the european commission, last year's decision by the court of justice in the hague, and i think it is now the european union's turn to cut the gordian knot and allow macedonia to open accession negotiations. i believe that macedonia as a country is a mature personality, a mature entity, which is already taking on international obligations.
slovenia has been mentioned several times in recent days as an argument against croatia. i would like to say that slovenia did not block the start of the negotiation process and reacted only once, when croatia drew an unagreed border in the accession documentation. it then agreed with the commission that the bilateral issue would be resolved outside the context of the accession process. in that sense, i think it's a good example. i agree with the rapporteur that it is time for macedonia to move from the torture waiting room to the negotiating table. we can have very different opinions about the past, and rightly so, all over the world, but the past must not outweigh the will to have a common future. i hope that macedonia, which has made progress, will also be confirmed in the european spirit.
mr president, now that serbia has been granted candidate status and neighbouring croatia will join the eu next year, bosnia and herzegovina leaders should at last put an end to their internal conflicts along national lines. they need to reach a consensus on constitutional changes and strengthen state-level institutions so that they are capable of carrying out eu-related reforms and eventually accession negotiations. bosnia and herzegovina needs a proper government, not a council of ministers. some of the outstanding issues are the property of the bosnia and herzegovina military and the need to follow up the echr ruling on the sejdić-finci case. the newly-elected council of ministers is doing a good job by dealing with the burning economic issues and moving away from nationalistic discourse. unemployment and a balanced budget are the real issues that vjekoslav bevanda, the chair of the council of ministers (not a prime minister), is right to deal with. lastly, i would add that bosnia and herzegovina needs at least one new ministry at state level, a ministry of agriculture. agriculture is one of the most important topics of the negotiations, and bosnia needs to have adequate institutions to deal with this topic.
we have a great report ahead of us, and thanks to the years of hard work and expertise of our reporter doris pack. the report opens up and supports the european perspective of bosnia and herzegovina and this is the only right direction. i would like to join all my colleagues in saying that the reference to the wahhabis as a threat in bosnia and herzegovina is completely unnecessary. in fact, it misleads and somehow encourages doubt about some essence of bosnia and herzegovina, which has always been cultural, religious and ethnic diversity. i would end by thinking that the people of bosnia and herzegovina should be allowed to decide their own destiny, including the constitutional order of their country, to the greatest extent possible. with dayton ending the war in bosnia and herzegovina, it can't be the only taboo.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this joint resolution because i believe that we need to pay more attention to this growing disease, both in the member states and at the level of the european union as a whole. i also voted in the hope that, in the future, we will also focus on the wider causes of this disease, which has so far been uncontrollable.
in writing. − i welcome macedonia's progress on reforms and the clear will of the rapporteur and the commission to open accession negotiations with macedonia after an unreasonably long wait. i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution on the 2011 progress report on the former yugoslav republic of macedonia because it expresses the right and necessary political will. but i voted against amendments that put the past ahead of the will for a common european future that macedonia deserves.
in writing. − i voted again in favour of the motion for a resolution on the 2011 progress report of iceland because i welcome the european ambition of this country and am convinced that, despite the current internal political polarization on accession, this approach is beneficial for iceland and for the european union.
in writing. − i was pleased to vote for the realistic, balanced and open report by mrs pack, which provides the right political basis for the european perspective of this country.
last year, during the election, i had the opportunity to get to know nigeria in greater detail, which i consider to be one of the key partners of the european union. i regret that after the elections there are violent acts that destabilize the country, especially the spread of terrorism and intolerance towards christians. i am convinced that the relationship between christians and muslims is not a key internal political issue in nigeria, and i know that the vast majority of both sides want a peaceful, democratic and sustainable development of nigeria with full respect for internal diversity. for a peaceful and stable future in nigeria, three things are needed above all: improving the quality of governance in the spirit of social justice, respect for different identities and equitable development of the country. the sources of conflict development need to be addressed in a systematic and dynamic manner. it is necessary to join forces to prevent terrorism or the violent exercise of political will. i propose that the european union, in this spirit, strengthen cooperation with nigeria and that we also develop the parliamentary dimension of political cooperation. in conclusion, may i welcome his excellency the nigerian ambassador, mr barayo, who is present at this debate.
on behalf of the ppe group. for several years now, we have been dealing with the financial and economic crisis, which has pushed sustainable development into the background of the media. but europe has nevertheless continued its work in this area and we are well on the way to achieving the objectives we set. it may sound ambitious to talk about reducing emissions in these difficult times, but it's the right time to do it. the targets for 2020 have been set, and we will only achieve them with the energy efficiency directive. however, as the path to a low-carbon society is linked to investments in technologies with a life span of several decades, we need to show potential investors now what the direction of development of european society is by 2050. and we are leading the way to a low-carbon society. for us, this is the way to develop technologies, invest in knowledge and innovation and sustainable rural development. as we stand on the threshold of the new multiannual financial framework, the european budget must reflect these priorities. the commission will continue to support the european research area (era) in its efforts to develop and implement the european research area (era) in the field of research, in both agricultural and cohesion policy, and in support of the horizon 2020 research programme, as well as in a number of sectoral policies. in this report, we have managed to remain more technologically neutral than in many previous reports, and we have also put more emphasis on the international component and the responsibility of third countries to achieve the global goals. it is good that we have confirmed the ets as an important mechanism, as a market mechanism of the european union. this means that every recalibration of it means a change in climate goals. the ambition for higher targets is contained in the energy efficiency directive, which may be adopted by the middle of this year. any other change of objectives is unrealistic in the short term. this is also a way of ensuring the credibility of the european parliament. in this respect, several amendments have been prepared in cooperation with the rapporteur, and i invite you to support a realistic but still ambitious approach to the development of a low-carbon society. i think it is very important that the european parliament reaches a common position on the long-term development issues proposed by the european commission in its timetable. this is especially important in the face of the problems that are going on in the world, and where i personally think that maybe we should listen more sensitively to all the arguments that say that we need to be a little bit more careful with our ambitions sometimes. at the same time, i would also like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent leadership and coordination during this period, which has resulted in us finally producing a document that i believe is suitable for the european parliament to vote on.
human life is inextricably linked to water, and without it we can survive only a few days. yet, the provision of drinking water has not received enough attention. perhaps because most of the population in europe does not have these problems, but the problem of access to safe water is not just a problem of third countries, underdeveloped areas and poor sections of the population, but it is a real problem that developed societies will increasingly face as a result of population growth, urbanization, deforestation, unsustainable development. even countries that currently have abundant water resources cannot ignore global change and must seriously consider how to maintain good water quality. my country, slovenia, is among the top 20 countries in the world in terms of water per capita, but long-term droughts have also proved a problem here. this is not just a health problem for people, but also a problem for many economic sectors, and i support what our rapporteur, richard seeber, said that more attention will have to be paid to this problem.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this motion for a resolution because i believe that this parliament and the european union as a whole, in their desire to deepen partnership with russia, must be clear about the foundations that are a precondition for such a development.
in writing. − as a co-author, i voted in favour of the joint resolution, believing that nigeria, as a very important strategic partner of the european union, needs on the one hand to improve the quality and efficiency of governance by paying much more attention to the sources of conflict development, and on the other hand, more partner attention from the european union, especially in the fight against terrorism.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, on behalf of the danish presidency of the council it is a great pleasure to address this parliament once again, this time to review the integration progress of serbia. first of all, let me restate that the presidency very much appreciates parliament’s active engagement with the eu enlargement process. your active and constructive contribution to the general debate on enlargement and to serbia’s integration process in particular is a precious political asset to us. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank rapporteur kacin for his work. i would like to underline that the eu approach is rigorous but fair, delivering on its commitments against clear requirements. this was the case with croatia when we successfully concluded accession negotiations, and this was the case with serbia when the european council decided to grant candidate status to the country. these achievements show that the political drive behind the eu enlargement process policy continues to promote positive change and sustainable reforms. this process has over many years been a decisive positive factor for peace, security and prosperity throughout europe. on behalf of the danish presidency and the member states, i would like to welcome the work of this parliament, and in particular mr jelko kacin’s continuous commitment and positive contribution to the endeavour of advancing the enlargement policy of the european union. the significance of parliament’s work in particular to maintain the support of eu citizens for further enlargement must be underlined. i can assure you that we will pay particular attention to the views of the european parliament in this regard. the european council granted serbia candidate country status on 1 march this year. i visited belgrade as part of this process, both before and immediately after the decision was taken, and i can say that it was met with great appreciation by the president and the people of serbia. we welcome the fact that serbia and kosovo reached agreement on regional cooperation and the implementation of the integrated management for crossing points, the ibm. we are aware that there are temporary difficulties in implementing the regional cooperation agreement, and we are working to restore the situation and bring all parties back together. what is of the utmost importance for serbia now is to continue its good work on the eu reform agenda and to continue to actively implement the agreements reached within the framework of the eu-facilitated belgrade-priština dialogue. maintaining good relations with all its neighbours will bring stability to serbia and to the whole region. this remains a very important part of the integration process of serbia. it is clear from the opinion of the european commission of october 2011 that serbia has progressed towards fulfilling the copenhagen criteria and the conditions of the stabilisation and association process, and important steps have been taken towards establishing a functioning market economy and achieving macro-economic stability. however, as is reflected in your resolution, serbia needs to make further efforts to maintain the necessary degree of compliance with the membership criteria, with particular attention to the rule of law. let me end by recalling that regional cooperation and good neighbourhood relations are key to progress in the western balkans region. we therefore encourage belgrade to continue its active engagement in regional cooperation, and from the presidency’s point of view we are also looking forward to close cooperation with parliament and the commission, and with commissioner füle, in this regard.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is a great pleasure and honour for me to participate in today’s debate on the european integration process of serbia, not least because serbia was granted candidate status by the european council at the beginning of the month. i am most grateful to the rapporteur, mr jelko kacin, for having outlined comprehensively and accurately the many achievements, as well as the challenges, lying ahead of serbia. that serbia was granted candidate status is due firstly to the determination and vision of the serbian leadership; secondly, to the priority given by all serbian state institutions to the eu reform agenda; and thirdly, to their increasing efficiency in adopting and implementing key reforms, notably under the political criteria. at the pinnacle of these achievements were the significant and consistent efforts of president tadić to deliver on cooperation with the international criminal tribunal for the former yugoslavia and to foster a new spirit of cooperation and reconciliation in the region, including by effectively engaging in the belgrade/priština dialogue. we have now arrived at a major turning point in our relations with serbia. along with the forthcoming entry into force of the stabilisation and association agreement, these relations have been brought to a much higher level. i am confident that this will generate a new impetus for reforms and a new wind of change within all serbian institutions. ultimately, this gives a far better prospect to serbian citizens who are eager to live in a country where democracy and the rule of law prevail while its economy recovers and develops in the best possible environment. 2011 was an important year for serbia, a year of demanding challenges. 2012 will be equally paramount, as serbia is eager to open accession negotiations. qualifying for that major step will be the first task of the incoming government after the elections on 6 may. there is serious work ahead for serbia if the commission is to recommend opening accession negotiations in its next progress report. firstly, serbia is expected to deliver on the key priority: making further progress towards a visible and sustainable improvement in its relations with kosovo. this means in particular that serbia needs to implement – and stick to the letter and spirit of – all agreements reached to date in the dialogue with priština. secondly, we will need to see the momentum of reforms continuing in order to confirm that serbia sufficiently fulfils the political criteria. we are determined to continue our engagement with serbia. as long as the objective and criteria are clearly defined, i have strong faith in serbia’s capacity to mobilise itself and achieve the necessary additional progress to move towards accession negotiations. this will allow the negotiation process to push reforms and tackle even the most difficult challenges which lie ahead. i am convinced that, with our joint support, serbia will continue to embrace its european future. this will give a positive message to the whole region in order to consolidate peace and foster economic prosperity in the western balkans. thank you very much for your attention.
on behalf of the alde group. today we are discussing for the first time the progress made by serbia since it was granted candidate status in the accession negotiations for the european union. this is a major breakthrough for the country and the entire region. for serbian citizens, the european perspective has finally become tangible. i stress that this positive moment must be preserved in advance. i hope that the election campaign for the parliamentary elections in serbia will not affect the dialogue with pristina and the implementation of the agreements reached. the implementation of the agreement on common border controls is very important. i welcome the determination of the serbian authorities to ensure freedom of movement on the serbian side of the border. i welcome even more the cooperation of official belgrade with eulex and kafor and the more than obvious progress made after the incidents in northern kosovo in recent years. i believe that serbia is ready for accession negotiations. the country is headed by the european integration service, the most qualified administration in the region. if the new government demonstrates a commitment to reform and regional cooperation after the elections, negotiations need to start as soon as possible. at the same time, the serbian authorities must step up the fight against systemic corruption. the intertwining of political parties with private interests is still present and the state seems to be at the very beginning of these issues. judicial reforms should remove doubts about political influence on courts and prosecutors. i want to remember everything that the late, sad, verica barac, head of the anti-corruption council, did for serbia. mrs. barac died nine days ago. i wish that serbian leaders would show as much will and energy in fighting corruption and standing up for the rule of law as verika barac, who has been left alone in this fight too many times. nevertheless, it has demonstrated that independent institutions in serbia are able to carry out their work efficiently and professionally. the political will of the executive is always very important in the fight against corruption. the content of the resolution on serbia's progress, which we will be voting on tomorrow, is a message of encouragement and sympathetic criticism. i firmly believe that serbia will make faster progress once negotiations have been opened. it's up to belgrade to prove himself.
i am very pleased that the report welcomes the progress made by serbia with its reforms and the agreement with kosovo, thus fulfilling the conditions for the granting of candidate status. this progress is not only a very important formal step for serbia, but also proof that the european perspective is also being realised through the better neighbourhood policy. this fact provides the basis for confidence in the enhanced dynamics of the accession process by the consistent implementation of what has already been agreed. it is now very important that serbia continues the process of democratic transition in a spirit of respect for diversity, the rule of law, the social market economy and other european standards. the introduction of these standards means less corruption, more fair privatisation, more fairness and respect for different identities or minorities, and more women in positions of responsibility. this would also strengthen serbia's importance and performance as a very important regional player in a region where the past often overshadows the will for a new quality of coexistence and cooperation. i sincerely congratulate serbia on the progress it has made towards candidate status and i hope it will not wait long to start negotiations. i would like to congratulate the rapporteur, my colleague kacin, and the shadow rapporteurs on a job well done.
on behalf of the alde group. – mr president, i would like to congratulate madam lunacek on a good and well-balanced report. at long last, kosovo’s citizens receive some good news from brussels. a feasibility study has begun, as well as work on visa liberalisation. we need to ensure that these processes bear fruit in the near future. kosovo is the last country in the region whose citizens need visas for travelling in the schengen area. we need to do our part in order to put an end to this predicament as soon as possible. kosovo has engaged in a dialogue with serbia in good faith, and we should welcome their constructive approach. dialogue with belgrade is in the very best interests of kosovo, its citizens and the economy. both sides should continue the dialogue and implement the agreements fully. what kosovo urgently needs in addition is a dialogue between the serbian community in the north of kosovo and ethnic serbians living to the south of the ibar river. serbian culture has a strong presence in kosovo. the gap that has been opening between these two parts of the serbian community weakens it and makes the life of ethnic serbians in kosovo more difficult. at the same time, priština needs to reach out in good faith to the serbian community in the north and encourage their integration in a wider kosovo. belgrade needs to dispel ideas that the serbian-dominated north will in some way remain a de facto part of serbia proper. this will be difficult as long as certain member states do not change their position regarding the independence of kosovo. this is our part of the job if we seek stability in the region and coherence in our foreign policy. but what is of the utmost importance for kosovo’s future is that priština needs to engage in a dialogue with itself. systemic corruption and organised crime are a plague on the kosovo economy and the rule of law. much more needs to be done in this battle, where concrete results will make it possible for kosovo to have a stabilisation and association agreement soon. the political will of kosovo’s leaders will be crucial in these efforts.
i would like to thank mrs lunacka for her work and support for the only country in the region that does not have a treaty relationship with the union and is one of the most isolated in this part of europe, as its citizens still do not see the light at the end of the visa-free tunnel. the visa waiver will be particularly important for young people. when kosovo gets a visa waiver timetable in the spring, we need to make sure the process is fast, to help the authorities who have a lot of work to do. the dialogue with serbia must also be stepped up, following the agreement on kosovo's regional representation and joint border management. only the full recognition of kosovo will bring life back to normal. i am pleased that the commission has launched a feasibility study which will be a step towards closer integration with the union. young people need perspective, they need jobs. we need to strengthen the european consciousness among young people, fight corruption, fight organised crime, not only in kosovo, but in all the countries of the western balkans. but above all, we must be honest, on both sides.
turkey's potential membership of the european union is polarizing. we have experienced this again today and it will happen again, this state of mind, until we, as my colleague said, openly admit whether we want turkey in the european union, whether we can get it in the european union, or whether we do not want it. the fact that all greek and cypriot colleagues will be willing to participate in any debate, all of them, will also contribute to this state of mind. i think, however, that the basic criterion for determining whether a country is capable and suitable for accession to the european union is the acquis, the acquis communitaire. and until negotiations begin, we can't judge them by that standard. i think it is right to condemn the imprisonment of journalists and the persecution of intellectuals in turkey, but we must treat this country with some sympathy as a future, meaningful and important member of the european union.
president-in-office of the council. − mr president, let me start by acknowledging and welcoming parliament’s support for the efforts undertaken to advance montenegro’s prospects for eu integration. in particular, i welcome your rapporteur, charles tannock’s, continuous balanced and positive contribution. there is strong public support for montenegro’s eu integration as well as national consensus on this objective among the political parties. this has enabled the country to work systematically with the reform efforts. in december last year, both the council and the european council welcomed the commission’s assessment that montenegro has achieved overall satisfactory results, notably with regard to the key priorities set out by the eu in 2010. with a view to opening accession negotiations by june this year, the european council has tasked the council to examine montenegro’s progress in implementing reforms. among the focus areas are the rule of law, fundamental rights, the fight against corruption and organised crime. the commission is now preparing a report on the implementation, which it will most probably present in may. montenegro has achieved a high degree of compliance with the membership criteria. the country has progressed towards establishing a market economy and strives to live up to the obligations under the stabilisation and association agreement. montenegro’s relations with its neighbours are very good and montenegro has been actively involved in a number of regional initiatives, such as the southeast european cooperation process which montenegro chaired in 2010 and 2011. montenegro has also been actively involved in the sarajevo process on finding a solution for the refugees and internally displaced persons in montenegro, bosnia and herzegovina, serbia and croatia following the conflict in the 1990s. however, montenegro still has some way to go. it has to continue its reform efforts and ensure full implementation, especially concerning the rule of law. progress in this area is particularly needed when it comes to internally displaced persons, media freedom, implementation of anti-discrimination policies and independence of the judiciary. we look forward to the conclusions of the constitutional reform which will enhance independence of the judiciary. progress in the fight against corruption and organised crime will also be key to the advancement of montenegro in its eu integration process. i am convinced that we will see progress in these areas and that montenegro’s accession process will provide further positive momentum in the western balkans. with the historic agreements in the dialogue between pristina and belgrade, the decision of 1 march 2012 to grant candidate status to serbia and the ongoing smooth ratification process of croatia’s accession treaty, strong signals have been sent by the eu to the region and this will hopefully encourage neighbouring countries and regions to make the right political choices. if these reform efforts in montenegro continue at the same pace, it is my hope that this will be possible, and that we can agree to open accession negotiations with montenegro in june. we in the danish presidency will work closely with parliament and the commission to achieve that.
member of the commission. − mr president, it is a great pleasure and honour for me to address the european parliament today for the debate on the resolution on the 2011 progress report on montenegro. i would also like to express my warm gratitude and congratulations to the rapporteur for montenegro, charles tannock, on his excellent report. the decision of the december european council is a fair recognition of the progress the country has made over the five years since its independence, and in particular since december 2010 when it was granted european union candidate status. this decision has opened the door towards the start of accession negotiations. key to this success was the determination of the montenegrin authorities to conduct ambitious reforms, together with the active involvement of the parliamentary opposition, civil society and the media. i am positive that this broad national consensus on the country’s european integration is a major asset for montenegro. it will facilitate its continued steady progress towards the european union. i met the montenegrin prime minister, igor lukšić last week. his determination to pursue the reform process and commitment to sustained progress in the country’s european union agenda are commendable. i am further encouraged by our shared understanding that the opening of accession negotiations will not mark the end of a process, but the beginning of a long and demanding journey. as acknowledged in mr tannock’s report, montenegro has made significant progress so far, but needs to deploy further efforts in the area of rule of law, in particular in the fight against corruption and organised crime. the track record of final convictions, notably for high-level corruption and organised crime, needs to be substantially increased and all alleged cases thoroughly investigated. in line with the 2006 renewed consensus on enlargement, we know the importance of addressing these issues as early as possible in the accession process. the new approach for the negotiation chapters – 23 on the judiciary and fundamental rights, and 24 on justice, freedom and security – will allow them to be opened early in order to give montenegro sufficient time to produce a solid track record in the fight against organised crime and corruption. as i am speaking to you, the first explanatory phase of the screening of chapter 24 is taking place, while the one on chapter 23 took place earlier this week. a further important milestone for montenegro will be the finalisation of the ongoing constitutional reform, in line with the recommendations of the venice commission, in a spirit of consensus and constructive dialogue with the opposition parties. this will provide a solid guarantee for the independence and accountability of the judiciary. compliance with european standards in the field of human rights and minority rights is also of crucial importance, in particular regarding freedom of expression and anti-discrimination. the recent attack against an investigative journalist is unacceptable and needs to be thoroughly investigated, along with past cases of violence and vandalism directed against the media. further efforts are also needed to strengthen anti-discrimination policy, in particular from the aspect of gender equality and the effective protection of minority rights. efforts to increase the number of legally registered displaced persons also need to be actively pursued. the responsibility for addressing these outstanding challenges lies with montenegro and its capacity to maintain the pace of reforms and ensure their effective implementation. the commission will continue to support montenegro’s efforts on its path towards the european union through financial and expert assistance.
on behalf of the alde group. i thought that as a liberal, mr. chairman, you had deliberately stopped the clock so that we could talk a little longer. i would like to thank mr tannock as rapporteur for his excellent cooperation, including that of all the other shadow rapporteurs. the good news for montenegro and for us is that negotiations will finally begin in early june. there is every reason to believe that montenegro is well prepared. cohesion in society is also established with the aim of european union. on the positive side, montenegro begins with one of its most difficult chapters, chapter 23. the acquisition of the assets of the bank will be completed in the course of the year. this is true of judicial reform, the creation of effective institutions to combat corruption, which has also attracted the attention of many of my colleagues in this parliament. the positive role of montenegro in regional cooperation should be emphasised. i too, as a rapporteur, believe that the agreement with croatia to refer the open question of the overlays to the hague tribunal is the result of a sound and wise decision. we also welcome the actions of the montenegrin government to ensure modern and effective freedom of expression, to prevent attacks on journalists, and to ensure democratic tolerance towards minorities of all kinds in society. some of these issues are new to montenegrin society, but they are urgent and certainly welcome. it is time for this small, infinitely beautiful country with its rich history and culture to take a decisive step towards a united europe.
transparent and responsible corporate governance and the issue of trust are important foundations for managing the economic and social crisis. citizens are expected to take responsibility for past bad practices and to put an end to them in the future. responsible for corporate mismanagement and takeovers, bankruptcies and job losses, as well as for irresponsible bank behaviour. the sensitivity of citizens, shareholders, to the management of companies also stems from the savings they experience on their own. this raises expectations of transparency and social responsibility. the report stresses that companies should provide equal opportunities for men and women in training and career advancement, and that europe must do more to create the conditions and mechanisms in a social environment in which women can be mothers, wives and have a career at the same time.
(introduction of sentence not yet specified) ... the european commission's proposal to continue the distribution of food to the most vulnerable in the european union. in 2008, we were hit by a crisis, and now, four years later, the situation in many member states is even worse: more people are poor, more people are hungry and more people are at risk. the european union must remain united. this means that we must take measures to revive the economy, but we must not forget the people in need. i have to say that in my country, in the country i come from, which is slovenia, in some areas the situation is so bad that the charities have already stopped distributing food because it is running out. so, of course, such action by the european union is very welcome. above all, of course, this assistance must be timely, effective and rapid.
i would like to welcome the annual report of the european investment bank, in particular as the bank provided more than eur 25 billion to european regions most affected by the economic crisis in 2010 and increased the volume of structural loan programmes. it is essential that this practice continues in the future. the role that such loans, risk-sharing instruments and project bonds can play in supporting public investment is very important in the recovery of the european economy. the european investment bank must continue to work with the european commission and the european parliament, and i welcome today's discussion, and to offer a wide range of innovative financial instruments not only to countries facing financial and economic crises, but also in the future to those with good financial discipline and to convergence regions. and finally, just my personal congratulations to president hoyer on his election to the new post.
madam president, it has come to my knowledge that serbia has not yet sent the signed agreement on integral border management (ibm) to the eu facilitator of the belgrade/pristina dialogue, mr robert cooper. this agreement was reached on 24 february in the dialogue with pristina and was one of the key reasons serbia was granted candidate status on 1 march. pristina sent the official and signed copy of the agreement to mr cooper while belgrade has not yet done so. implementation of the ibm is of utmost importance; belgrade needs to act. i call on the serbian government to hand in these documents and thereby keep its credibility and demonstrate its commitment to implementation of the agreement. i speak on behalf of all the shadow rapporteurs, whom i thank for their constructive work on the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it is a strong statement by the european parliament on the side of the human person, his rights and the democratic and economic reforms that are necessary in this country.
in writing. − i was pleased to vote in favour of the progress report on serbia, as serbia has made clear progress and thus fulfilled the conditions for obtaining candidate status. serbia has undoubtedly strengthened its european perspective through dialogue with kosovo, which cannot be achieved without good relations with its neighbours.
in writing. − i supported this report as a supporter of the european perspective for all the western balkan countries and as a supporter of the continuation of the dialogue between serbia and kosovo in the european spirit of good neighbourliness.
in writing. - i supported the report by mrs rie oomen-ruijten because it expresses a correct and open attitude towards turkey as a candidate country. i voted in favour of the report also because it contains some of my amendments, among which i welcome the one which clearly concretises the positive attitude towards visa liberalisation.
in writing. − i voted with satisfaction in favour of the enlargement report for montenegro, as it reflects the progress of that country in its accession efforts.
the question with the blue card. i am sure that mr posselt will be able to give a creative answer to my question. does he not think that we in europe will be credible in standing up for the rights of christians all over the world if we are equally attentive to the rights and dignity of the members of other religions living among us in europe and in the western hemisphere? we have had many cases where representatives of other religions have been rightly affected by humiliation and by the abuse of their religious feelings.
even a report as excellent as mr howitts' report cannot cover all the problems and cases of human rights violations. but i think it is right to point out one specific violation that has been going on for decades, and that is in western sahara. the way of life in the refugee camp is not an acceptable way of life, and i think that we need to draw attention to this problem and to the delay in finding a political solution. mrs ashton, i would like to remind you that there are 83 political prisoners from western sahara in moroccan prisons and that the security council will be discussing the mandate of minurso, the only un mission not mandated to monitor human rights. i'm asking you to make a case to make this right.
mr vice-president, madam vice-president of the commission and high representative, ladies and gentlemen, i thank the vice-president for her clear words and join many foreigners around the world in welcoming the april parliamentary elections in burma as a very important step towards democratization. this political shift, which has been desired, demanded and necessary for decades, was first of all in the interest of the burmese people and was also insisted upon by the international democratic public, together with the european union. i would like to see this not as a political concession by the current authorities, but as a promising start to a process that should be aimed at improving the political, economic and social situation of the country and its role in the regional and wider context. such developments would strengthen the people's hope for the future of burma, allow for the lifting of sanctions and stimulate international support for democratisation and economic progress. i suggest we keep a close eye on any progress burma makes in this direction.
as a long-time economist, i have a different feeling about this economic crisis that's affecting businesses today, and a different feeling about economists who have little control over external factors. the workers, of course, are afraid for their jobs, and i agree with the rapporteur on this point, and i give her all the credit for wanting to make progress while keeping in touch with reality. because as mr seeber said, this directive comes at a difficult time today. and we must respond to these difficult times with the minimum changes that are acceptable for today, that are acceptable for the economy, for the citizens of europe.
on behalf of the s&d group. implementation of programmes financed by the structural funds requires the participation of public and private investors. in member states seriously affected by the financial and economic crisis, the downgrading of both public and private debt has also led to the cessation of private financing. the proposed measure therefore constitutes an exception to the normal framework of cohesion regulation and is justified solely on the basis of exceptional crisis circumstances. the european commission and the european investment bank will both cover part of the risk associated with bank lending through european risk-sharing instruments. the adoption of this measure seeks to maintain the participation of private investors and to overcome significant obstacles to the implementation of cohesion policy programmes already approved and aimed at the development of european regions and countries, so that the european budget will not have any additional obligations. the purpose of the proposed measure is therefore to ensure the continuation of the implementation of projects co-financed by the european regional development fund and the cohesion fund. greece is one example, with projects already in place to use this mechanism and is just waiting for our green light. it is important to emphasise that the initiative for the measure in question came from the member states most affected, and we, the elected representatives of the people, must therefore listen to such proposals and facilitate their rapid, effective and transparent implementation. the european parliament is thus taking a concrete part in dealing with the consequences of the crisis in the member states which need us most at this time.
i come from slovenia, and it's of great importance to my country, of great importance are these maps that define the natural limits of agriculture. and yet i would like to take this opportunity to support the request of my colleagues who say that not only biophysical criteria are sufficient in the designation of these areas, but socioeconomic criteria must also be introduced in the designation of these areas. but i would like to emphasize something that has not been emphasized until today: the serious demographic problem we have in the european union, and the lack of young farmers involved in agricultural production, is one of the biggest problems for the future of european agriculture. i recently had a public debate in parliament on this subject and it turned out that only six per cent of young people under 35 in europe are actively involved in agriculture, and that is of course far too low. i therefore propose that this mechanism should include a similar criterion.
thank you to the rapporteur, mr lászló tőkés, for a very well-written report. this is a surplus and, in addition to the reports already adopted in this field, it is further evidence of the european parliament's efforts to modernise the european higher education area. for centuries, universities have been the source, the source of progress and the cradle of values in europe. and that's how it has to stay in the future, when we talk about the third generation of universities, the third mission of universities. they must therefore open up more, especially to the economy, and create, as tőkés says, a coalition of knowledge. we must also make efforts in the economic sphere to improve the dialogue with universities. it must disclose what competencies and skills it needs in order to update its curricula and study programmes. this will ensure consistency. let me also welcome the creation of a new tool for u-multirank, which is supposed to be a comprehensive ranking, as a scale, better than what we have now.
i asked to speak because i want to say that i too agree that there are specificities in the relationship between women and climate change. but i agree with my colleague christo klass, who said that we should not get lost in the details, but that we should identify those important priorities, those important questions. education is important to me. we know, there's a saying: educate a man and you have one educated man, educate a woman and you have an educated family. so education is very important. then awareness, because women can influence patterns of behavior. the third point, which i think is very important, is that women are the victims of natural disasters to a much greater extent, and we should pay greater attention to this when we talk about european union development aid. and finally, i would like to mention a very big problem, which is the representation of women in decision-making bodies. i myself support all efforts and proposals to increase the participation of women in decision-making bodies in general.
preparatory opinion of the committee on industry, research and energy. − the iter committee reaffirmed in its opinion that environmental protection and economic development are not in conflict of interests, but that the coexistence of the two constitutes sustainable development. biodiversity has not only environmental protection and a healthy environment, but also socioeconomic value. and that needs to be emphasized in these times of crisis. the rich, diverse nature is also an inexhaustible source of new knowledge and inspiration for innovation and thus for the development of new skills, jobs and business opportunities. biodiversity should therefore be given a greater horizontal role in european policies. let me just mention some of the policies that fall under the purview of our committee. in energy and industrial policy, biodiversity is part of the sustainable use of resources. the development of information technologies can also be an opportunity to preserve biodiversity. we have paid particular attention to the importance of research policy, where we have supported increased investment in this area. science can help us to better understand biodiversity and the interaction of different factors. in particular, we welcome the establishment of the platform for business and biodiversity and encourage the commission to further develop the platform. it thus encourages greater cooperation between public administrations and businesses in europe, including smes. at the same time, we specifically point out the inconsistencies in the preparation of infrastructure strategy papers and call on the european commission to prepare a green infrastructure strategy as soon as possible. we thank rapporteur gerbrandy and the envi committee for having taken account of most of our proposals.
today we're talking about legislation that will accelerate the adoption of mobile services by citizens and businesses. we want to achieve a high level of consumer protection on the one hand and the functioning of the internal market on the other. the setting of price caps is of course not a measure that would be detrimental to the market. it is therefore not surprising that we had a lot of discussions before the first regulation was adopted in 2007. but our findings were clear: the market for cross-border services is not working. this is why the first regulation with price caps for calls was adopted, and it has achieved good results. the citizens are very positive about our measure and he's one of the people who knows it best. however, reassessments of the mobile market show that the market is still not competitive. the number of mobile phone users is increasing. they're just getting more and more powerful, with more and more applications. we can use them to provide a growing range of services. millions of citizens in europe use mobile phones every day to talk, send and receive sms messages, browse the web, help themselves in their private lives, and increasingly in the business world. this also means that the group of potential users of roaming services is constantly growing. but unfortunately, a large number of europeans still turn off their mobile services abroad for fear of high bills. we wish this hadn't happened. and today we tell them: in less than two months, the prices of cross-border mobile services will fall again due to the new regulation. there is a strong support in the committee responsible for the regulation and the price reduction, but this is not the only measure. we are also proposing structural measures to speed up the real functioning of the mobile services market and to give users even more choice. and i really, really hope that by 2015 the market really comes alive and we don't have to interfere with it with such drastic measures as price caps. and congratulations to our reporter.
this directive is a gift to european citizens on the occasion of europe day. they will feel it in their pocket, where the european feeling is best, because they will be able to make calls, send messages and transfer data much cheaper than before. i congratulate the rapporteur, angelica niebler, commissioner neelie kroes and the cooperation council for sticking to the ambition that started in the previous mandate and showed that the european union works. seven years ago, i complained to commissioner viviane reding about the unreasonably high roaming charges and suggested that the commission take action in favour of mobile phone users. this was the beginning of the road to a directive which, a few years later, despite the strong resistance of mobile operators, gradually reduced the cost of roaming. the realists said we couldn't do it. this directive is not only about paying attention to users and, in particular, to their holiday budgets, it is also about contributing to greater competitiveness. it simply means more europe. i'm sure there are other areas where something similar can be done. thank you very much, and i'll give you 30 seconds for the speaker who speaks longer.
we could have learned a lesson last year when we witnessed a number of tragedies at sea with boats overloaded with migrants, but apparently we didn't. we can expect more if we do not take drastic measures and if european governments do not respond responsibly. i am glad that the approach of the italian government has changed, as mentioned by mrs borsellino. i was on a delegation to lampedusa myself. this year alone, according to the united nations refugee agency, at least 13 different ships with 100 refugees have landed on the italian coast. meanwhile, the island of lampedusa, the first gateway to europe, remains dangerous. it didn't seem to me that the center of the island was so badly damaged that it couldn't be rebuilt last year. now we hear that it will be rebuilt, but we want to know the date - when? today we want to know. we cannot allow rescued migrants to become victims of detention on boats, as happened last year off the coast of the closed island of lampedusa. on the island, immigrants now stay in a holiday home, waiting for more than a month before they can apply for asylum. many are in terrible health after being tortured in libya. volunteers pay for their medication, many of the new arrivals have post-traumatic experiences. we need a quick solution for the island, we need better implementation of asylum and migration policy in the union, i agree. today, colleagues, we are celebrating europe day. let us stand for an open europe, a europe that will not turn a blind eye to the plight of desperate immigrants.
having spent a large part of my life in the economy, i would imagine that we are dealing with the 2011 discharge today, not the 2010 discharge, because after all this time it is difficult to talk about the deviations and the urgent corrections that need to be made. every day, citizens are hearing about growth and saving, and so the agencies, which are of great importance to the member states, should also focus on their own consumption, on their own cost reduction, on saving. there are certainly many opportunities here, but also more efficiency and responsiveness for citizens.
in writing. − i am very pleased to support this regulation, which provides for further reductions in roaming charges in the field of crossborder telecommunications services. this regulation is not only about paying attention to users and, in particular, to their holiday budgets, it is also about contributing to greater competitiveness.
the report by mr simon busuttil is certainly welcome, given the 20th anniversary of the internal market and the seriousness of the crisis. finally, we have to realize that we are less competing within europe with each other, but we are more oriented towards competing with other global competitors, such as the bric group. and so i welcome all these initiatives and put more emphasis, perhaps, on the intensity of communication. because the portals are everywhere, they're in every country, but in these portals, believe me, even the people who are responsible for this, they don't communicate enough. they have too little communication in advance, both verbally and verbatim, so perhaps only a few percent of smes are aware of it, and the rest are virtually excluded.
speed is the most important thing today. speed for companies struggling to survive and grow. on the other hand, there's a slightly slower pace coming from the institutions. and of course, smes depend on time and simplification. in addition, if we want to motivate more young people to become entrepreneurs, we need to encourage them and we need to give more skills or more of these opportunities in the education system itself. sixty percent of young people, according to surveys, in my country, slovenia, have not had the opportunity to receive entrepreneurship education. and finally, the information of all 23 million companies. we know that the channels of communication may still be too limited for everyone.
question posed with the blue card to mrs roith. i'd like to ask mrs. roith a question for one reason only. not because this debate is dragging on, but because i think it is important that we have a balanced debate in this parliament, not an ideological one, which will benefit ukraine in particular and the ukrainian people in particular, and bring them closer to us. to get closer to their european dream, one way or another. ms. roithová, i'd like to ask you: you have referred to legislation that allows abuse and puts the prosecution, the court and so on in a situation that is not up to our standards. but what has the government led by mrs. tymoshenko done to change the legislation on the basis of which it ruled, which was the same legislation from the stalin era? and then, of course, the bottom line: it was wrong to imprison tymoshenko, and it's wrong how she's being treated in ukraine.
i fear that by heating up debates in the european parliament at events such as the olympic games, various sports championships, the eurovision song contest and so on, we are in fact demonstrating our inability to conduct a consistent dialogue with partner countries on the basis of our own principles, on the basis of our own values. it is clear that the political culture in the countries in transition in and around europe is very low. it's becoming normal for former members of governments to be prosecuted, for them to be jailed, for current and former politicians to be accused of corruption. i think that we should also show a little more sensitivity in the european parliament. don't be so passionate when it comes to defending your own and criticizing others.
i support the commission's position on the conditions for ukraine's cooperation with the european union. i think of yulia tymoshenko and her fight for a fair trial as written by the slovenian writer prežihov voranc in samorastniki. two hundred years ago, a slovenian woman fought for the rights of children and for her own rights. and yulia tymoshenko is fighting for a fair trial today, and let's help her do it.
in writing. − as a member of the convention on the future of europe, i was happy to support the idea of a citizens' initiative years ago, and today i am in favour of clarifying the parliamentary rules on this subject. i am convinced that this clarification will be beneficial for european citizens' initiatives.
in writing. − i voted against the introduction of a financial transaction tax because i believe that it is not wise to introduce new taxes and place additional burdens on economies in a time of deep financial and economic crisis.
in writing. − i support the report because it advocates partnership cooperation between the european union (eu) and china, consistently based on the values and principles of the ec. i think it is important to emphasise reciprocity as the basis for a new partnership, as well as fair play in relation to market access and international competition.
at the moment, there are about 24.8 million unemployed in europe, of which 5.5 million are young people, and one may ask whether this is the right topic to discuss. in my view, it is, because it is very much linked to the health of the economy, because it has to have the raw materials available when it needs them, and at a price that allows it to be competitive. and since our continent is not rich in raw materials, we must be even more economical with them. but what does it mean to be economical with our resources? any suggestions in the report to eat less, drive less, create less, raise taxes are not acceptable in my view. the only solution is to use raw materials efficiently, and we must see this as an opportunity, as an opportunity to develop new industries, to open new businesses, to create new jobs. these proposals were made years ago and the european parliament will adopt its opinion tomorrow after several months of deliberation on this initiative. i stress this because there have been voices recently that we are talking about saving and have forgotten about economic recovery. we didn't, it was just pushed into the media background. at this point, we don't need another pact to get the economy going. people don't need him. to get the economy going, we need to start delivering on the promises we made as soon as possible. the multiannual european budget must also be drawn up in line with the needs, the guidelines and the priorities. and it's not good to tell people that a low budget is a good budget. it must be high enough to enable us to implement development policies. some good measures are already contained in this report, such as the implementation of legislation, the establishment of robust, clear and measurable indicators, incentives to increase research and technological innovation. commissioner, please continue to work in this direction.
the european commission has given us a good basis for a good report. i congratulate the rapporteur and the commissioner on their efforts and courage in the right direction. we obviously share the belief that without a shift towards more resource-efficient management, we cannot expect sustainable growth. while the general guidelines are sound, i welcome first of all the inclusive and project-based approach, which is of vital concern to legislators, producers, operators, educators and civil society. i am particularly pleased with the call for a system of indicators on the efficient use of natural resources. without them, we would not be able to measure the progress of our efforts. i also support the intention to include resource efficiency objectives in the european semester on economic policy coordination. i also support the intention to abandon all environmentally harmful subsidies. i am convinced that resource efficiency not only means a more responsible attitude towards nature, but also brings new jobs, new technologies and new development impulses. i welcome the will to remove the obstacles to the functioning of the european recycling market. but we're first identified in a report on reducing animal protein intake. this is not only about reducing land use, but also about reducing the harmful health effects of animal protein. i am glad that the report also draws attention to the global aspect of resource management.
the hard work is done, because the situation with resources in europe can be perceived in the same way as a person suffering from a chronic illness. he has to change his whole way of life. some manage to do so and even live longer than average, while others succumb to the pressure of comfort and succumb to illness, which quickly takes its toll on well-being and shortened life spans. it is difficult, but necessary, to understand that in a crisis we must create more, increase growth, and at the same time consume fewer resources. sustainable economic growth is realistically more possible in times of crisis than in times of plenty. it's known from history that the time of plenty itself is a curb on creativity. it is important to approximate the measurable and understandable effects that every european can achieve with a changed lifestyle. it's also the biggest opportunity for us politicians to engage the whole of society. we're also opening doors wide for researchers, for innovators. europe is a prime location for research because of its enterprises, knowledge, well-developed markets and, above all, its ability to cope with complexity. connectivity, innovation and resource efficiency will reduce our dependency and create new jobs.
question asked by raising the blue card. mrs. girling, i have a question for you. what do you propose that politics can do to make it possible for a woman to be a wife, a mother and a career at the same time?
today is may 24th for men and april 30th for women. this is, of course, an unacceptable, unacceptable difference. why is this happening? are women less educated? no, i'm not going. in all member states, there are more women than men with tertiary education. even if we look at university education, for every 100 men who have a university education, there are 145 women who have a university education. so what's the reason? is that why women work less? no, that's not the reason either. according to a survey carried out for slovenia, men have an average of 27 hours of leisure time per week, and women 21 hours. there are solutions, we can't say there isn't one. and mrs bauer has dealt with this issue very systematically and has also put solutions in her report. i think it is a little too detailed for the european level, it introduces too much administration. and we need to focus on the bottom line. and that, in my view, is gender-neutral legislation and payment systems, a legal regime that clearly prohibits discrimination, then surveillance, and then sanctions for violations.
in slovenia, my country, we regret the decision of switzerland. the measure is discriminatory and sad for a country that was considered a country with a democratic tradition. the labour market situation and the number of immigrants from the european union do not justify this. it's shameful to read that the far-right in switzerland used a poster showing black workers' boots trampling the swiss flag in an anti-immigrant referendum campaign. the swiss government's action is contrary to what switzerland has agreed to. freedom of movement is a key pillar of the construction of european integration. all citizens of the union have the same rights. we must not allow europeans to be intimidated, as we have seen in the netherlands and belgium. we must clearly condemn extreme populist and nationalist rhetoric and fight against all forms of discrimination. the spread of hateful ideas is especially dangerous in the midst of financial, economic, and social crises. i expect the swiss government to reconsider its decision thoroughly, and if i do not expect clear action from the european commission, why not withdraw from other contracts with switzerland on the internal market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because it sets out very concretely the approach to the economic management of natural resources in line with the europe 2020 objectives. i am pleased that it brings a very inclusive and project-based approach, calls for the removal of barriers to the internal recycling market and for the abandonment of environmentally harmful subsidies.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i believe that in a time of crisis, attention is particularly needed for the younger generation, which is facing major employment problems.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this report because i believe that the directive in question needs to be revised in order to eliminate as soon as possible the gender pay gap or discrimination.
in writing. − i voted in favour of this resolution because i want switzerland's attitude towards workers from the new member states to be fully in line with the commitments or legal framework as agreed between the european union and switzerland.
madam president, serbian citizens elected a new president on 20 may 2012. mr tomislav nikolić pledged throughout his campaign that he will keep serbia firmly on the path towards eu membership. given mr nikolić’s nationalist past, all regional leaders in the eu should closely monitor his first acts as president. serbia will continue to have a reliable and strong partner in brussels and in parliament if its commitment to regional reconciliation and good neighbourly relations develops further. mr nikolić’s visit to brussels on 14 june 2012 is of great importance for the whole of the western balkans as well. at the same time, the serbian parliament parties need to get their act together and form an efficient government soon. i hope that the outcome of the ongoing negotiations will result in a deal that brings a stable and strong pro-european parliamentary majority. i hope that the new national assembly will execute its oversight powers more aggressively in the future. serbia needs an active parliament if it is to meet its challenges in the european integration processes. the new government will need to deal decisively with the debt crisis, unemployment and, above all, with the systemic corruption which is blocking the serbian economy and serbia’s society. i hope that accession negotiations with serbia will open fairly soon, because serbian leaders will be in a position to tackle the country’s problems in a more transparent and efficient way.
the crisis is certainly not going to subside on its own, it's not going to subside, and this twin could also be subtitled, "health for growth". because without prevention, which is hard to call prevention today, it becomes curative, it becomes expensive healing of past wounds. there could be better controls based on existing legislation, looking back, but we can all be smart in retrospect, we have to think about tomorrow, we have to think about not burdening new generations, young generations, with additional debt. of course, growth will come from being able to be in tight budgets, in tight budgets with tight credit and tight deficits. and that's the future.
in writing. - i am pleased that the vast majority of meps today supported the report by our italian colleague marco scurrie. the broad political support shows that the various political groups are well aware of the enormous importance of voluntary work for the development of society. volunteering contributes to solidarity and cohesion in society, to greater civic engagement and is one of the important forms of non-formal learning, as volunteers acquire new knowledge and skills while working. finally, it expresses compassion for fellow humans - a value that is often forgotten in today's world. last year's year of volunteering also coincides with this year's european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. i agree with mr scurrio that volunteering and solidarity are quietly taking over as a catalyst for the social change we so badly need. i was also happy to support the report because it supports concrete actions such as the european skills passport and the european voluntary humanitarian aid unit. these and other measures will make the work of europe's 100 million volunteers easier, give them additional recognition for their contribution to society and attract new volunteers to their ranks.
thank you, ms. ashton, for your assessment and for your continuous monitoring of the situation in syria. the easiest way to say that i agree with most of what my colleague mr arlacchi has just said. it's also the easiest to be horrified, and to be horrified, by the scenes of murder, mass murder, killing of children, women in syria. but reason should tell us that we must ask ourselves who is doing it and why is he doing it. who's interest is it in? who's the winner and who's the loser? we must pursue a policy that leads forward, that leads to peace, that leads to reconciliation. the path to reconciliation is not through renewed violence, military intervention, or a rash and radical assessment of things. i think that the massacres should be investigated, that it should be established precisely and objectively who is carrying them out, in whose service - something that you also stressed in your statement the other day. i think that the european union must keep a cool head here, act in a real way and thereby increase its influence and its standing in the world.
in its assessment of the national reform programme of slovenia, the commission noted that no major structural reforms had been adopted in the previous year. however, with market pressures intensifying, lasting fiscal consolidation is even more urgent than it was a year ago. although i agree with most of the commission's analysis, i cannot support it, mainly for two reasons. and that is, first of all, i lack an analysis of the impact that austerity measures will have on people's well-being. lack of pressure on labour market reforms with a focus on youth and youth unemployment. and not just in the slovenian rating, but in most other ratings as well. i call on the commission to include the issue of youth unemployment as one of the sub-objectives of the europe 2020 strategy in the european semester as soon as possible. secondly, as a member of the european parliament, i have virtually no influence on the european semester process, which is currently used to put pressure on the member states and impose long-term policy prescriptions, because they go beyond the principle of subsidiarity. the political debate on the commission's proposals must be opened up, the democratic legitimacy of the european semester must be enhanced and the european parliament's voice must be brought, by means of an interinstitutional agreement, at least closer to that of the commission and the council.
new jobs are in our heads, they are in the ideas of millions of young people looking for work. many people don't have the courage to put their ideas into practice, many people don't know how. job opportunities may be in human health support products and services, as recommended by the commissioner and the commission in its statement. a group of young people in slovenia have invented a mobile app for the blind and visually impaired to help them with their daily tasks. from invention to end user is a long journey, it requires a lot of persistence, a lot of financial resources, and the role of politics is to facilitate that journey. entering the global market for mobility solutions for people with special needs is certainly a pathway to new jobs.
on behalf of the ppe group. i will never forget the shocking sight of dead fish in a river that i once experienced. it was caused by a fire and a leak of hazardous substances. we live in a time when we can and do prevent these kinds of accidents with the best available technology. security is also supported by powerful information technologies. are we sufficiently aware of all the ways in which accidents can be prevented? i therefore welcome the report and congratulate the rapporteur. it may also be appropriate to highlight more clearly the impact of accidents on animal health. legislation alone has not brought about changes for the better. we need to put more energy into communicating about prevention and about emergencies. inhaling vapors and aerosols containing hazardous substances can have long-term consequences that are not even noticeable in the short term. environmental health, human health, animal health, nature is only one, we only know it when we lose it. after exposure to harmful substances, it's difficult to restore it to its original state.
as a shadow reporter for the snd, i would like to thank mrs. kratz for her work and for the report she prepared. increasing investment in the european union at a time when we are trying to dig ourselves out of the depths of the crisis is of paramount importance. we need common guidelines, we need to put ideas into practice, starting with investments as early as possible in youth employment, in greening our economies and in achieving the development goals of europe's regions and municipalities. in my amendments to the report, i support the broad strategy of focusing on generating new investment, in particular through cohesion policy at local and regional level, because i am convinced that this is the only way to generate growth and is one of the main sources of financing for the real economy in the european union. in addition, the european union needs a new and better industrial policy that will attract private investors from all over the world, not just within the european union.
thank you very much, mr. president, and congratulations to the council on the decisions, especially those related to growth and new jobs. but the question remains how to reconcile youth unemployment with the prolongation of working life for older people. this is a challenge for the whole of europe. and the challenge is to keep building trust. trust, not division, division between 17 and 27 members. the only way we can compete with the outside world is if we can stick together and not have the word "division" in front of us all the time.
question asked by raising the blue card. mrs gallo, unlike you, i am extremely pleased today that we are having this debate under pressure - under pressure from tens, hundreds of thousands of young people who are intelligent, who are moving in the it world, who know about the internet and these freedoms much more than we do. i would never underestimate their opinion. (the chairman interrupted the speaker.) the question is: do you really think that while we are in a situation where the eyes of several hundred thousand young people in europe are watching our debate we can afford to underestimate them and to tell them that, no matter what they are saying and asking us, to reject acta is just rubbish as your colleague just said?
question asked by raising the blue card. mrs lichtenberger, i would like to ask you a question about your confidence in the european commission. she said that the entry into force of the acta would not change european law. so you think the european commission is lying, you don't trust it? i'm curious about your opinion of the european court. do you trust him? do you trust him? and why not wait for the european court of justice to decide, why are we in such a hurry? what have we got to lose in the meantime?
i've had a lot of people reach out to me about acto. i told them that i would consider the open questions carefully and then make my decision. after everything i've seen and heard, i don't see enough reason to support acto. it's just not clear enough to me. that doesn't mean i'm not aware of the issues of piracy and counterfeiting that need to be effectively addressed in another way. the problem i see is that the acta does not address the key sources of unfairness. i don't count piracy and counterfeiting as part of the freedom of the internet. we need to do things differently. we should also agree on what is and is not part of the freedom of the internet. i know what the lisbon treaty says, but i think it would be good or useful, nevertheless, if the european parliament, which also has very close links with civil society, were consulted on such important matters at an earlier stage.
people look at us and trust us to listen to them. there are very few of us in the room. it is our responsibility to make our political decision here tomorrow. people have made it very clear they don't want acte. they fear, and rightly so, an encroachment on their rights. they're confused, there's too much ambiguity. we want to fight counterfeiting and protect intellectual property, but we need more creative and effective ways. the european court of justice should not be an excuse for delaying a decision. five parliamentary committees have rejected the international agreement. it is very clear to the european parliament that 'acta is ad acta'. the agreement was not negotiated democratically and transparently. europeans are more afraid than they are hopeful that acta will effectively protect rights and tackle online piracy. let me conclude with a thought from one of the famous slovenian internet strategists at the brussels conference. the acta protects those who remained during the cave paintings. that's why we have to say no to acta tomorrow.
today, after this debate, i am even more convinced that acta is being politically abused. this is about winning political support, regardless of the consequences of unprotected intellectual property on the eu. they were exposed to mostly negative aspects. we haven't had a conversation about what's good about acta and why we need it. i am thinking not only of the security aspects but also of the loss of, say, eight billion euros a year and what this means for jobs in the european union, where we know that there is a huge unemployment, and especially among young people. i take seriously the doubts about the violation of human rights and therefore i think we should wait for the decision of the european court. in fact, i am appalled by the complete lack of confidence in this area, since many people do not seem to trust the experts who have worked in the member states to draft this act. they don't trust commissioner de gucht, and they say that we don't really need him at all for the european court. tomorrow we will make decisions based on our minds and our feelings, not on expert opinions.
mr president, i congratulate you on your performance and on your wisdom, which you also showed when you told us not to export our understanding and our recipes for solving the crisis. certainly, we will expect a great deal from cyprus when it comes to the crisis area of the middle east. you're close to him, and you understand him better than we do. cyprus has an excellent diplomacy. it was also for some time led by my esteemed colleague, cassolides, who today has reacted somewhat, i would say, harshly and unfairly to the speech of our leader, mr. graham watson. mr president, i can assure you that we do not approve of turkey's attitude and position on the cyprus presidency, but turkey would probably also have a more reasonable position if we were more open to it. in conclusion, i would just like to ask you: as a small country, do something in your presidency for macedonia's european perspective.
in writing. − i supported the report on the proposal for a regulation on organic production and labelling because i support the commission's intention to introduce clearer rules for producers and consumers. these rules will help consumers to determine the quality of products or products.
in writing. - i voted against acta (anti-counterfeiting trade agreement) because it is too vague, allows for very different interpretations of the consequences of adoption and does not address the main sources of counterfeiting. the european union needs to tackle the highly important issue of safeguarding intellectual property in a different way.
in slovenia, we read the addresses, or we'll travel with passports again. people are worried about losing their freedom of movement. the crisis is a strong principle of trust of our citizens. we have spent decades trying to make the union a place of freedom of movement. the decision of the governments to exclude parliament from the decision on the temporary introduction of controls in the schengen area is unacceptable, whatever the explanations. any change to european borders requires a european decision. it cannot be decided by a few people in a room without democratic control. how do we stop governments from bowing to right-wing populism? we've had some bad experiences. every year, more than a billion of us travel across the union as tourists. we're visiting friends or relatives, so we don't need passports. schengen is a symbol of europe and i expect the commission to strictly monitor schengen violations and the cyprus presidency to understand the sensitivity of this schengen debate. we are at a very dangerous juncture: the real trust of our citizens is at stake.
i want to thank you for your hard work, which has more real-life results than the written political commitments. we are the european leader in environmentally friendly technologies. we are the leader in clean technology, the leader in renewable energy. we are leading europe by example, by the example we set, by the awareness of 500 million europeans about sustainability, about health, about a healthy environment, about a healthy lifestyle. our challenge is how to encourage further research and how to take this philosophy out into the world. much of what we take for granted is still far away for others. so it is imperative that we adapt our communication to this. it's hard to talk about a low-carbon society in india when at the same time half a billion people don't have access to electricity. but we can talk about the opportunity of solar power and renewable energy. it's hard to say they can't use coal anymore, but we can talk about clean technologies that we have mastered, and we'll achieve the same goals. and our attention today must be directed above all to the management of the economic crisis. we can't cut off that branch that's got millions of jobs. the process of restructuring into green jobs will obviously take longer than we all want it to. but we're on the right track, and the time is right. the european parliament and commissioner potočnik have invested a lot of energy and commitment to make global political commitments more tangible. the rio conference was part of that. the cheapest and most effective remedy for political commitment is global public awareness. an informed public will help to speed up political commitments.
in writing. - i voted for financial assistance because i believe it is strategically important in this sector.
the author. − this resolution is based on the fundamental value of the european union, as expressed in article 1 of the charter of fundamental rights. it says that human dignity is inviolable. the case of the forced abortion in china of a 22-year-old woman in her seventh month of pregnancy is a fact that demands our attention and our clear attitude. we condemn the practice of forced abortions in china as a gross violation of human rights. we call on china to revise its one-child policy and on the european union to include the issue of forced abortions in its human rights dialogue with china. european taxpayers must be absolutely clear about why their money is being used and it can only be used in accordance with our values and principles.
i would like to thank the rapporteur and all the members who have participated in this process of upgrading standardisation. i have experience of what it was like for a medium-sized company to standardize processes, how difficult it was, so this is the biggest contribution to smes today. and in the field of ict, we have to remember bill gates, who wrote more than a decade ago, and said that with every solution, he first thinks about how to standardize it. and so microsoft built and upgraded all of the solutions. i would also like to draw particular attention to services which need to be given special attention, of course at european level, but perhaps also in the future, cooperation with india, russia and other emerging markets.
on behalf of the s&d group. if some people are still wondering why we are dealing in the european parliament after all these years with the issue of the illegal abductions, detentions and torture of cia prisoners on european soil, let me remind you that human rights violations and abuses have no statute of limitations. it wasn't an easy job. countries hide behind a veil of state secrets from disclosure. tomorrow, when we vote, we must give voice and satisfaction to people whose warnings have been grossly ignored for more than a decade. we will remember the victims of this tragic event. i would also like to remind you of all the victims who have suffered and continue to suffer as a result of the policy which was introduced in response to the events of 11 years ago, and of the fact that no member state has yet fully complied with its obligations to protect, preserve and respect international human rights and to prevent their further violation. we therefore call on the european commission to support and monitor the national procedures for determining the liability of the member states. only in this way can we restore our reputation as a defender and defender of universal human rights standards and only in this way can we seriously demand that the candidate countries and the countries in our neighbourhood respect the high standards of human rights and democratic rule of law.
congratulations to the reporter and to the shadow reporters. energy efficiency and this directive are very welcome. welcome in terms of saving, in terms of economic growth and of course, an environment that is more friendly to our health. because we don't know our health until we've lost it. but i would just like to draw attention to the information technologies that can limit consumption and, of course, regulate and measure. so this is really creating jobs with a lot of value added, not just in construction but also in the sector. but i would like to, and i understand that the way we think about energy efficiency is by looking at the whole forest, not just one tree.
energy efficiency improvements are considered to be the most effective measures to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and import dependency. this can only be achieved by stimulating innovation and investment, both in product and service development. so the key to creating new jobs is efficiency, not saving. the problem, of course, is that it takes investment, and then years of savings. and the problem is, it's not always the investors who save. in the context of the financial crisis, investors are hard to find in many member states. this directive therefore provides for a high degree of flexibility as regards the measures to be applied to certain countries. however, this directive will nevertheless have a great added value, as it is the first comprehensive eu legislative framework for more efficient energy use. and there is another aspect i want to highlight: that it is now time for comparable economies to start taking comparable action, and that we must therefore be much more decisive in international climate change negotiations.
the remit regulation, which we adopted last year, is also of paramount importance for the completion of the internal market, and at the end of august a delegation from the european parliament visited the acer agency, which was to carry out this extensive task of implementing the regulation. it will require enormous human and financial resources, and that is why i ask the european commission: what is your opinion on the implementation of remit, how important is it for the completion of the internal market? what does the european commission think the market will be like without or with only partial implementation of the remit regulation? how does it intend to ensure adequate human and financial resources? finally, what is the commission's view of the principle that the budget of the european union must be such that it is used to implement all the political commitments already made regularly and without delay?
i would like to refer to my question about the implementation of remit. the internal market must be implemented by 2014, not 2015. and in this internal market we must do everything we can to prevent abuse and to prevent fraud. the credibility of the european union is therefore at stake. acer currently has no guaranteed funds, according to the current draft budget for the next year, for either sufficient human resources or the purchase of sufficient information and communication technology. so again, i would really like to hear the commission's answer here, how do you imagine the internal market will be organised if we do not prevent abuses?
in writing. − finally, there is a strong sense of commitment to the improvement of the energy picture in the european union through mandatory energy saving measures. i am glad that the directive also binds public institutions which are large energy consumers. so my vote is for the strategic goal of saving energy.
in writing. - trust is nice, but control is better. the safety of medicinal products is a public health concern which requires the oversight of pharmacovigilance systems. it must not happen again, as in the case of the drug "mediator" in france, which is estimated to have killed between 500 and 2000 people. i support the commission in its efforts to further amend pharmacovigilance legislation. my vote for the report is also a wish that patients and healthcare professionals be better informed about medicines that require additional monitoring.
i don't think we need to speculate anymore about what's going on in syria. there is a war in syria, it's a civil war, it's a religious war, it's a global struggle for influence, for interests. it is not just the people who are represented in the gallery as heroic, courageous freedom fighters, but it is the countries with their own interests, countries which are totally at odds with democratic principles and which should be taught these principles. i think, mrs. ashton, the path you advocate is the right path. a path to a political solution, which must include the end of the regime in damascus. but a political solution is always much cheaper and much more reasonable than war.
in writing. − i voted for the brook report because it is strategic but also pragmatic and based on the values of the european union, with a focus on peace, human rights and security.
we need a bank run. and the commission's proposal is in my view a step in the right direction, since it centralises supervision at a time when virtually all european banks operate across national borders, and should not be in doubt at all. we need to break the vicious circle whereby in recent years member states already in crisis have had to put even more pressure on their budgets by making additional capital injections to banks. the banks, in turn, have deepened the public financial crises of the countries and have burdened european taxpayers. we will hand over the task of supervising and sanctioning banks to the european central bank. but this process requires more than just more precise technical items around the transmission of information and cooperation with national regulators. it also calls for a clearer, more transparent and more accountable governance of the european banking union. so let me repeat once again what we have made clear in the resolution on the banking union: we need a strong role for the european parliament in the supervision and restructuring of european banks and in the process of establishing and implementing the banking union.
the european council's decision to bring the internal market in electricity and gas to life by 2014 certainly stimulated the preparation and adoption of this legislative document. but then why did the council resist so much? is this a misunderstanding or is this a monopoly violation? it is very interesting to follow the legislative procedures of the union. they tend to start with discussions on the added value that a given common policy would have for all member states. this is followed by commitments in principle to formulate a specific policy. then comes the painstaking work of drafting legislative documents, that is, negotiating how we will translate the commitments in principle into legislation. each new european legislative act is part of a transfer of national competence. and this is something that the member states are often not prepared to accept. and so it was with the document we are considering today. however, for the time being, this is only a matter of establishing a mechanism for exchanging information and not of establishing effective control over the member states' competences. the legislative text is rather weak, but it will nevertheless initiate the monitoring of intergovernmental agreements, leading to a more coordinated external energy policy of the union. this is a start. in the future, however, the mechanism will be improved if the actual situation so requires. it is therefore good and necessary for the further development of the common energy policy that we confirm it.
in writing. the internal market is a priority for the eu. the internal market is a link between europe: it connects businesses, people, politics. but there is a cost to establishing it, and we must take that into account when we adopt budgets. the case is the energy agency, which has too small a budget in 2013 for both financial and human resources to implement the remit regulation. the implementation of this regulation will prevent misuse of information and fraud in the electricity and gas markets. limited funding is putting the implementation off. who will be responsible if there are irregularities in the markets in the meantime? will it be a mistake on the part of european policy, because we did not insist on a higher budget, or a mistake on the part of national policies, because they saved where they should not have saved? i want to emphasize that i am against this kind of budget cut.
i would like to ask a question about cohesion policy. in particular, the system of national development factors determines the level of european funding for less developed regions and is based on calculations of both the level of development of the regions and of the member states. in the negotiating framework for the next multiannual financial framework for the next seven years, it is proposed to reduce these factors, and we, the european parliamentarians, have never had the opportunity to discuss reducing these factors, although in my view this falls within the area of co-decision that we have within the framework of european cohesion policy. i am concerned, in essence, that the combined effects of the proposed changes to these factors will disproportionately affect regions within the european union in different member states. this can be felt particularly by the less developed region of eastern slovenia, which may be affected by these changes and even by the loss of 40% of cohesion funds. in the current crisis, i think it is not necessary to stress that it is simply impossible to allow this to happen in the implementation of solidarity and investment policies in the eu, and i would therefore like to receive a written reply from the commission.
congratulations to dr. paul rübig for doing, together with others, an extremely important job during the crisis. important work to make it easier to answer what we're going to do tomorrow, because that's the key challenge. what are we gonna do? and there's a lot of answers to that in this report. i would support him in the direction of emphasizing the importance of early childhood education for the entrepreneurial spirit. we also need to teach young people about courage from kindergarten onwards, because without courage, there is no entrepreneurship. the european enterprise network should also report to parliament in future on the results, on concrete results on the ground. how many new start-ups have been created as a result of the network?
we are looking at a very important document, probably one of the most politically weighty documents of the next seven years. the adoption of this report on the multiannual financial framework provides an opportunity to send a clear message to the council and the commission. in the face of the crisis, the eu's investment-oriented budget must remain high enough to tackle unemployment and promote investment, growth and cohesion among member states. the european budget must remain the instrument for coordinating and implementing the objectives set by the european union, thus ensuring the implementation of investment and development programmes which member states would otherwise quickly withdraw from their national reform programmes in times of crisis. i would like to focus on the question raised by mr vlásak, namely the change in the so-called factors of national development, which are extremely important in cohesion policy, and the threat that the less developed eastern slovenian region, the slovenian region in eastern slovenia, may lose 40% of cohesion funds as a result of this factor.
in the 2014-2020 financial framework, we must first of all be aware that speed of decision-making is of the utmost importance. the speed of decision-making because we live in a crisis and we ask ourselves what we are going to do and where we are going to invest, and this financial framework gives the answer exactly to that. in addition, we should be more aware of the uniqueness of europe in the relationship between rural and urban development. so, of course, for rural development and cohesion we should remain in the positive trend we have been in the past.
i am very pleased that the council has set out concrete priorities, which are particularly important at this time, and i shall myself highlight those which my colleagues have not mentioned. the priority must remain the european research area, which must be realised more rapidly in line with the ljubljana process. we need to facilitate the mobility of researchers and, above all, to provide them with good working conditions and comparable pay for the same work. compared to the us, we need to do more, especially in creating the right environment for researchers and private investors. our shortfall of up to three percent in r&d investment is mainly on the private side. secondly, the internal market connects us and provides an opportunity for development. but there is a cost to establishing it, and we must take that into account when we adopt budgets. the energy agency is an example: the low budget puts at risk the implementation of the remit regulation, which is supposed to prevent misuse of information and fraud. finally, i support the strong text of the european council on the iranian nuclear programme, but i regret that a delegation from the european parliament is due to visit iran next week. i don't think this is the time.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report on the 2013 european year of citizens. citizenship of the union was introduced by the maastricht treaty in 1993 to strengthen and consolidate european identity and to enable european citizens to participate actively in the european integration process. the overall objective of the european year is to raise awareness of the rights conferred by citizenship of the union, so that citizens can fully benefit from their right to move and reside freely within the territory of the member states. a eurobarometer survey published in september 2011 shows that among the most common problems faced by eu citizens living, studying or working in another member state of the european union are lack of information, knowledge of rights, language barriers and non-recognition of diplomas and qualifications. in the current period of financial, political and social crisis in the european union, these obstacles are exacerbated by the negative consequences of the crisis, including the increase in unemployment and social unrest.
in writing. − i supported the non-legislative resolution calling on the european commission to take all incentive measures, including the imposition of penalties, to encourage member states to abolish borders in the single european sky. most eu member states, including germany and france, will not have their air traffic control areas grouped into nine functional airspace blocks by the deadline of 4 december 2012. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities.
in writing. − the acaa is an agreement aimed at removing technical barriers to trade in industrial products between the european union and israel. in this procedure, the european parliament had to give its consent. i do not agree with the political blockade of the agreement in relation to human rights violations in israel, as there is no jurisdiction in this agreement to deal with such a situation. i therefore support an agreement which will also have positive effects on the economic and trade aspects of the member states of our union.
i congratulate both rapporteurs on an excellent resolution which reflects an awareness of the need to develop a strategic partnership with japan. at the moment, this is the most important trade negotiation the european union has undertaken to date. i share the conviction that the free trade agreement will contribute to boosting economic growth in both partners and to improving the trade balance between the european union and japan. trade liberalisation remains the most appropriate way to stimulate the economy. any short-term turbulence caused by liberalisation should be seen in the light of the long-term positive effects of the agreement. i support the resolution's clarity and decisiveness both in terms of the removal of non-tariff barriers, including in the area of public procurement, and in its proposals on the sequence of urgent actions, monitoring and timetable. these proposals can only strengthen the credibility of the whole project. i hope that this report will also help to create the necessary atmosphere so that the council can give the green light to start negotiations soon. i see the fta as an important step towards a more comprehensive economic and political partnership between the european union and japan.
the report is coming and the commission's proposal is coming at the right time. in a time of crisis, which calls for good and innovative solutions. in everyday life, we feel the banal differences, such as the car equipment and the mandatory electrical test, such as the plug-in with the mandatory converter and, for example, in information technology. the report makes it clear that the internal market is moving in the right direction. thanks to a reporter who was based on real life. when the barriers fall, the walls between us all fall. companies, especially smes, will have greater opportunities to network. they will be linked to innovative ideas and products that will make them more competitive globally. in a world where many people only wish to be able to live up to the standard and the environment that we have in europe. it is time to devote less energy to competition within europe. it is time to put ourselves, together, intensively into economic competition outside europe. with more internal market unity, we will win.
in writing. − consular protection is an integral part of the union's policy on citizens' rights. this is an expression of the solidarity of the european union. the emphasis is on the fact that eu citizens can contact any embassy or consulate of another member state if their own country is not represented outside the union. i strongly supported that motion.
in writing. − the free trade agreement is an important step towards a more comprehensive economic and political partnership between the european union and japan. the free trade agreement will contribute to boosting economic growth in both partners as well as to improving the trade balance between the european union and japan. i support the resolution's clarity and decisiveness both in terms of the removal of non-tariff barriers including in the area of public procurement, and in its proposals on the sequence of urgent actions, monitoring and timetable. this resolution will help to create the necessary atmosphere to give the council the green light to start negotiations soon.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i welcome the eu's efforts to promote policy coherence for development. the report stresses that policy coherence for development is not just a legal obligation, but that the development of accountable, transparent and inclusive policies based on human rights is an opportunity for the eu to establish equal and sustainable partnerships with developing countries that go beyond development cooperation.
at this point, when the whole process of the european semester is already under way, we must be able to reflect sufficiently in depth to transfer experience into good practices and also to put an end to bad practices. there is still a lot to be done in this process and i would like to highlight three points which i think are really important and which will require some time, some work. for the first time, i think there's a lack of a deep approach. we cannot afford to have the same council recommendations transcribed literally for each member state, because we have long since established that one size fits all does not work in european policies. it is essential that the recommendations are more detailed and present a realistic assessment of the situation in the member state concerned. we also need a commitment from the member states to submit national plans for jobs, especially jobs for young people, for review in the context of the european semester. for example, the european guarantee scheme is a good example and a binding mechanism for improving the position of young people on the labour market. secondly, i think that the europe 2020 strategy is lacking in a stronger presence. this has been established many times today, so i want to repeat it. in fact, the inclusion of europe 2020 should ensure that the country-specific recommendations include both the issue of youth unemployment and the major problem of poverty. third, there is a lack of flexibility. it is of the utmost importance that during the semester the commission allows for the possibility of adjusting specific recommendations where these prove inadequate to meet the revised objectives. and last but not least, the semester still lacks democratic legitimacy. the european parliament, the only elected supranational institution, must have a voice at least as close to that of the commission and the council.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on regional development. − financial instruments within the eu are financial support from the union budget in the form of loans, guarantees, equity investments or other risk-related instruments. the transparent and flexible use of financial instruments with the participation of the private sector can certainly accelerate and strengthen the flow of investment across the european union that would otherwise not be possible due to the current banking crisis. i would like to thank rapporteur gardiazábal for including, in fact, most of our amendments to the regi committee in her final report. i would just like to focus on a few points that are important in the use of financial instruments in cohesion policy. they can play an important role in achieving the objectives of cohesion policy by enabling public sector funds to be used more efficiently. the financial instruments in cohesion policy have been known for some time. the accelerated deployment proposed by the european commission can ensure more effective private sector participation in european investments in the next seven-year budget period, thus helping to ensure the financing of strategic regional investments in a concrete way. it is important to ensure legal clarity, transparency and a simple system of application when pushing for the extension of the application of these instruments, which will be available for all structural and cohesion funds and all thematic objectives over the next seven years. we need a very clear legal framework, which will be set in time, that is, definitely before the start of the new programming period. to foster the success of financial instruments, we also need to improve and strengthen knowledge and technical capacity on the use of instruments both at management level and among financial intermediaries, banks and end-users. last but not least, it is important to ensure that in the future, the increasing use of financial instruments in all european policies will provide a clear overview of all risk-related mechanisms implemented with financial support from the european union budget.
i was inspired to discuss this today by the discussion of my colleague šťastný. i think that... i used to admire him as a hockey player and i wouldn't want his proposal, which actually had a lot of political weight, to go away. dictators are sensitive when someone takes their favorite toy. their favorite toy is public display, bragging. i think it would be very appropriate if you would advocate for the cancellation of the hockey championship in belarus. that would have cost lukashenko a great show and people would have understood why he lost it. for those who don't know, we'd ask around. we have a hard time reaching the public in that country. a gesture like that would get us out into the open. i would also like to thank mr füle for his sensitivity in dealing with the delicate political problems in these countries with which we must have contact, but above all with the people and the public in these countries.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i shall be very brief. everybody in this house who is sensitive to this issue agrees that this regulation will be a significant step in preventing would-be terrorists from getting their hands on the ingredients for home-made explosives. it will disrupt their plans to harm our societies. this regulation represents a clear improvement in public security and will also simplify matters for suppliers by establishing a harmonised set of rules across europe. the commission will continue to work in other areas, too, to help reduce the threat from terrorism. i will give you one example to explain what i mean, and that is the work of the radicalisation awareness network, which exchanges best practices between those who work on the ground with people at risk of being drawn into violent extremism. this is just one example. there are many others which show that we should take these matters very seriously and tackle them from different angles.
i think the commission's initiative is commendable and that we have actually begun to talk at the right time about the danger that more and more people with extreme views are being given the opportunity to pursue their aims. but i think, commissioner, that it would be right to extend this thinking to an area that has nothing to do with terrorism but simply has something to do with the general propensity for violence. i'm talking about the possession of conventional weapons and the weapons that individuals possess. clearly, there is a growing crime and domestic crime in the world today, linked to the overly liberal use of weapons and the easy availability of weapons.
slovenia has been hit by very severe flooding. the great good news about the accident is that there were no human casualties. the damage is immense, thousands of homes have been flooded, many completely destroyed. landslides have washed away many sections of the road, so rehabilitation will be long and difficult. we've moved people, but the roads take their time. the worst flooding in the dravia river has shown that climate change is a fact that we have to adapt to. this also applies to the hazards and problems of the hydropower chain. the water wave threatened the dams, so in austria the flow had to be increased by further emptying the reservoirs. unfortunately, this has caused the overflow of the banks and the outflow, a lot of damage in slovenia, also additional threat under the dams. we need better mechanisms to manage hydroelectric plants along the shores. it also provides for genuine cross-border material solidarity in the event of damage and compensation. we cannot do without the european union, which is why we need a european union budget and solidarity mechanisms.
thank you for your persistence and tolerance, reporter. growth and saving go hand in hand and that's why we need a really good platform, which is very visible in this report. we need a common approach, rules and, of course, control. and rules that will reduce the administration. and with the 6,000 banks in europe that operate internationally, but otherwise they all have their own rules, it's like a family where parents have many children and the children spend their money and lend to their friends, and in the end the parents end up on the begging stick. so the pillars that lay the foundations for healthy competition, for us to be able to move from our market to the global market, are certainly visible in this report.
social enterprises have difficulty in finding finance and access to credit, which is one of the basic conditions for their creation and development in general. access to public funds and structural funds is also often hampered by overly rigid or bureaucratic systems. additionally, their position is hampered by a lack of recognition and knowledge of social entrepreneurship, which is full of unfounded stereotypes. we therefore need clear publicity for the possibility of financing social enterprises at all levels and simplification of the implementation of state aid rules for social and local services. reform of eu public procurement rules is also an excellent opportunity to improve compliance with social standards. i myself get almost weekly written questions to my office about the possibility of funding social enterprises and the interest is really huge. that is why i strongly support and stand firmly on the side of a policy that is geared towards social entrepreneurship.
i support the report on economic and monetary union. we have already repeatedly stressed in this house that the adoption of rules on macroeconomic imbalances and the binding control of budgetary discipline in the euro area must be complemented by performance criteria in the field of employment and social protection. i am pleased that mrs thyssen's report clearly calls for the introduction of a social pact for europe which will promote youth employment and ensure common minimum social standards for all europeans, social protection and equal working conditions throughout the european union. the social pact must be the fifth pillar of the new eu architecture. at this point, i would just like to see this report from the european parliament on the table of all the political representatives of the member states in the council and taken seriously by the group of european leaders led by mr van rompuy.
blue-card question. – mr president, i had the same question as my two colleagues. i would like to ask mrs wils if she really believes that we are so naïve that one exhibition organised next to the chamber can change our minds. i would like to ask her what her arguments are before she decides.
much has been said today about the positive and negative aspects of shale gas exploitation. but at a time when our economy is particularly weak, we need to be even more open to innovation and to know how to exploit it as an opportunity. and shale gas is one such innovation. smart exploitation of this unconventional gas source can help us reduce our dependence on imports as well as create new jobs. let me just highlight the aspect of reliable power supply. in 2010, we imported 52.7% of all energy in europe. according to eurostat, we imported 63,5% of our gas in the same year, increasing our import dependency on russia by 5,6%. some member states became even more than 90% dependent on foreign gas imports during that year. and we're increasing the share of renewables, but we know that the most appropriate source of backup power is gas. there's been a lot of talk today about the united states and actually a real energy revolution there. the exploitation of a relatively new energy source can also be used as a research and innovation opportunity. why not become a european leader in the development of shale gas extraction techniques that use less water, no chemicals, recycle more efficiently and are safer or less likely to pollute the environment? the concern for a reliable energy supply and high environmental standards would be the basis for new jobs for highly qualified young people, who in the current situation all too often find opportunities outside the borders of the european union. so instead of saying no, let's take this opportunity to develop and export high environmental standards.
a lot of people would say, "why are we even having this conference?" because we're not getting anywhere. the media reports are skeptical, but i was surprised when i checked what had happened from bali to today. it is very important to me that there is a global agreement that the temperature should not exceed two degrees celsius, and this of course also has emissions limits. the green climate fund was established, the technology transfer instrument was set up, and of course negotiations are still ongoing in many areas. but the most important agreement on how much countries will reduce their greenhouse gas emissions and make a legal commitment to do so has not yet been reached. and it is also true that the commitments they have already made are far from achieving the goal we all want. that is why we must be extremely resolute in our talks with our colleagues in doha. we need to tell them that we need to be more ambitious and that we need to act now. of course, the crisis cannot be used as an excuse. because if we act now, it's going to cost about 1% of gdp, if we don't act, it's going to cost about 5% of gdp, and we really can't leave that burden on our children. i must point out something else. climate change is a global issue. and action must also be global. i think that the reactions to the unilateral increase in ambition in our resolution are unnecessary.
this is a very important report, more important than anyone might think, because it strategically shapes our view of enlargement as one of the main instruments for stability and economic growth. but it is not enough that this process is alive, it must also be successful, it must also be complete. most of these countries participating in this process are young democracies. many are newly independent nations. institutions are weak, they have difficulty in transitioning and there is a lot of frustration on their part, linked, particularly in the balkans, to the former recent wars. it is therefore important that the commission has a clear, strong mandate to open the most challenging chapters as soon as possible, to push countries to move faster. it's not true that everything depends on them, much depends on us and (the president interrupted the speaker)
question asked by raising the blue card. mr. tannock, i always admire your eloquence and your knowledge of the things you talk about, but you're now listing events as if they were some kind of shooting drill in the middle east. i would expect, and i am asking you, do you not think that the events that are happening now should remind us above all of the need to find a political, just political solution for the middle east and to begin serious negotiations on the basis of two states living side by side in peace?
the fact that as many as 60% of the errors found in the implementation of regional policy could and should be observed by the member states is extremely worrying. it is essential that in future more attention be paid to the preparation of projects with clear objectives that will really bring european added value and thus ensure efficient consumption. i also join those who have said today that the situation in all the member states needs to be monitored. it is crucial that cohesion policy, as one of the most important tools for stimulating economic growth and new investment, remains a strong and financially backed european policy for the next seven years. it is therefore all the more important to stress at this point that better spending will not be achieved by reducing resources, but only by more effective controls and concrete commitments by member states to better manage resources.
as one of the central asian states, kyrgyzstan experienced political upheaval during the post-soviet transition, with particularly tragic outcomes in the revolutionary year of 2010. these shocks have further damaged its economy, which lacks very rich natural resources. in 2010, citizens voted in a plebiscite to support the constitutional changes that have helped the country on its way to parliamentary democracy, which is a challenge for the country and its environment. as a former special envoy of the osce chairperson in the equally revolutionary year of 2005, i had the opportunity to learn about the democratic ambitions of this country, as well as the complexity of its political and economic landscape. kyrgyzstan urgently needs the help of those who want to help resolve the difficult macroeconomic situation, which is essential for the economic recovery and political stability of the young democracy. i am pleased that the foreign affairs committee has unanimously supported financial assistance to kyrgyzstan and i hope that we will vote in favour of it in the same way in the plenary.
the streets and squares of european cities are filled with angry protesters these days, spurred on by the poor socioeconomic conditions, unemployment, the hopelessness of young people and often the despair of the elderly. for the first time since slovenia became an independent state in 1991, it too has been the scene of mass protests, including violent ones. the protests are not limited to the new members of the european union, but the link between the economic crisis and corruption and the dysfunction of the rule of law is more pronounced there. more pronounced are the tendencies towards authoritarian and even totalitarian systems. today, and not ever, we must ask ourselves if our system of democratic control and values is still working. people on the streets are telling us no.
my country, slovenia, has been hit by major earthquakes recently. we had a big flood. the country was also shocked by the outgoing president's apparent reluctance to reform. she's having a banking crisis that doesn't service businesses. the government and parliament are making great efforts to enact the necessary reforms that affect everyone. and these are the ideal conditions for populism, and these are the conditions for a loss of trust. people are taking to the streets to call for a rebellion. protests and the restless expression of people's concerns about the future are understandable, they are democratic. violence and injuries to police officers, and injuries to peaceful protesters are of concern. i suggest that we in the european parliament also pay more attention to controlling populism, nationalism and worryingly unrealistic promises, in order to help manage the political crisis with even greater commitment.
i'm gonna be very healthy in the digital marketplace. because the digital single market will make it easier to move patients across borders, it will make it easier to provide home care, telemedicine and of course also remote work, because remote work should not be understood only within individual countries, but can be understood as between the member states of the european union. and it's extremely important, especially for mothers, to be able to have this part-time job and work at the beginning, when the kids are young, from home. so these are the specificities that the digital single market can support, but at the same time, of course, these are new jobs; new jobs also for that, for servicing the elderly at home.
thank you, madam president, and thank you, madam rapporteur, for the excellent cooperation i have had with you. we have reached many compromises, but some differences of opinion remain. in particular, the need to take account of emergencies and situations far away in the countryside, far away from centres, even when it comes to animal treatment. but the key goal of all of this is to reduce the use of antibiotics and to make people aware of the need to make patients aware. last week, my mother asked me why the doctor didn't give her antibiotics for the baby, because we're used to eating antibiotics like bread. it's just that when we get sick, the first thing we think about is taking an antibiotic, and actually, we need to get out of this as a society first.
small and medium-sized enterprises cannot internationalise without capital. it is even difficult to work in the internal market, because banks have often played by the principle of keeping the umbrella open when the sun is shining and closing it when it is raining. it means that when a medium-sized company got into trouble, the bank pulled out and stopped lending. that is why this report is welcome. i am pleased that 23 member states have already endorsed it, and given that smes are one of the great hopes for overcoming the economic crisis, this report will certainly help to do so.
i too would like to congratulate mr lehne, mr baldassarre and mr rapkay and, of course, the commissioner on a job well done. a competitive european economy needs a single patent. the european economy is losing the competitive edge it has always had in a geostrategic sense, mainly because of three things: the innovation, the inventiveness and the creativity of the european economy. it is this reform that will again influence the growth of these characteristics. it will, above all, enable smes to recover, in particular in terms of innovation, which will be cheaper as a result, and also because of the greater security of the legal environment. i also support your other work, commissioner. i too feel bad that the slovenian language will also be deprived because of the violation of linguistic equality. but still, if i had to choose between this worse option and all the good things that a patent brings, i would definitely choose to support the patent. and that's what i'm going to do.
i'm sure most of us use online services practically every day. and yet the potential of the european digital market is still largely untapped, which is hurting our entrepreneurs the most. i am committed to removing as quickly and as effectively as possible the bottlenecks that are holding back progress in the areas of digital business, copyright, innovation and creativity. however, we must not forget the rights of consumers, which must be clearly defined and the same for the whole of the european union, for all the member states. last but not least, the current legislation needs to be simplified and improved in order to strengthen the functioning of the single market and to stimulate innovation, which is crucial at a time when europe is really emerging from the crisis.
i would like to explain my positive vote on this report because i have been actively involved in the committee on economic and monetary affairs in recent months in a very similar report. i believe that we must work towards a more consistent assessment of the impact of the crisis on smes, and in particular on micro-enterprises, which are of crucial importance for many countries. it is necessary to reduce the regulatory costs for smes and to continue to support micro-credit at european level, which is already very well used and well known in some member states, especially for the smallest enterprises, which thus facilitate their business. i am glad that the report also touches on one very important point that may never be touched upon in european legislation, and that is the so-called business angels. i also see a real prospect for small and medium-sized enterprises. business angels are not just people, successful business people, who help small businesses and start-ups solve their problems financially, but also help them with innovative and promising ideas because of their experience.
i agree with the rapporteur on the lack of awareness and health problems affecting older women. consider osteoporosis, or the silent epidemic, which affects at least one in three women over 50. fractures due to osteoporosis are very common in the eu. because they happen every 30 seconds. the latest figures from 2010 show that osteoporosis fractures cost as much as €39 billion. all too many europeans, and let there be no mistake, europeans too, are still suffering needlessly because of a failure to diagnose in time. so we must do all we can to prevent, treat, and cure this painful and life-limiting disease. the first step is to raise awareness and provide clearer information on preventive screening for osteoporosis and bone density measurement, which should be more accessible. older people are much more active today than they were decades ago, and it is right that we in the european parliament should also draw attention to the possible stereotypes and prejudices that affect older people, not just women, but people.
in writing. − i supported the european parliament's report on enhanced cooperation in the area of unitary patent protection and the two other reports in this package: the report on the translation arrangements and the report on the patent litigation court system. i believe that the european parliament's rapporteurs, and commissioner barnier in particular, have prepared well for the reform of the unitary patent, without which europe will not increase its competitiveness on a global scale. it is in fact the protection of the innovation, inventiveness and creativity that have put europe ahead of the rest of the world over the last few centuries. the reform will, above all, improve the situation of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will subsequently have lower costs and greater legal certainty and a more equal position compared to large enterprises in this area. the concept of unitary european patent protection is moving towards greater efficiency. although the circulation will be limited to english, german and french, which was a major irritation for some italian and spanish members in particular in the debate before the vote, this will not have a significant impact on the equality of languages in the eu.
in writing. − in three separate votes, i supported the so-called european patent package, which contains provisions on the unitary patent, the language arrangements and the establishment of a unitary patent court. i supported the patent package because inventors in the european union will soon be able to obtain a single european patent. after more than 30 years of negotiations, the new regime will reduce the cost of acquiring patent rights in the ec by up to 80% and make patent law more competitive compared to japanese and american law. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. compared with the current system, the new patent will be cheaper and more effective in protecting inventions by individuals and businesses. the new system will automatically protect the unitary patent in all 25 ec member states that join the system, reducing costs for european companies and contributing to their competitiveness.
in writing. - i voted for the non-legislative resolution on the prevention of age-related diseases in women. the ec population is ageing, due to low fertility and increasing life expectancy. this issue is increasingly being taken into account in european policies, as evidenced by the fact that 2012 was declared the european year of active ageing and solidarity between generations. the aim is to promote active ageing for all by providing access to high-quality healthcare and by taking preventive measures to enable older people to remain independent for as long as possible. the main risk factors to be considered, also in relation to each other, are high blood pressure, high blood sugar, lack of physical activity, smoking, overweight and obesity, high cholesterol and hormonal changes due to menopause in women. the report highlights, among other things, activities that older people can participate in after retirement and the contribution they can offer in various forms, including volunteering, supporting family members, helping sick and vulnerable people in the neighbourhood (informal carers) and participating in political, cultural, environmental and religious activities. more efforts should be made at local level to make life 'older-friendly'.
in writing. - i voted for the non-legislative resolution on the growing threat of antimicrobial resistance. the widespread use of antimicrobials, particularly in livestock farming, is promoting resistance to them and thus reducing their effectiveness in humans. increasing resistance could even lead to a return to the pre-antibiotic era, says the world health organization. meps have advocated more prudent use of medicines with a greater emphasis on prevention.
first of all, i'd like to congratulate the reporter. my country, slovenia, is a transit country, so i am aware of this problem from my own experience. every day, huge trucks transport animals in rather poor conditions. i therefore agree that the proposed amendment to the regulation from 2005 needs to be improved, and i particularly support the limitation of transport to eight hours. the inspection controls should also be more effective, and the system of fines should also provide more incentives for better animal treatment. this is important first for the sake of the animals that are often unnecessarily tortured, and then for the sake of us consumers. the fact is that animal welfare also affects the quality of animal products. over one billion animals travel the roads of europe each year. that's too much. within a few years, the number of animals transported nearly doubled. i know, the single market is at the forefront, of course the profits are huge. it would be right, however, if instead of perfect long-distance trade, we all together increased or paid more attention to the diversity of european agriculture and local production and consumption.
we need common rules and, of course, we need monetary and economic union. but today, above all, we must avoid populism and false promises. for it is a time when only by more appropriate communication can we pull the cart together. the populism we hear in the european parliament also has an impact, an enormous impact on people. and today, with 25 million unemployed, the people who are striking are the people who have jobs, but they're striking because they're getting less christmas money. so these are the impacts that we're making on politicians, and maybe with words that are not really appropriate in a time of complex crisis.
in writing. − i supported the non-legislative resolution on the protection of animals during transport, as more and more animals are being transported in the european union (eu) in substandard conditions. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the public authorities.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, even though it does not go far enough in protecting animals during transport. the report makes some progress in this area, but i hope that in the future we will protect animals even more. slovenia is a transit country and i am aware of the problem from my own experience. every day, huge trucks carry animals in poor conditions. i agree that it needs to be improved by the proposed amendment of the 2005 regulation. i especially support the eight-hour limit! inspection controls should be more effective and the system of fines should be more stimulating to better animal welfare! this is important first for the sake of the animals, who are often unnecessarily tortured, and then for the sake of our health as consumers. animal welfare also affects the quality of animal products. over a billion animals travel the roads of europe every year. that's too much! within a few years, the number of animals transported nearly doubled. i know, the single market is at the forefront. but also huge profits. it would be right for all of us to pay more attention to the diversity of european agriculture and to local production and consumption, rather than to the perfect long-distance trade.
mr president, i should like to welcome mr lambrinidis again in this house. imamo dve odlični analitični poročili kolegov donskisa in tavaresa. zdi se mi pa opravičeno omeniti nekaj problemov, ki jih v poročilih ni, so pa konkretna, ker se pravzaprav kršitve individualnih človekovih pravic prekrivajo z ogrožanjem kolektivnih pravic in so grožnja stabilnosti in miru. opozarjam na kršenje pravic palestincev, na pravico izraelcev, da živijo v svoji državi v miru in priznanju, na pravice pregnanih prebivalcev zahodne sahare, na pravico prebivalcev nagornega karabaha do življenja v domovini. evropska unija bi morala pri teh in podobnih problemih bolj dosledno uveljavljati načela mednarodnega in humanitarnega prava, boljše možnosti nimamo.
i have to say, i don't think this is the time or the place for a personal statement of any kind. and i would like to make that statement in this debate. i mean, i've been to israel a few times recently, and i've always cultivated my basic premise that i want to be friends with both sides. that i want to be someone who might be able to convey some kind of goodwill to both sides. it seems to me that the fundamental problem of the israeli-palestinian relationship is this... lack of dialogue, lack of interaction of people of good will in politics. it works, this relationship works at the level of civil society. they're wonderful people who understand each other, who can one day create that vision that amos oz described in his book, that an israeli, a jew and a palestinian can sit down together and have coffee. that's the easy perspective. i think the fundamental flaw in israeli politics is that it does not want to give priority, it does not want to give in to those who want to look to the future, who want to see their future, who do not care about tomorrow, but want to live in peace also the day after tomorrow, and such a vision is not present in israeli politics.
like the shadow rapporteur of our group, mrs griesbeck, i would like to stress that we are interested in the effective work of the fundamental rights agency, but that we have a serious problem in supporting a project which already excludes the participation of the police and the judiciary from the mandate of this agency. with the council subject to restrictive demands from some member states, we are working from an agency that is supposed to advise on how to ensure the maximum coherent and decisive protection of the principles and values on which the european union is founded, a toothless tiger. i therefore expect the council and the commission to prepare a revised proposal for a multiannual framework which will not only ensure the continuity of the agency's work but also give it a status which guarantees its independence and... independence from the policies of the member states. let me thank the rapporteur, ladies and gentlemen, and i would like to point out that the agency has proved in its first period of operation that we need such an institution, because it provides protection for the most vulnerable sections of the european population. i will also take this opportunity to recall the conference in the european parliament on the european day of persons with disabilities on 3 december, when we were asked to coordinate legislation at european union level in a more precise and binding manner to enable these people to be fully integrated into private and professional life. finally, i would like to join the rapporteur in her critical opinion of attempts to exclude concerns about national minorities from the agency's mandate.
in writing. − i supported the report that the european union agency for fundamental rights will be able to function normally after december 2012. however, i do not think that the report goes far enough in the direction of extending the agency's remit. this week, the european parliament was given the task of assessing the state of human rights and freedoms. it seems that we are sometimes more sensitive to human rights abuses elsewhere in the world than at home in the eu. more than the content, we were faced with systemic dilemmas: whether to relegate human rights and freedoms to the level of subsidiarity or to where they naturally belong - the european protection framework. i therefore want an agreement between the european institutions which will enable the agency to have a status that will not be a 'toothless tiger'. we need to expand its jurisdiction, not narrow it. above all, i wish the council to be more cooperative in finding common solutions. it would be wrong for the crisis of cooperation between the european institutions to manifest itself precisely in the field of human rights protection. we should be aware that the area of individual freedom is expanding and that it needs ever-increasing protection. what we must be careful to do is to ensure that the new rights and freedoms do not neglect the old, fundamental ones. because the protection of human rights and freedoms is not solved once and for all.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report by mr donskis, which welcomes, among other things, the eu's efforts to support and revive human rights work within the un system. it also stresses the need to ensure more systematic punishment for crimes against humanity, war crimes and genocide and underlines the commitment to the principle of 'responsibility to protect'. in this context, i would point out that the 'initiative to upgrade the convention on the prevention and punishment of the crime of genocide' was presented by the prime minister of the republic of slovenia, mr janez janša, at the 67th session of the united nations general assembly in new york in september 2012. prime minister janša is chairing an initiative coming from the international civil society (institute for cultural diplomacy, berlin) focused on rapidly establishing legal mechanisms to stop mass atrocities in conflict zones around the world. the initiative aims to incorporate the principle of 'responsibility to protect' into the existing genocide convention. it already has thousands of supporters in international ngos and individuals, and support is growing. i hope that this initiative will also be recognised at eu level and included in the 2012 annual report on human rights and democracy in the world, as it, along with other similar initiatives, provides the basis for the development of a new strategy to prevent genocide.
