mr president, according to the rules of procedure the candidate must have submitted an updated declaration of financial interests. have all the candidates done so? i did not hear that declared at the beginning.
mr president, i would like to offer the prime minister my congratulations. as a swede, it is easy to be committed to – and also to be proud of – the danish agenda, although it has a slight social democrat touch, but i think it is important to see the big challenge that the danish presidency is facing. at a time when we risk a division in europe in the process of deciding how to achieve financial stability, it is very important that the presidency be able do whatever is needed in order to take care of the entire european union and to bind member states together. the process of the internal market, and of launching a new wave of reform for the internal market, is one of the most important ways of binding europe together, and also of regaining economic strength and dynamism. i hope this will be a core item on the danish presidency agenda.
in writing. the european council has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. we voted in favour because the resolution clearly states that the agreement now being negotiated between the member states must be subject to the applicable eu law. it also states that all member states, whether they have adopted the euro or not, will have the right to participate in the meetings of the heads of state or government of the contracting parties, which is an important issue for us. however, we are opposed to the demands for a financial transaction tax and the introduction of eurobonds.
in writing. − the agreement on a fiscal union creates parallel structures, which worries us, among other things, because of the problems this may create, such as shortcomings in democratic control, legal uncertainty and a multiplication of supranational structures. quick decisions over the heads of the people, without anchoring and discussion in parliament or with the people, do not solve the crisis but increase the distance between the people and their politicians. but while we agree with some of the criticisms of the international agreement that the resolution raises, we cannot support the resolution as a whole because we cannot support the solutions proposed, such as deeper economic convergence, stability bonds and a fiscal union. the crisis is bigger than the euro, it is a crisis of the whole economic system on which the eu is based, and the proposals do not solve the basic problems of this system but can at best only postpone the problems for the future. growth-enhancing measures based on borrowed money lead to a constant spiral of increased lending, increased interest payments and thus increasing demands on growth to pay interest and create jobs. this inexorably leads to repeated crises and collapses, with severe social consequences in the event of collapses and increased resource consumption as the economy grows. we therefore abstain.
in writing. − the agreement on a fiscal union creates parallel structures, which worries us, among other things, because of the problems this may create, such as shortcomings in democratic control, legal uncertainty and a multiplication of supranational structures. quick decisions over the heads of people without any anchoring and discussion in parliament or with the people do not solve the crisis but increase the distance between the people and their politicians. but while we agree with some of the criticisms of the international agreement that the resolution raises, we cannot support the resolution as a whole because we cannot support the solutions proposed, such as deeper economic convergence, stability bonds and a fiscal union. the crisis is bigger than the euro, it is a crisis of the whole economic system on which the eu is based, and the proposals do not solve the basic problems of this system but can at best only postpone the problems for the future. growth-enhancing measures based on borrowed money lead to a constant spiral of increased lending, increased interest payments and thus increasing demands on growth to pay interest and create jobs. this inexorably leads to repeated crises and collapses, with severe social consequences in the event of collapses and increased resource consumption as the economy grows. we therefore abstain.
in writing. - the resolution on the conclusions of the december european council. i did so because the resolution clearly states that the agreement now being negotiated between the member states must be subject to the applicable eu law. it also provides that all member states, whether or not they have adopted the euro, shall have the right to participate in the meetings of heads of state or government which the contracting parties will hold. however, i voted against the demands for a financial transaction tax and the introduction of eurobonds.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it is good that the commission is now acting, but a strict legal analysis of individual laws is far from sufficient. the problem is not that eu legislation is being breached, the problem is political. it is a matter of the conservative hungarian government's refusal to respect the basic democratic rules of the game. the new laws threaten the independence of a number of democratic institutions, far more than those identified by the european commission. social and human rights and the independence of the media are also under threat. the debate today is not about a left-wing conspiracy against hungary, as orban is trying to do. it is about the basic democratic values which we must apply together throughout europe, including in hungary. the hungarian people deserve better than the power-hungry behavior of the orban government. however, the strongest pressure for change should come from the governments of the other member states. unfortunately, these now consist almost exclusively of conservative governments of the same political family. the european right's previous failure to criticize orban has led to the situation we are in now. if the right-wing hungarian government refuses to listen, i think we should impose sanctions.
mr president, and connie hedegaard, i would like to join in the congratulations that have been expressed here. you did a very good job in durban, but it's very sad that it's still so inadequate compared to what the world needs. i'm just becoming more and more convinced that it's by showing yourself that it's possible to reschedule, that it's profitable to reschedule, and that it leads to more jobs to reschedule than the rest of us can get, and i think you share that belief. unfortunately, many people believe that if we change our minds, it will lead to unemployment and a major economic crisis. but it is the opposite, and that is what we must show from the european side. then we can bring the others. you yourself mentioned improved and expanded cooperation with aosis, and i also believe that this cooperation that you started with ldc, the poorest countries in the world, is very, very important to prevent china from being able to hide behind them all the time on the international stage. continue to cooperate with the poorest countries, in order to force china to take more ambitious measures.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am happy and proud when the european parliament succeeds in pushing for a greener end result than what the commission proposed and what the member states wanted. that is the case in this report and it is also the case in the legislation which we shall be discussing later. i am very pleased that we are introducing stricter recycling requirements, because i really believe that this is necessary to push countries to introduce efficient recycling systems. the citizens want to recycle more, but it's too complicated today. i think it is good that we tighten up the regulations and make it difficult to export electronic waste, because as we have heard here, this is a very bad way to affect the development of africa and other poor countries that are forced to deal with our hazardous waste today. i think it would be even better if we could have separate targets for small electronics which are quite easy to collect. however, it risks not being done unless we have separate objectives. i hope that the commission will present a good proposal on this very shortly.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank my colleagues in parliament for their contribution to the fact that we have succeeded in sharpening the commission's proposal on several points. i think it is very important that we have got through the widened criteria for which substances should be subject to the cut-off criteria. the more clear labelling that is now being introduced is also very important, and hopefully will deter consumers and thus reduce the use of several questionable biocides. what good is triclosan in baby underpants, for example? what kind of conscious consumer would buy that for their children? but today they seem to be a better choice because they are labeled "antibacterial", and there are apparently parents who believe that it is better to buy them even though there are risks involved, even for their own children. i am concerned that this type of substance, which may not fall under the cut-off criteria, is being used more and more and therefore i look forward to the commission presenting a new proposal for a directive on the sustainable use of biocides, which will tighten up the rules also for the substances which are not as dangerous as the very worst.
for the alde group. i am not sure that this is the case. i want to commend josé bové for his work. now, allow me to be very simple, that is to say, my message may not be to you, colleagues, but to those who are buying their food today. the big problem for the farmers of the eu, and perhaps their only economic problem, is that they are paid outrageously poorly for their work. the chain of operations is extremely large and, i would say, extremely profitable. the food industry is quite profitable, and in the retail chain it is actually quite easy today to become a successful small business owner. in the middle of this gigantic chain is the individual farmer, and although we think of him as a big farmer, he or she is an almost invisible link in the great food chain, even though it is the farmer who is the really big transformer of inputs into raw materials for the next link in the chain. i would ask you to imagine for a moment that if farmers were paid well enough for what they sell on the market, then the eu's income subsidies could actually be turned into investment capital for rural development, for the environment, for the climate, for animal welfare and for infrastructure. imagine the resources that would be available to us when farmers are paid fairly for their work!
mr president, i share the commitment to a more balanced and fairer relationship in the food supply chain. i am grateful that commissioner tajani has laid down so well the policy adopted by this house with the retail market report, and that it is being implemented. progress is being made. stakeholders who did not talk to each other before have agreed on the principle of good conduct. as we speak they are sitting down and talking about implementing measures. that is not enough. we want more and we are putting pressure on them. however, just as the commission is telling us that the process framed in the high level forum for a better functioning food supply chain would not work, they are ready to present legislation. what is the point of this house voting today to ask to propose robust legislation? we are just running the risk of derailing our own process and undermining our own credibility. we are running the risk that the stakeholders whom we are asking to trust each other will say that, since the parliament does not trust them, how can they be credible? parliament has decided that the retail round table is the forum where progress will be assessed, based on data and facts. this will happen at the end of this year. let us not undermine trust.
mr president, i would like to thank you. today we throw away a quarter of the contents of the food bag we take home to sweden. it is unacceptable for the environment, morality and economy. everyone can do something about it in their kitchen, in their home, and when they go grocery shopping. our role is to elevate the debate, raise awareness and spread the right information. the commission must clarify the date marking. the best-before date is about quality, not safety. more labelling would confuse consumers instead. lower temperatures in the cold chain would also increase durability. i have also been a driving force in getting the industry to take more responsibility. they meet millions of people every day. we must return to the farming culture of using our senses and common sense, of harvesting food and recycling waste. instead, it's a plastic culture that we live in today. i hope that together we can change that. it's a challenge.
mr president, with regard to this joint resolution on imbalances in the food supply chain, i would like to invite our colleagues from the agri committee to work better in the future with others in this house, in particular with the members of the internal market and consumer protection committee, because we share the same concerns. rather than working in bureaucratic ways, we would like to join forces: it would help us to be more credible in the eyes of the outside world and to have more impact. thank you for your understanding and cooperation.
in writing. - we abstained because we do not think that this report is the right place to express our views on the future of agricultural policy in certain areas. in addition, the next research framework programme is currently being discussed in the committee on industry, and this report does not want to prejudge that either.
in writing. − i share the concern that unfair commercial practices and dominant positions need to be dealt with, but i am not in favour of imposing robust legislation. the line adopted last year by parliament, in its report ‘on a more efficient and fairer retail market’, in favour of self-regulation is producing initial results. we have gone from denial and confrontation to constructive dialogue. stakeholders have agreed on principles of good practice in b2b relations and are now negotiating on implementing measures. at the same time, the commission is working on a retail action plan and on a communication mapping and assessing existing rules on unfair practices, and has clearly indicated that it will continue to pursue the strategy of consensus. more needs to be done, but it is important to give the ongoing process a chance. asking for robust legislation at this stage would risk derailing this and undermining the climate of trust. we will continue to put pressure on all the parties concerned and will evaluate the results at the yearly retail roundtable, based on facts and data. if self-regulation and the dialogue framed in the high level forum for the supply chain should prove insufficient, all options – including legislation – remain open.
in writing. we social democrats have decided to abstain in the final vote. we do not believe that a european food ombudsman should be set up and we are skeptical of the european instrument for monitoring food prices.
in writing. - i have been a driving force behind this report and i support it. in sweden, we throw away every fourth food box we bring home. it is environmentally, economically and morally unacceptable. with today's more energy-efficient refrigerators, we could lower the temperature in the refrigeration chain to increase sustainability. today we do not distinguish between the 'best before' date, which is for quality, and the 'best before' date, which is for safety. i have therefore asked the commission to clarify these differences. more labelling risks further confusing consumers. i do not agree with those who want to rule at the top, we must start acting now and not wait for the commission to work out the details. it is important that we start early in school. we have to teach our children to take care of their food. it is important to involve the food industry in informing how to plan purchases, store food and reuse leftovers to minimise waste. we must create a sustainable, conscious and moderate consumption without compromising food safety. there's no way to legislate away the problem. but we can build opinion, create debate and raise awareness. our common challenge is to change our attitude and lifestyle. each of us can make a difference, and together we can drive change.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you, mrs. ashton, for being here. two swedish journalists have been imprisoned in ethiopia for several months. they're accused of committing terrorist crimes. they're accused of it, even though they were just doing journalistic work and doing their job. the african union recently held a summit in addis ababa. i want to know if there were any discussions about the situation of swedish journalists at that meeting. i would like to know whether the commission was represented at the meeting. i would like to know, in particular, what action the eu can take to ensure that these two journalists, johan persson and martin schibbye, are allowed to return home. when do they get to come home? it's urgent! i have to go.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mrs ashton! i must say that i think the sanctions imposed by the eu on iran are an expression of responsibility and a moral imperative. i think it is important that we stand united behind these sanctions. that's how we get others to follow, the way australia has done, for example. i am surprised that the opposition to these sanctions has been so strong, for example here in the european parliament. i expected unanimous support. the weapons of iran are not an expression of failure, but on the contrary an expression of the consequences of sanctions. i don't understand those who are against these sanctions. who in the iranian opposition are they actually talking to? i've met and talked to the opposition, and they welcome our toughness on iran. no one wants to punish the iranian people, but the regime's actions have consequences. there must be consequences for behaving unreasonably and against the united opinion of the international community. it costs, and it will cost, as we show with our sanctions. so this is welcome.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let me express my admiration for the patience of cathrine ashton and her balanced and wise answers. we have spoken earlier this evening about iran and the nuclear threat from iran. it is obvious that russia could play a very different role from what russia is doing towards iran days like these and days to come. the same is true of syria. it is not reasonable for russia to be allowed to 'play under the radar' as it is done with syria. the russian foreign minister recently made a statement, saying: the russian policy is not about asking someone to step down. regime change is not our profession. and he goes on to say: we said that the decision should be made by the syrians, by the syrians themselves. he is also aware, of course, that 5,000 syrians have been killed and many, many thousands more have been displaced or have been subjected to inhuman and degrading treatment. it is obvious that we will talk about how corrupt - at least partially - the duma election was. we should have high expectations, of course, for the presidential elections, but it is a pity that one of the countries of the security council should have veto power and then be able to behave as russia does in foreign policy.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? commissioner, what is it? it was with great humility that i took up the task of drawing up this report, the first annual tax report. i would like to thank the shadow rapporteurs from all the political groups for a constructive discussion of this difficult but important subject. i have tried to incorporate comments from all the political groups and i think we have been able to reach a great deal of agreement. today i hope that this report will receive broad support in this house. taxation and tax policy are subjects that affect people. tax policy creates emotions both positive and negative. there are conflicts of objectives in tax policy, and a balance must always be found between them. we know it's not the easiest thing. for decades, tax policy has been regarded as an exclusively national matter, in which the eu plays no role. however, that time has passed. taxation issues must also be discussed at eu level as a consequence of globalisation. the report aims to examine areas where further tax coordination in some areas perhaps even tax harmonisation may be necessary, and where the eu can play an important role. a comprehensive and sustainable fiscal consolidation is necessary, as the ongoing debt crisis is also a fiscal crisis. the lack of coordination of tax policies is contributing to the deepening of the crisis. the necessary but painful debt reduction requires spending cuts, increased public savings and also tax increases. this report focuses on areas where the eu can do more to improve the functioning of the internal market and to create a more competitive europe. unfortunately, businesses and citizens in the eu still face tax obstacles. we must remove these obstacles if we are to create economic growth and more jobs. to do that, we need, among other things, to reduce the tax on labour and raise it on consumption. i also hope that the report will put pressure on the member states to adopt the tax proposals put forward by the commission, including the introduction of a common corporate tax base, the free ccctb. we need to solve the tax problems that people face in their everyday lives, for example if they live in one country and work in another and suffer from double taxation. tax treaties between member states are not sufficient in themselves to eliminate double taxation. this is due to the lack of consistent interpretation of the agreements between the countries. several cases of double taxation are now before the committee on petitions. an example is an italian truck driver working in germany who was taxed in both italy and germany. he was required to pay a total of 60% of his salary in tax, even though he would have been taxed only in germany and would have paid 25% in tax. this is despite the fact that there is a tax treaty between germany and italy and despite the fact that the tax authorities have established that this is wrong. as far as i know, the case is still unsolved. in this area, a common eu policy and common legislation are needed to make a difference. i therefore welcome the commission's recent adoption of a communication on double taxation, which also presents concrete measures. tax evasion, fraud and lack of transparency cost the eu and its member states many billions of euros in lost tax revenue every year. i am particularly concerned about the use of loopholes in the european regulatory framework, whereby international companies operating in the eu try to avoid paying taxes within the union. the ambition must be that every tax evasion which is deliberately withheld from the state in the future through clever tax structures must be paid back to the tax authorities. i would also like to say in conclusion that paragraph 11, on fiscal federalism, has revealed a certain amount of confusion. let me read the original proposal in english, which was submitted by my colleagues from the basque country and catalonia, among others: believes that fiscal federalism is the best tool in order to achieve self-responsibility in tax management at regional level and so entails higher economic efficiency. that refers to paragraph 11.
in writing. - at the european parliament's session in brussels on 2 february, we moderates and christian democrats voted in favour of the resolution on the statements made by the european council on 30 january. we support the resolution, with the exception of the proposals on the joint issuance of debt and the introduction of a financial transaction tax. what we need now is budgetary discipline and structural reforms to boost growth, both in the member states and in the eu as a whole.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. first, the wording of that paragraph gives an incorrect picture of the commitments actually entered into under the covenant. the pact (article 16) does not say that it is to be incorporated into the eu treaties, but rather that its substance is to be incorporated into the eu legal framework. secondly, we cannot support the general call in paragraph 9 for a revision of the lisbon treaty to address weaknesses. such a review is neither desirable nor necessary. we also question the realism of the rapid process for the debt relief fund advocated in paragraph 5.
in writing. − at the brussels european parliament session on 2 february, we moderates and christian democrats voted in favour of the resolution on the conclusions of the european council of 30 january 2012. we support the resolution, with the exception of the proposals on the joint issuance of debt and the introduction of a financial transaction tax. what we need now is budgetary discipline and structural reforms to boost growth, both in the member states and in the eu as a whole.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of a public authority. we do not think it is a good idea for europe to introduce this tax itself without the united states and other financial centres doing the same. we believe that there is a great risk that the stabilizing effects of the financial market, which are hoped to be brought about by a financial transaction tax, will not be achieved if the eu independently imposes such a tax. the risk that stock, bond and option trading will instead shift to less transparent and less open markets outside europe is too great. the proposal to introduce a european financial transaction tax is too risky.
in writing. − sport and sports are important elements in the lives of many people. we wholeheartedly support the initiatives set out in this report, such as the focus on fair competition rules and the fight against doping and betting fraud. however, not all worthy initiatives can be financially supported by the eu budget, and in times of continued economic difficulties, we believe that the demand for an ambitious budget for the sports sector in the next long-term eu budget sends the wrong signal. a responsible parliament must carefully weigh such a priority against other, equally important and laudable, priorities in order to determine how best to use taxpayers' money. we therefore vote against paragraph 1 of the report.
in writing. - the report by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on culture, youth, education and the media, on the european dimension of sport; my view is that sport is a national concern and in sweden the swedish national sport federation has a great deal of self-determination and is independent. with eu programmes and the introduction of a 'special and ambitious budget for sport policy', sport is moving towards becoming a more supranational activity rather than an independent and important actor in civil society. proposals for european coach training in the framework of lifelong learning programmes, measures to finance sport through lotteries, the partial payment of agent fees and eu flags on sportswear are some examples of measures which i consider to be completely outside the 'political boundaries'.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to take action to combat violence against women and children, and for the eu to support the efforts of the member states to combat violence against women and children. the various forms of violence against children and their mothers are a long-term blow to the basic functions of society and are a major reason for the systematic violence against women. the report proposes a future possibility of establishing an eu special representative, similar to the un, to work on women and security issues.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. the introduction of greater financial resources for women's issues does not necessarily improve gender equality, but rather we want to work towards deepening un resolution 1325 at eu level.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. it includes a statement that 'tax federalism' can be a useful tool for accountability in tax administration at regional level. we would like to emphasize here that we are not talking about taxation at european level but only taxation within countries, such as sweden, where we levy tax at municipal, county and state level.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european union's institutions. it includes a statement that 'tax federalism' can be a useful tool for accountability in tax administration at regional level. we would like to emphasize here that we are not talking about taxation at european level but only taxation within countries, such as sweden, where we levy tax at municipal, county and state level.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the report states that the commission should promote the separation of retail deposits from investment banking. we are sceptical of such a proposal because we do not believe that it would necessarily create a better financial sector, while at the same time economies of scale and synergies would be lost.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the definition of the term 'competition'. the report states that the commission should promote the separation of retail deposits from investment banking. we are sceptical of such a proposal, as we do not believe that it would necessarily create a better financial sector, while at the same time losing economies of scale and synergies.
member of the commission. mr president, my first words will be to express my very personal and warm thanks to mr antonio masip hidalgo for the remarkable work he has done on this regulation and for the role he has personally played in the agreement reached with the council a few days ago, on 19 december. i would also like to welcome the efforts of other members of the committee on legal affairs, including the non-attached rapporteurs, and the opinion rapporteurs of the committee on culture and education and the committee on the internal market and consumer protection, sabine verheyen and adam bielan. it is all these efforts, and others that i cannot name, that have made it possible to reach this balanced, positive compromise, which i want to support, mr hidalgo. i would also like to express my gratitude to the polish presidency for supporting this dossier until the approval i have just mentioned. ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur, mr hidalgo, has said, the protection of intellectual property is very important to me. it's an important issue for our economy. this is a major challenge we must face together for competitiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. today is the time of the internet, of course, and of europe. that is why, on 24 may, i launched a comprehensive action plan to modernise the rules currently governing the protection of intellectual property in europe. the creation of this european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights - it will therefore be called, mr hidalgo, as parliament has requested, the european observatory on infringements of intellectual property rights - i agree with this name - is a major initiative in this direction. this is the first legislative initiative of this action plan. the observatory will be one of the pillars of our common fight against these offences. the creation of this observatory represents two important developments: firstly, it will be a meeting place and a forum for exchange between technical experts from the public and private sectors; and secondly, it will provide a new capacity to obtain reliable data on the real impact of these offences on the economy and jobs in europe. it is important to understand the phenomenon so that we can react appropriately. i would like to thank parliament for supporting our proposal in the negotiations with the council, particularly when it came to ensuring that the information and data are properly provided by the states to the observatory. and thanks to this agreement, the observatory will become fully operational within the office for harmonization in the internal market as soon as possible. this will not, ladies and gentlemen, mark the end of all our efforts and cooperation. my departments will remain fully involved in all the observatory's activities, in a spirit of cooperation with the office. the commission will also be one of the main beneficiaries of the services provided by the observatory, due to the increased credibility and objectivity of the data it will collect. the regulation will also give the commission the possibility of referring the office for recommendations in the areas dealt with by the observatory. i hope, ladies and gentlemen, that parliament will remain very closely involved in the work of the observatory, as we have proposed, as you have asked and as i have reminded you, no later than friday afternoon when, mr hidalgo, i was in alicante for a whole day to greet the 1 200 people who work at the office of trademarks and designs. they are doing a remarkable, extremely modern job and it is in alicante, thanks to you and this agreement, that the work of this observatory, which we are thus creating thanks to your decision and your work, will be financially and technically supported. i just wanted to say thank you so much. it is very important, ladies and gentlemen, that we have a good knowledge of these phenomena and these offences, so that we can act correctly and not in the wrong way. now this is the tool that we're going to put in place, that's starting to be put in place, and that's going to be possible because of you.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the main problem with intellectual property policy, both at eu level and in most of the member states, is that it is almost completely based on what industry lobbyists are claiming, which is founded on very little proper research. there are very many reports on intellectual property that have been compiled by the lobbyists basically taking one big number out of thin air, multiplying it by another big number and saying: ‘wow, we lose this amount of money’ (or jobs, or whatever). one prime example of such a report is the terrorism report, which was actually mentioned in the commission’s communication on this observatory. so i am very concerned about this observatory, but many people – including people from the ohim – have said ‘no, the observatory will start collecting proper academic research’. if that actually is the case, i think it would be extremely valuable, because there is a lot of very good academic research showing that the issue of intellectual property and intellectual property infringements is not necessarily as simple as the lobbyists are saying, far from it. to give the proposal the benefit of the doubt – despite my misgivings about it – hopefully the observatory can be something good if it really focuses on proper academic research. for that reason, i will be abstaining rather than voting against this proposal.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. the world today is in the midst of a technological revolution which has been substantially beneficial for the citizens of europe. the internet provides services like unlimited access to music, movies and books with just a few keystrokes, and someone living in the countryside where i grew up, in kalix in northern sweden, has the same access to cultural expressions as someone living in cultural megacities like paris or london. the basic principles underlying our copyright legislation must remain valid in the digital age, but we must also dare to see that the new age means that some old systems must be modernised and simplified. collective rights management is one such system, which needs to be adapted to the 21st century. the digital cultural service providers of tomorrow must have a simpler life than today. it is not reasonable for a small company to have to hire legions of lawyers and negotiate rights in 27 countries for a long time in order to offer access to a wide repertoire of european works. we must recognise that european solutions are needed to break down barriers to trade and open up opportunities for entrepreneurs. big changes like the ones we've just been through create nervousness and, i suppose, a reflex to hold on to what you have instead of creating and reaching for something better. that is my interpretation of the commission's tardiness in this matter. the past process has been too long and europe must now have political leadership that shows that we can do more and we can do better. i therefore expect more from you, commissioner barnier, and assure you that i and the alde group in all its essentials will contribute in a constructive and pragmatic way to the development of appropriate proposals for a functioning digital single market for the 21st century.
madam president, i would like to thank you. one of the most serious consequences of the european crisis is the very high youth unemployment rate we are living with today, which in some parts of the eu member states is as high as 50 per cent, as some of the speakers at this meeting have said. during the 2009 european elections campaign, josé manuel barroso promised that the fight against youth unemployment would be the most important task for him and the commission he wanted to lead. so far, we haven't seen much of it. there are enormous expectations and there is an enormous need to do something about the fact that we are ignoring the young generation that will lead europe in the future. now suddenly there is almost 100 billion euros on the table and it would be great if this money could be used. it's late, but it would be very urgent. the question then is why the money has to be taken from the structural funds in particular. is it true that the advocates of cohesion policy are at the bottom of the career ladder and are the easiest to attack? there are other parts of the eu budget that could be released without having to disrupt the work of the structural funds. the question is also how long it will take before this could be in place. there is a desperation among europe's young people. we have to move fast.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, everyone agrees, it seems, that in the future common fisheries policy long-term management plans should be the basis of management. this failure to come up with a solution for anchovy and for horse mackerel – for two years now the institutions have not really come up with a solution – could be interpreted by citizens as proof that the eu institutions are not mature enough or efficient enough to deal with even such relatively simple questions. these issues need to be resolved for the eu to be credible in its reform of fisheries policies. we need to put this dispute on competences into perspective in relation to the real issue here, which is that we have the responsibility to defend and optimise what is really a public good – fish and the marine environment. this leads me to the second topic of this debate, the contribution the cfp makes to the common good. let us be honest here. technology advances all the time and fishermen become more and more efficient at fishing, which means we need fewer fishermen today to catch the same amount of fish as were caught yesterday. employment in the catching sector in europe today accounts for less than 0.1% of the total eu labour force and half of these licensed fishermen are only fishing part-time. any increased employment in the sector must involve things other than being more efficient at fishing. this could be ‘pesca-tourism’, it could mean adding value to catches in different ways, but one thing is for sure, if increased employment is what we want then we cannot promote more efficient fishing methods, including giving funds to fuel-efficient engines. i would also like to point out that it is a proven fact that over-fishing promotes algal blooms in europe, causing lots of problems for different sectors. fish in aquaculture pens die because of it, fishing gear gets clogged by it, and tourists seek other destinations when they cannot swim because of the green pea soup. a low estimate puts costs in europe caused by algal bloom at eur 177 million per year. when we speak about fish as a common good it is very important to keep in mind the different functions of wild fish in our oceans. one is to provide food, but another much more important one is that fish are crucial agents in the marine ecosystems. when we deplete stocks, water quality suffers and thereby many other economic sectors in europe, such as tourism, do so too.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the trade agreement with morocco on fruit and vegetables is much more important than it sounds. few things have hurt the economies of north africa as much as the eu's tariffs on fruit and vegetables, with unemployment and poverty as their consequences. we are their biggest market and we have high tariffs on some of their most important exports. the minimum prices we are applying here are the most cynical of all, because the more productive they are in their production, the higher the duties they face. it's an effective way to keep them on the mat, to keep them in poverty. this agreement is therefore an important step away from an old policy. let's not forget that the arab spring was just started by a fruit and vegetable trader who killed himself in protest. i therefore hope that this agreement is only the first step, that the commission will move forward and that we will soon have agreements with tunisia, libya, egypt and perhaps one day also syria. it is not enough to talk loudly about helping, we need a helping hand, and that helping hand is probably best served in this case by lowering the tariffs. that's how we helped the balkans after the war: with lower tariffs to trade for prosperity. we will also help the countries of north africa, trade for prosperity.
rapporteur. − madam president, through the decision on european radio spectrum policy we are taking necessary and crucial steps to regain european global leadership regarding mobile telephones, with all the opportunities that provides for the european telecoms industry as well as for new services and new jobs and growth. it is important to underline that this is what this decision is about: not only telecoms but also giving new dynamism to the european economy. i would like to thank the commissioner, the hungarian and polish presidencies and the shadow rapporteurs for the results. for quite a long time, europe had the leadership in mobile telecoms. it was a common european gsm standard together with european deregulation that paved the way for a dynamic european telecoms industry with new innovations, where new technolgies created growth and prosperity. we have lost that momentum and we can today see a new global economy with new actors – china, india – competing together with us and the us. we need to make the necessary efforts to lead new development not only because of the telecoms industry as such, but also because of the need to recover competitiveness. at the same time, we have seen the demand for mobile data traffic really explode, and it will continue to increase extremely rapidly, with all the opportunities for new services. my ambition in the report on this decision was that, within a multi-annual spectrum programme, we should try to take the lead regarding this second wave of internet revolution which we are facing. i want us to lead the process of change and i want us to create the best opportunities in europe regarding competitiveness and the use of telecoms opportunities. to phrase it very simply: i want europe to be number one, not number two, not number three and not number four. however, if we are to be number one, we must take the decisions which can make us number one. i am therefore very glad that we have been able to raise our ambitions in this process. thanks to this decision we will free up the 800 mhz band from january 2013, which will provide european telecoms industries and new services with the capacity which is needed. with this decision we set the target of freeing up, no later than 2015, a total of 1 200 mhz for wireless services, which will assure that we can meet the increasing demands and be in the lead for quite a long time, offering the best possible capacities for european industries, be it the service sector or the telecoms industry as such. we have also agreed that in 2015 the commission will assess the need for a further freeing-up of frequencies in order to secure that we have the best opportunities. we have decided that we shall create a european inventory and assure that we have all the necessary opportunities for wi-fi in other areas. so, all in all, madam president, what we have before us is a decision which will provide us with opportunities not only to achieve leadership in telecoms but also to increase competitiveness and opportunities for new services. i thank you all for your cooperation and look forward to the debate here tonight and the decision tomorrow.
vice-president of the commission. − madam president, there are a couple of intriguing questions. one specific point was made by marietje schaake and by ms băsescu, talking about an unlicensed spectrum for wi-fi. this is very important, there is no doubt about that, and we will examine that. that is also linked to the point that was touched upon by ms zuber: indeed, public access will be part of the inventory, as it were. it is not all about licensed and commercial users. my final conclusion so far is that i am pleased to note – i hope i may be so bold as to say this – that all the members agree on the absolute importance of increased access to spectrum as a means to provide growth and give a push to jobs. it is very important that we all agree on that issue: that the role of radio spectrum boosts growth in europe and provides real and tangible benefits for european consumers; and that the radio spectrum programme to be adopted by parliament tomorrow will not only give a good feeling after all the hard work by parliament, council and the commission, but is indeed one of those tokens whereby we can prove to the outside world that there are positive messages too. i want to thank all of you for your constructive collaboration and work during the whole procedure. time flies, a lot of blood, sweat and tears have been shed, but in the end only the result counts. i think that a wonderful job has been done by all of you.
rapporteur. − madam president, spectrum is limited but the opportunities are unlimited, as we have seen with developments in the past and as we will see with the development that we are now facing. i think it is fair to say that media and culture will have more opportunities than ever to reach the audience, as we see is happening just now. things are changing, and i think the most important lesson to learn from this debate is that the enormous, rapid development we have seen in the past decade will be just as rapid and surprising in the coming decade. it is important for us to secure the full capacity to take advantage of all this, for media and culture as well as for new services. that is why i think it is also important, regarding the next steps, to secure the rapid implementation of this legislation, but at the same time to prepare for the next steps, because we have only seen the beginning of a new development, of a second wave of internet revolution. this will have its consequences and opportunities, as we have seen in the demonstrations in northern africa, and as we have seen in the revolution in different parts of our economies. the faster we are, the more use we can make of the next steps. we have decided to set the target of 1200 mhz; that is for 2015. after that we should assess the needs and proceed rapidly in the next few years, because the future is coming closer and closer and we need to be in the lead. in order to be in the lead, we need to take the lead, and proceed by being the first to open up new opportunities all the time, because they are unlimited while the resource, the spectrum, is limited.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we must do something about the lack of matching in the european labour market. since 2010, we have not only skyrocketing unemployment, but also a sharply increasing labor shortage. employers are finding it increasingly difficult to find the skills they are looking for. this is ominous. unless strong action is taken, high unemployment will become permanent and competitiveness will be eroded. most governments are too passive in improving matching. firstly, a more active labour market policy is needed, whereby all those who become unemployed are given the opportunity to directly improve their skills to match available jobs, and secondly, lifelong learning must be put into practice. everyone must be given the opportunity to learn at all stages of life. broad education initiatives covering school, higher education, vocational training and further training are needed to ensure that the workforce continuously matches the increasingly knowledge-intensive jobs that need to be created. there must be a new way of thinking in this area.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the existing aid scheme to cover the costs of the new scheme, which will be implemented in the next five years. the programme was introduced at a time when there were large stocks of agricultural products and it was considered a just solution to distribute these foodstuffs to those in need. as the eu's agricultural policy has been adapted to the market, these stocks have been reduced and the possibility of stocking raw materials with eu funds has been abolished for several products. we would have liked to see other forms of support for the most vulnerable in society, as the eu and the member states must take responsibility, not only for the economic institutions, but also for their people in times of economic crisis.
in writing. the commission is also proposing that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000 and on the draft budget for the financial year 2000. these are plans which are at this stage only at the conceptual stage and which need to be worked through very carefully before they can possibly be put into practice. at the same time, as representatives of the electorate of a non-euro country, we have no interest in preventing the euro countries from moving quickly in these areas if they consider it necessary. as long as the single market and wider eu cooperation are not adversely affected, it must be up to the euro countries themselves to choose the solutions they consider appropriate to manage sovereign debt and save the single currency.
in writing. − it is our conviction that a system of permanent joint liability for sovereign debt is no short-term solution for the euro area. there are a number of issues concerning moral hazard, incentives, impacts on interest rates and legal constraints that, to date, have not been investigated properly by the commission. when the debt crisis has been resolved in the euro area and the member states have reduced their budget deficits, such a system could be evaluated. there are, however, necessary strict preconditions that have to be met for a common issuance of bonds, for example a culture of stability must have been credibly established in the euro area and a sustainable fiscal framework needs to be in place, aimed at ensuring both enhanced economic governance and economic growth in the euro area.
in writing. − today we voted in favour of the resolution on employment and social aspects of the 2012 annual growth survey. we would point out, however, that higher tax outcomes are good and that actively fighting discrimination is good, but that these are subsidiarity issues. we are also opposed to the demand for a financial transaction tax.
mr president, i would like to thank you. violence is now reigning in syria and we knew that from the very beginning. we met many concerned eyewitnesses and relatives who came here to strasbourg. they were standing here outside the parliament building and some of them came in and talked to us. we have therefore known for a long time what is going on and we know that what the syrian leaders are doing is a crime against humanity. what can the eu do? one thing is clear: humanitarian aid alone is not enough, although it is very important. we also know, in my view, that military action is not an option. the veto in the un makes it particularly important that the eu, together with others, form a broad political front, using all the means at its disposal in a world where international dependence is so strong, including for a country like syria. the images and information are there as a public resource for the whole world, not just for those in syria. we will show solidarity, we will put very strong pressure on russia and china, we will cooperate with the arab league and others, we will seek all avenues and we will keep the arms trade in order. however, we shall exclude the option of initiating military action.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would also like to thank the rapporteur, mr derek vaughan, who i think is doing an extremely serious and creative job with parliament's own budget and the administrative budgets of the other institutions. i also note that he has been praised by virtually all the other political groups, which shows that he has succeeded in creating a broad consensus on where we stand. it is indeed worth noting that there is a new attitude. so far parliament's budget has increased every year, but now there is a broad consensus that we should freeze the budget at the global level and that we should make big cuts in certain individual areas. there is also a great deal of agreement that we should start being restrictive with regard to members' own costs. i think that's very important. the report has had a real impact, as we can see from the fact that only seven amendments have been tabled, which i believe is a record. if we look at the figures, we can see that whereas traditionally we have always been at 20% of the long-term budget level for administrative expenditure, we are now down to about 19%, and that is actually a saving of about 70 million euros. this is, of course, due to pressure from the outside world, but the point is that we are not just cutting back. what we need to do above all is to find a way forward, which is about efficiency, modernisation, economy - and i think we are only at the beginning. i believe this can be done without compromising the quality of the core business. we must, of course, defend the legislative and budgetary work in particular, but this requires a lot of systematic work. i am therefore very pleased that we have been able to reach agreement on the creation of a working group in parliament with the possibility of involving external expertise in areas where we can learn a lot: buildings, maintenance, energy, the environment, procurement, travel and so on. these are areas where we can learn from both business and public administration. in areas such as the organisation of legislative work, interpretation, translation and so on, i am convinced that we can learn from other parliaments and from other international organisations. then, of course, this parliament has costs that are not comparable - travel, interpretation, etc. - because this is the only multinational legislative parliament in the world and we must of course take that into account. finally, and i am not speaking as the coordinator of my group, but as a swedish social democrat, if we are to be respected for the way we manage the trust of citizens and taxpayers' money, we cannot continue to move parliament between brussels and strasbourg in the long term. so i appeal to the governments now pushing to cut the eu budget: please put this question on the agenda seriously.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the family is the one that can give a person security, belonging and security in life. if for any reason you have to leave both your country and your family, you always carry within you the dream of being part of the family again, of being reunited, of being together. that hope never dies. the commission has now reviewed the implementation of the 2003 directive on the right to family reunification and found that many member states are having problems making it work in practice. i therefore welcome new, clearer guidelines from the commission to the member states. the provisions are in many respects vague and new guidelines can help to safeguard the existing provisions and be a good tool for the member states, but i am against the introduction of new provisions and i strongly question the timing of the commission's choice to release this green paper on the future of family reunification. if we open up to the adoption of new regulations, i think there is a risk that the outcome will be worse than it is today and that fewer people will be reunited with their families. i would like to hear how the commission intends to deal with the implementation of this directive, which several member states are doing so badly. have any infringement procedures been initiated? if infringement proceedings have not been initiated, why not? what's the excuse? let us also remember that in fact only one member state, namely the netherlands, has asked for an amendment to the directive, and more than that should be required to open up new provisions. we all have the right to family life through international human rights instruments, and this right to live together, to love and to belong together should not be jeopardized by any of us. the directive must provide guarantees to protect the right to belong and to be a human being together with other human beings in a family.
you know, ask for a blue card. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to ask mr claeys if he is capable of imagining in an empathetic way that it is he and his family who, for various reasons - war, poverty, famine or whatever - are forced to leave their country and cannot be reunited in a safe country. i just wonder if he ever thought about the idea that it might apply to him and his loved ones. is it not true that the right to love one's children or parents is a universal right, regardless of one's country of origin?
in the light of the above, i would like to ask the commissioner whether he is prepared to accept amendment no 2 which calls for a rapid assessment of the situation: i voted for amendment no 2 in the report on the guidelines for the 2013 budget because i wholeheartedly support a single seat for parliament which would lead to substantial savings. since becoming an mep in 2009, i have been involved in pushing for a single seat for the european parliament, and i voted for one, instead of two, sessions in september. i actively support the single seat campaign, which is being run by a group of meps who are committed to finding a solution to this issue. in a situation of economic crisis, it is remarkable that the eu continues to spend millions of euros each year on having two seats. in addition to the economic aspect, there would also be major environmental gains if there were a common seat and the regular transport of personnel and materials between brussels and strasbourg were avoided. if we do not find a solution soon, there is a risk that confidence in the european parliament as an institution will be eroded. i say enough of the moving carousel between strasbourg and brussels!
in writing. - despite the criticism and serious questions raised about a number of the hungarian government's legislative acts, including those concerning the judiciary, we do not see any reason to question its democratic commitments. we believe that the serious issues raised should be followed up by the legal procedure now in place, based on the common rules and laws on which the eu is founded. we therefore consider it important that the commission should carry out its task of ensuring that the treaty is upheld by carefully examining the new constitution of hungary. we do not, however, believe that the european parliament should judge on party political grounds either the cases which are now the subject of judicial review by the commission or the internal political disputes of the member states.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the common resolution. not, however, because i share all the views and opinions expressed herein. i voted in favour of the resolution as i believe it is necessary to send a strong message to the hungarian government that calls for respect for democratic rights. however, i support completely the efforts made by the council of europe (note: which is composed of 47 countries – and is not the same as the european council) in securing respect for democracy and human rights in hungary.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats cannot support a trade agreement which is contrary to international law. that is why we voted against this agreement between the eu and morocco. the eu can only conclude agreements with the occupying power of morocco that include western sahara territory if certain strict conditions are met. these conditions that the agreement should be in accordance with the will and interest of the occupied people are not fulfilled. the legal service of the european parliament therefore considers that the compatibility of this fta with the international agreements binding on the eu and its member states cannot be guaranteed. when the european parliament asked the european commission whether products from western sahara should be covered by the agreement, the commission replied [i] the extent to which exports of products from western sahara actually benefit from the trade preferences. both efta and the united states have trade agreements with morocco which do not affect western sahara. the eu should of course respect international law in the same way.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide system of origin and origin declarations. we support the eu's commitment to improving trade relations with the mediterranean countries and to creating effective and fair trade rules. but we cannot ignore the fact that the eu has encountered a number of problems in applying the rules of origin to products originating in the israeli settlements in the occupied palestinian territories. the problem of determining the true origin of products exported from israel must be solved in a better way. the risk is that, if no effective solution is found, this could become a tool for the expansion of this abuse. goods cumulated by third countries with israel must respect the same territorial principles as the eu. this is also in line with the judgment of the court of justice of the european union in the so-called uk case. in addition, it is unclear how the agreement deals with goods from western sahara.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the only thing the death penalty shows is that society accepts and promotes premeditated murder. it is an act of utter barbarism that should be consigned to history. what's especially barbaric in japan is that families don't even get a chance to say goodbye. but it is also based on the belief that a person has no faith when faced with a death sentence. every human being must be given a chance to improve, a hope for a different future, a hope for improvement. if this hope of improvement and opportunity for life is not given to an individual, what hope is there for mankind? japan is not a barbaric country and therefore i hope that the investigation will show that they abolish their death penalty and that is what we are demanding. the minister of justice should uphold the position of his representative. do not move until you have abolished the death penalty once and for all.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. in the light of all that happens in a year, even major disasters such as the one in fukushima may be forgotten. focus is shifting. we, the decision-makers, are concentrating on other crises and problems, while the media's eyes are on something else. it is therefore very good and important that we in the european parliament, among others, should now pay attention to the anniversary of the fukushima disaster. what happened on march 11, 2011, was a disaster that few could have foreseen. it was an earthquake, a tsunami, and nuclear meltdowns that would lead to the almost immediate death of more than 19,000 people and the displacement of 325,000. the small town of ukedo, just north of fukushima, was completely destroyed. many of the residents there also died. this city is no longer habitable. its population has been dispersed and now lives in surrounding towns. but there is still a city. it remains in survivors and in relationships between people from workplaces, from schools, from neighborhoods, but as time goes on, these bonds and these networks also fade. nothing will be left. fukushima was not only a human tragedy, but this disaster of course revived the debate on nuclear energy. the main lesson that i think we can learn from fukushima is this simple, but sometimes difficult, lesson: the future is not in nuclear power. nuclear technology will certainly remain in various forms for a considerable time, but unless states actively choose to build nuclear power through political choices, it is simply not viable. the market is not investing in nuclear power. nuclear power is entirely dependent on subsidies. nuclear power is thus becoming more expensive, while renewable energy is becoming cheaper. it's as simple as that. each country has the right to decide on its own energy sources. however, the political responsibility now lies with us in the eu, with us in the member states, to show that an energy future can be made possible by renewable energy. in this area we have a great challenge. alternative and renewable energy sources are not seen today as sufficiently developed, as efficient, as broad enough, as something for ordinary industry, for ordinary societies, for ordinary citizens. if we are to do that, it will require a huge investment in research, in development, in infrastructure, in actually developing this energy source in cooperation between the market and society. we are holding this debate to remember and honor the victims of fukushima. we also have it as a springboard for the future. what we need to show is that there are lessons to be learned from history.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i would first like to thank sophia in 't veld for a very good report which raises a number of important issues in the field of gender equality. these include the need to expand care facilities such as pre-schools and homes for the elderly, to tackle the gender pay gap and to call for legislative action to combat male violence against women. i am also glad that in your report you emphasize the right of women to their own bodies and thus to contraception and safe and legal abortion. there is one point, however, on which i do not agree with you, and that is the question of prostitution. i'm having a little trouble with the concept of forced prostitution. that would be to say that somehow you think there is a voluntary prostitution. for me, this is completely wrong. the whole prostitution system is based on the exploitation of women, on commercial recklessness and on an outdated view of male and female sexuality. i shall therefore vote against amendment no 7 by the rapporteur. otherwise, it is a very good report, which i support in its entirety. i now turn to the other rapporteur, sirpa pietikäinen. i really want to thank you for your open-minded approach. that has undoubtedly contributed to the excellence of this report and its real emphasis on women's participation in politics. the eu and its member states must work much, much harder to ensure that more women are treated equally in our representative democracy. there must be an end to today's man quota. although women make up 50 per cent of the population, they are not represented democratically in political assemblies. in the european parliament, it is just over a third. in the national parliaments, the situation is even worse. on average, it's not even 25 percent women. this is embarrassingly low! we cannot just keep talking and talking about change, but now we need action. in many cases, legislative action will be needed to address this. one way is to introduce different forms of quotas, if necessary. but as sophia in 't veld said, it may not be what you start with, but at some point you have to address this issue. some people find quotas outrageous. yes, i agree. i'm upset about today's male quota. it is silent and informal, but nevertheless men are quoted at the expense of women. some even say that it is bad for women to be elected because of their gender, but it is rather that today's male quota is harmful to men, because people assume that many men are elected just because they are men. in the name of democracy, we must therefore have a system where the experiences of women and men can be exploited much, much more clearly and reflected in the parliamentary assemblies. i would therefore like to vote in favour of sirpa pietikäinen's report.
madam president, i would like to thank you. we need more women in leading positions in european business. the situation is very bleak. we know that diversity always pays off. but what about our own institutions? in the commission, 9 out of 27 commissioners are women. in europe, women are a majority, but at eu summits they are a very small minority, even worse after yesterday's elections in slovakia. of the 39 judges of the court of justice of the european union, 7 are women. the court of auditors is composed of 3 women and 24 men. there is not a single woman in the leadership of the european central bank. not a single woman! in our own parish, we have today less gender equality in the new bureau than we had in the first half of the mandate. shame on us! the debate must not, however, be limited to the question of whether or not to allocate quotas. there are other ways. try new ways of nominating. always nominate two candidates, one male and one female, for each position. create lists of competent candidates of both sexes. training of those responsible for nominations. the eu institutions must set a good example. otherwise, our proposals will be seen as mere gossip.
madam president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? i welcome the fact that we are having a debate on an annual report on gender equality. it is important that we focus our attention on what needs to be done. we have to do a lot more. we still have a long way to go. i regret, however, that the debate has been partly hijacked by family policy, which has no place at eu level. we must respect different cultures, traditions and religions. we'd better do that at home. what we can and should do is to get more involved in enabling the participation of women in leadership positions. i really appreciate commissioner reding's commitment to the status of women, but i do not think that quota legislation at eu level is the right way forward. women should be able to move forward on their own merits, on their own skills and knowledge. it is important to put pressure on the business community to continue the debate, but not to legislate. it's not just about the stock market. we want women in leadership positions in all parts of society. why not the principals, the hospital directors and other important posts? the important thing is to accept that women are an asset both in business and in politics. the way forward must also be based on freedom of choice. we should not force women into a model, but we women must be able to choose our own path, what we want to do and how we want to do it. we're supposed to make it easier for women, to make this possible, but not to be in charge. we should draw the attention of the member states to this and encourage them to take measures to facilitate the family puzzle, for example. economic independence is one of the good alternative paths to gender equality. it must be easy to start and run a business. i am glad that the report recognises women's entrepreneurship as a way forward. it is basically about changing the culture, the mentality and the attitudes. it's supposed to be normal for women to be in leadership positions. we have to teach our children that. facilitating access to the labour market for migrant women is also a natural pathway towards gender equality. i'm going to end by saying that as we strive to break the glass ceiling, we need to focus on vulnerable women. violence against women, violence against women in the home, sexual assault against women is still a growing phenomenon. if you compare this with the debate on quotas, it is a luxury debate. i hope that in the future we will have a real fight, especially against violence against women.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. within the european institutions, we have gradually built up an understanding of each other's differences. this is most obvious in our choice of language. united in diversity. it has been absolutely essential for european integration that we have discussed and thought together about how to tackle different ways of solving problems and understanding each other's differences. only through the exchange of experience can we learn to look beyond differences and instead try to find what increases respect for each other's differences. i am convinced that this also applies to the legal professions - judges, prosecutors and lawyers. it is easier to build trust between the judicial systems of the member states if there are face-to-face meetings, meetings where people can talk, have a dialogue and also educate each other in face-to-face meetings. only in this way can respect and knowledge be built and differences be bridged. an important part of ensuring that the rules we decide here have the intended effect throughout our member states is that we provide opportunities for increased exchange and discussion among those who are called upon to interpret our laws and regulations. i therefore believe that this debate at this late hour is a proposal which will take us further and closer to a common understanding of what european legal culture is and can be in the future.
mr president, i would like to thank you. keeping the eu together despite the tensions between regions and countries is now the most important task for the union's leaders. president sarkozy should reconsider and not challenge nationalist sentiments. history should have taught him a lesson. the european parliament's annual tax report, for which i was responsible, states that broad and sustainable fiscal consolidation is necessary, but we must also focus on growth. it is about how we can create more growth in europe and thus more employment at national and eu level. it is particularly important that we look at how we can improve the internal market and create a more competitive europe. combating youth unemployment, promoting growth and the conditions for small business and breaking down tax barriers are key. we risk leaving a whole generation in europe without hope for a better future. let me end by saying that when listening to mr farage, mr eppink, mr gollnisch and the others, i think that sometimes they ought to remember what european history is all about. i think that we in this chamber ought to remember this. previously in history, mr. gollnisch, we solved the problem on the battlefield. we don't do that now. i listen to you, you listen to me, and i think that is the way we should all prefer the history of europe. mr gollnisch, i think you are damaging the european idea of working together, and it is not our fault; i think you should also consider your own responsibility.
mr president, if the problem of the european economy were that our public spending is too low and our deficits too small, we would have no problems at all. i want to say this in response to the debate here, as it sounds as if we could solve our problems by increasing public spending and increasing the deficits, thereby achieving social cohesion and economic growth. we have seen the contrary: that uncontrolled public spending and big deficits are undermining social security and hindering growth, and creating the austerity of increasing interest rates. that is the reality, and those who believe that increased public spending is the solution to our problems should just look around and take a look at our problems. on the other hand what we need to do is to create a new way of stimulating the economy. i think it is important for the commission to understand that the way to social cohesion and social security does not run parallel to the policy for economic growth. economic growth and new jobs are the key issue in order to achieve social development in europe that we can all be satisfied with. that is why i would like to urge the commission to proceed with the reforms for the internal market, for competitiveness in the member states and for making the european union the biggest market in the world.
madam president, in the last roll-call vote before this one, it said amendment 26 on the screen so that was what i thought i voted on in the vote before this one.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it is also good that the report highlights the importance of taking strong action against domestic violence. however, i voted against the report because i regret that it is being hijacked in part by family policy which has no place at eu level. we must show respect for different cultures, traditions and religions. issues such as parental leave, budgetary measures and policy priorities in the area of gender equality should be left to member states and decided at national level. what we can and should do instead is to get more involved in enabling greater participation by women, but legislating on quotas at eu level is not the way forward. we want to promote women in leadership positions in all areas, but the way up is through jobs and by breaking the exclusion of many immigrant women through increased access to work.
in writing. - we believe that the principle of subsidiarity should be respected. issues such as possible legislation on quotas, parental leave, budgetary measures relating to gender equality and national policy priorities should therefore be decided at national level.
in writing. − there is still a long way to go before the eu achieves a society of equality, with equal opportunities for women and men. we therefore welcome the fact that these two reports point to successful measures and highlight the many obstacles that still remain. but even if we voted for the reports as a whole, we would like to stress that we do not think the focus should be on the eu forcing companies and organisations to set quotas for women by legislation. instead, we believe there are other ways to break down the negative attitudes that hinder women's participation, including through skills development, mentoring and better support for women who want to invest in their careers.
in writing. - i voted against the report because i believe that quotas are not the solution to the problem of gender equality. it is important that we commit ourselves to empowering women, but women must advance on their skills and knowledge and through changing attitudes in society. it is through the education of our children and young people that we can change the perception of the role of women and overcome stereotypes in the long term. men and women should have equal opportunities in political decision-making and employment should be based on merit, not gender. quotas and top management won't solve the imbalance. instead, the road to success must be built on freedom of choice. economic independence is the path to equality. we must, for example, make it easier for women to become entrepreneurs and give them the courage to start their own business.
in writing. - we believe that men and women should have the same opportunities in political decision-making. employment should therefore be based on competence and not on gender. the commission therefore concluded that the union industry did not suffer material injury within the meaning of article 3 (5) of the basic regulation.
in writing. − there is still a long way to go before the eu achieves a society of equality, with equal opportunities for women and men. we therefore welcome the fact that these two reports point to successful measures and highlight the many obstacles that still remain. but even if we voted for the reports as a whole, we would like to stress that we do not think the focus should be on the eu forcing companies and organisations to set quotas for women by legislation. we believe that there are other ways to break down the negative attitudes that hinder women's participation, including through skills development, mentoring and better support for women who want to invest in their careers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report. the sce statute was adopted in 2003 and this report strengthens the rights of employees. personally, i believe that co-ops should be built from the bottom up. the fact that there are only a few sces in the eu is due to the fact that such projects cannot be created from the top down at the union level. however, for the few sce cooperatives that already exist, it is important to strengthen the rights of workers. the fact that there is no text on full trade union rights for employees in cooperatives is very negative, but since the report is, after all, a step forward, i have voted in favour of it.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution tabled by my group, gue/ngl. this is because i am critical of parts of the bologna process, particularly because the bologna process takes too much account of the needs of business and the market, instead of seeing the importance of the autonomy of education and universities. i also stress the importance of taking strong action against the social mismatch in higher education, which in the present difficult crisis risks worsening. finally, i would stress that each country has its own specific history and educational tradition which must be respected, although i am of course in favour of a large-scale exchange of students and opportunities to study in other countries, as well as the search for common criteria for evaluating education in different countries.
in writing. - i have abstained from voting on the report. the reason for this is that the report is so unilaterally linked to the austerity pact and its requirements for economic governance, monitoring and control. of course, i fully support the proposals that statistics must be obtained impartially, objectively and with professional independence. however, it would be a good thing if the report also highlighted the importance of statistics on employment, wage gaps, class differences and environmental effects. these are areas that will be heavily affected by the austerity pact.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, there is really not much argument on the topic of this discussion tonight in plenary; those countries that are eligible to increase cofinancing of the eff have indeed severe budget constraints today, and we support this step to make it easier for them to implement their fisheries programmes and invest in the future. i think that in this context, it is important – especially for those countries that have declining areas which are very dependent on fisheries – to take the opportunity offered by this amended regulation also to review and update operational programmes and adapt in order to become competitive in the future. in our opinion, the proposal for a new european maritime and fisheries fund that will replace the current european fisheries’ fund shows the way. there is only one way for member states aiming to mitigate and reduce the risk of future crises in the fisheries sector, and that is to rebuild stocks. no young person in the european union today wants to invest their future in a business that is not sustainable but is dependent on subsidies; if there were, consumers would not accept it. fisheries have to be ecologically sustainable in order to be economically and socially sustainable in the long term. with no fish there can be no fishermen. the future emff must be designed and implemented in order to support the objectives of the cfp, especially the sustainable exploitation of marine resources. in these times of budget restraints it is even more important that the entire european maritime and fisheries fund be geared for supporting sustainability. public aid should be restricted to investments that are in the public interest. considerable amounts of money from the structural funds used to be awarded to building new vessels and modernising existing ones. in the new emff, the commission is proposing some significant changes, including the suggestion to terminate public aid for scrapping, which is still available under the current programme. the european court of auditors has criticised the scrapping aid for not having contributed to the reduction of fleet capacity. indeed, if a ship owner knows that a handsome subsidy for leaving the fleet in the future will always be available, there is good reason to stay on and hope that the situation improves. such aid is not consistent with the promotion of sustainable fishing. aid for the modernisation of fishing vessels is rarely in the public interest either, and while the idea of paying a ship owner to install a more energy-efficient engine which emits less co2 may be seductive, it is in reality impossible to ensure that the fishing capacity and effort are not increased when an engine becomes more energy efficient. significant changes to the eu fishing fleets will be needed. if they are to be achieved, public aid could help in different ways. it must, however, be limited to measures which reduce the environmental impact of the fishing operations by such means as the conversion of vessels and gear to methods which are more selective or inflict less damage to the sea floor. social support measures during the restructuring of the eu fleet will also be critical. so far, such social support has been directed too much towards ship owners and too little towards the crew, and this imbalance must be redressed through measures such as retraining. only in this way will the fishing sector be sustainable in the future.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr christian dan preda, for his excellent cooperation. it feels good to be able to send a clear signal to iceland that we look forward to bringing iceland into the eu family. it would be a good thing for a new member state to have such a strong democratic tradition and a well-functioning market economy. membership of the eea and schengen already means that iceland has close cooperation with the eu and has made good progress in preparing for accession. it is therefore gratifying that the people and parliament of iceland want to complete the accession negotiations. i hope that we can now also have a good and serious debate in iceland about what eu membership means. as a member of the committee on budgets and having led a committee delegation to iceland last year, i should also note that iceland's accession will not impose any burden on the eu budget. in many areas, i even think that the eu could learn some important lessons from iceland. i'm thinking about iceland's way out of the economic crisis. it has successfully implemented the international monetary fund's recovery programme without the unilateral austerity that has unfortunately been imposed on greece, and has successfully introduced strict controls on the financial sector. i am thinking that iceland's membership could give the eu a more active role in the arctic and thus contribute to sustainable solutions in this sensitive region. i am thinking of the eu's fisheries policy, where we could learn a lot from iceland's more sustainable fishing model in the run-up to the eu's forthcoming reform. i am thinking of energy policy, where iceland, which gets almost all its energy from renewable sources, could make a valuable contribution through its world-leading knowledge of geothermal energy in particular. however, there remains a sensitive discussion with iceland on the abolition of whaling and the sale of whale products, as well as some unresolved fisheries and agricultural issues. i look forward to welcoming iceland as a member of the eu, but i am of course well aware that the outcome of a forthcoming referendum on eu membership is far from certain. for a yes to be a yes, there must be a sensible agreement on fisheries policy.
mr president, iceland is a small country but of great importance. it has contributed to forming our understanding of democracy and of the safeguarding of citizens’ rights. there is in the nordic area a mythical character to its democratic tradition that is based on reality. i think it is important to look at and discuss the details in the negotiations but also to see the bigger perspective. a european union reaching from iceland to cyprus will not only be a better union but also a stronger union. stronger in the nordic area, stronger in the arctic area, but also stronger in the sense that is proving, as iceland has demonstrated, that you can deal with economic crisis as a modern market economy and you can deal with all the future challenges. and i think it is important that we secure an agreement with iceland that can get the full support of the icelandic people.
mr president, i would like to thank you. if bosnia is to succeed, the eu must also play its part. we must help bosnia to strengthen the state coordination mechanisms. it must also be clear that the council of ministers in bosnia is responsible for this work. when eu representatives turn to bosnia, it should be to the council of ministers. we have been discussing bosnia for so many years, and both bosnia and the eu have had political goals and ambitions. this year, however, there is a new kind of hope, a positive momentum. the declaration by prime minister bevanda that his top priority will be bosnia's eu perspective and that the country should apply for candidate status as soon as possible. it's a good sign. we will absolutely support this cause.
in writing. - i voted for the report. however, i support the agreement reached at the un conference on biological diversity (nagoya, october 2010) which, among other things, called for the abolition of all subsidies that threaten fish stocks and the environment. the economic crisis in europe is caused by the dysfunction of the euro and by financial speculation. it is important that the neoliberal policy be broken. i can, however, support short-term proposals to ease austerity in countries that are particularly vulnerable, if this does not contribute to overfishing and has negative environmental consequences.
in writing. - i have abstained from voting on this report. i think the eu made the right decision in 1988 when it banned the import of beef treated with growth promoting hormones. the wto dispute settlement body ruled in 1996 that the us and canada would be entitled to impose trade sanctions on the eu on a whole range of products, as a legitimate response to the eu decision. and so it did, leading to a dispute resolution process and a memorandum of understanding. i believe that the original wto decision against the eu is based on a free trade principle which does not care about either environmental or social consequences. that is why this whole so-called settlement of the dispute is absurd, and i choose to abstain.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the report on the broad guidelines for the 2013 eu budget because we can support the overall priorities and objectives focusing on having a budget for economic recovery and growth. however, we do not accept the report's position on the size of the budget as such. contrary to what the report says, budgetary discipline and priorities are necessary. this is not just the case for the member states, but for the eu as a whole. in this context, we voted in favour of the amendments seeking clearer priorities in the budget, control of payments, evaluation of programmes, efficiency, control and a freeze of the budget, whereby instead of larger budget lines, priority is given to re-prioritization and transfers.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. we believe that it is important to maintain a reasonable rate of investment so that europe can remain competitive in the future. now more than ever we need to invest in jobs and growth research, development, climate and education. the eu budget must also be given sufficient resources to finance commitments already made. however, we would also like to stress that the eu should, as far as possible, take a restrictive stance and provide these resources through reallocation within the existing eu budget. we therefore supported amendments in this direction and welcome the writings that the eu should also identify negative priorities. we would prefer to see the agricultural budget reduced in favour of the priorities set out in the eu 2020 strategy, i.e. research and development, green transition, regional growth, etc.
in writing. - when the european parliament voted on 14 march on the guidelines for the preparation of the 2012 budget for the commission, i chose to vote in favour. this is because i support the overall objectives of a budget that is restrained and focuses on sustainability and growth. however, the report contains elements which run counter to the general guidelines. moderation is to be encouraged. in cases where more money has been requested, i have voted for amendments which seek to prevent this and have voted for clear measurable targets for disbursements to specific purposes. additional resources shall not be unnecessarily added and increased costs may be resolved by budgetary re-prioritization through transfers.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the joint resolution on diabetes because it is important to draw attention to one of the most widespread chronic health problems affecting 32 million europeans today. we need to address this problem through more knowledge, education, research and prevention. health issues should be addressed primarily at national level, but also to raise awareness of the consequences of diabetes across the eu. it is therefore important to improve cooperation between member states and to encourage the formulation of a diabetes strategy, in order to find more effective solutions to a disease that knows no borders. i particularly welcome the danish presidency's priority to this issue.
mr president, i would like to thank you. kazakhstan is in the process of democratization, which we should encourage. however, we should also be very clear about what we expect from kazakhstan. the recent events in connection with the oil workers' strike, in which 16 people were killed and oppositionists were imprisoned, show that we must insist on our values in our contacts with kazakhstan. in 2010, kazakhstan held the chairmanship of the osce. membership of an organisation which the osce also commits to and implies that the common values and rules must be respected. nevertheless, the osce reported that the parliamentary elections in january did not meet international electoral standards. after all that has happened since december 2011, it is clear that the confidence-building process among the people of kazakhstan is needed. however, this will not be possible unless we clarify the responsibilities of the strike, and it will not be possible unless we ensure respect for the rule of law, the implementation of legislation, respect for international rules and values, and the strengthening of the position of voluntary organizations in society. this is what we must help kazakhstan with, and this is what kazakhstan must commit itself to.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the danish minister said in his brief closing remarks that nigeria has good political leaders. it is possible that this is so, but it is still unfortunate that an oil-rich country like nigeria should be so thoroughly corrupt and that poverty should be so striking to the great mass of people in an oil-rich country like nigeria. the situation between muslims and christians has been brought to the fore in this debate. that it is devastating and terrifying no one can escape. the eu is now providing a number of million euros over a five-year period - almost 680 million. we naturally expect that this assistance will be accompanied by resolute demands - which i am also convinced the commissioner is making - on human rights and freedoms. i think that religious freedom needs to be specifically emphasised, because the concept of human rights and freedoms can be perceived as a bit 'limitless'. in nigeria, and not only in nigeria, it is about religious freedom. it is not just the group that has been mentioned here several times that we can turn to, but to the government in particular. we cannot be satisfied with simply denying, as has been said here, but we must also make demands. we know that nigeria is a multi-ethnic country and that it plays, and wants to play, a major role in africa. the country can certainly do that too, but something more is required of its own government.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? global emissions increased by six percent in 2010. in my own country, sweden, the increase in emissions was in the double digits. this is a double burden. first, the economic crisis has overshadowed the climate issue in terms of the priorities on the political agenda. we've had a difficult time debating the climate issue. others have intruded. secondly, the lower economic activity during the crisis should have led to lower emissions in general, but this has not happened. sweden is one example of this, and there are many more. and this crisis should have been used to make long-term climate investments that would help us get out of this economic black hole. it would be a chance for us to get back on our feet economically and to become stronger competitively. we're not there either. it means we have to keep holding on to our ambitions. of course it is. we have to get ahead of this. that is the task of the eu and europe. we must seize every opportunity. we have achieved some things in this political assembly: resource efficiency programmes and energy efficiency directives, which are about binding energy efficiency targets. that's how simple and detailed climate policy can be. i just want to tell connie hedegaard that she has the most important job on the commission. there are many people inside and outside this building who will support her at all times, because she is guarding this agenda.
mr president, this declaration is the result of a combined effort with dan jørgensen, pavel poc, esther de lange and andrea zanoni. we worked hard, and i wish to thank everybody who signed the declaration. the commission said eight years ago to parliament that it could reduce transport time but that we had to create the political pressure for this. well, parliament has done that, and one million signatures have been obtained for this initiative started by dan jørgensen and others. that means one million citizens, plus more than half of parliament and several ministers. now, commission, the political pressure is on you. please give us this legislation. i wish to thank all members. (applause)
the proposer. - madam president! - what is it? so once again we are faced with a country where the people must defend their human rights. they want to express themselves, they want to make their views known, they want to influence those in power. they do it peacefully, and then they get violently beaten down. we've seen too much of this this year. this time it is bahrain's problem that we are paying attention to. however, bahrain has taken certain measures. we see that they have put in place human rights instruments and have also carried out investigations. however, we demand full and independent investigations, and the full release of all imprisoned activists. you can't put people in jail for expressing their opinions. it's totally unreasonable. i do not know how many times we will have to ask other countries to do the same. however, there are other things in the resolution which i welcome, namely that the united states has suspended arms exports. i think it is very important that we strictly follow the arms export regulations. i would urge the commission to ensure that this happens. we cannot make money off regimes that violate human rights and use our weapons to beat down peaceful people and certainly not that they use our weapons to start wars. i therefore call on the commission to undertake a comprehensive review. i am thinking here of saudi arabia and many other countries in the region. i therefore call on the commission to take control of arms exports - that is what we can do here - and then to strengthen the protection of human rights in bahrain and to ensure that we have a process of reconciliation now in the country and that the wishes of the people can be met in a sustainable way. then bahrain will have a chance to develop in the right direction and not let the arab spring pass into winter.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i congratulate mrs oomen-ruijten on an excellent report. it is a question of whether the report was written to find out how far turkey still has to go to join the eu and to address all the shortcomings in turkey, or whether this report was written to see turkey eventually become a member of the eu. mr president, i think that there needs to be a greater degree of honesty in this debate and that we should say whether we want to see turkey as a member of the eu or not, because then we will actually find ourselves trying to get a different tone from some quarters than i think has been the case here. for my part, i think it is very urgent to work for turkey to become a member. i think turkey is less dependent on the eu than the eu is on turkey. it is clear that the road ahead is quite long, but we must still dare to say whether we want turkey to make it or not. turkey is a great power, and will remain a great power, and can act as a great power.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, tannock. he has created a very broad consensus around this report, and i think that is very important. it is good that the eu member states are now starting accession negotiations with montenegro. it is a strong signal of the eu's commitment to the future of the entire western balkans in the eu. it is also important that the candidate countries are really judged solely on their own merits and on their progress in meeting the accession criteria. the resolution is very clear on this point. montenegro deserves praise for its commitment, its constructive role in contributing to regional stability and good relations with its neighbours, and it has made progress, great progress, tannock has pointed out, in meeting the key priorities set by the commission in the past, but there is still a lot of work to be done. reform will require a strong political will to address tough challenges, in particular those related to the rule of law and the fight against corruption, smuggling and organised crime. there is still a lot to be done there and to really succeed in that will be important for the whole process of accession. but the accession process is not just a matter for governments and parliaments. the whole of society must be transformed, and therefore montenegro must also strengthen its dialogue with civil society, the social partners and trade unions. freedom of the media must be guaranteed. in my amendment to the plenary i call on montenegro to thoroughly investigate the cases of violence and threats against journalists that have occurred and to demonstrate its commitment to a free media. finally, gender equality here there is a lot to be done in terms of seriously addressing the problem that women are severely underrepresented in key positions in montenegro. this too must change. i look forward to welcoming montenegro as a member of the eu once the accession criteria are met. it is also up to us in the eu to do our part, for example by developing the ipa pre-accession programme so that it seriously provides the support that countries like montenegro need to adapt to a future in the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. thank you very much to derek vaughan. he has indeed shown his ability to create broad consensus behind this report in an area which has otherwise often been marked by great controversy. it feels like a new era. it is only a few years since it was almost a given that parliament's budget would expand. we now have a broad consensus on whether the budget freeze is a minimum requirement and whether further savings should be sought until the budgetary process in the autumn, not least for members' own expenditure which has been extremely difficult to discuss at all in the past. it is also gratifying that parliament has adopted our proposal to set up a special independent working group to develop new rational working methods and to compare our models and costs with those of other parliaments. i am absolutely convinced that there is a great potential for rationalization without sacrificing principles such as multilingualism, high quality of legislative work, good working conditions for staff, etc., which are important principles to defend. however, despite this change in attitude to parliament's budget, many people still shy away from what i personally consider to be the biggest and most obvious saving: bringing parliament's activities together in one place. in the committee on budgets we got a clear majority for the amendment tabled last week and i hope we get a clear majority for it in the plenary tomorrow. of course we must try to find solutions for those who lose their jobs, but let us look at it in a practical way. i am absolutely convinced that we can find models to compensate those who will suffer losses if we can concentrate the work of parliament in one place. maintaining the current model is completely unreasonable, both economically, practically and environmentally. it is time to actually start working for such a change.
mr president, i find it remarkable and disturbing that i, as an elected member of this parliament, must rely on the international media to learn about important developments about the acta treaty. this was the case with the commission’s decision to refer the acta treaty to the ecj. according to article 218 of the tfeu, the european parliament is to be kept continuously and fully informed about important developments. i urge the president of this parliament, as well as the conference of presidents, to raise the issue in writing and ask for clarification as to why the commission seems to think it is above the treaties.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i welcome this report and congratulate the rapporteur on a job well done. i particularly appreciate the fact that the report highlights the fact that the eu's nearly 80 million disabled citizens still face obstacles to free movement. free movement is perhaps the greatest achievement of our union and must be extended to all citizens. the report contains many interesting proposals, such as the internet portal for national, regional and local administrations to communicate the professional groups they need. this is in order to increase and promote labour immigration. i also very much appreciate that the amendments that i have signed with many others have been given such a large margin, namely that they encourage member states to guarantee that free movement should apply to all eu citizens and their family members without discrimination on grounds of sexual orientation or nationality. the rights shall apply to heterosexual spouses and to members of the same-sex partners of an eu citizen's household, including same-sex couples. this one particularly pleases me.
madam president, i forgot to sign the attendance register yesterday and would like the minutes to record that i was present. i signed in a group meeting and was then in other places in parliament. could this matter be referred to the relevant service, so that my voters do not think i am lazy? ***
in writing. - i voted for the report. the report introduces certain restrictions and regulates derivatives trading. i believe that much stronger measures are needed. this speculative trade is one of the main causes of the financial crisis. the future of financial markets requires very strict regulation and taxation. but since the report is, after all, a step in the right direction, i choose to vote in favour.
in writing. the european parliament is presenting for the first time proposals which imply cuts in parliament's own, often too costly, expenditure. the proposal to have only one place for the european parliament to meet is particularly positive. but the proposal to freeze the overly generous contributions to the european parliament is also positive. if the european parliament is ever to win the confidence of european citizens, further austerity is required, among many other things, both in the general costs of the european parliament and in the benefits for elected members. that's why i chose to withdraw.
in writing. - i voted for the report. the crisis in the spanish construction sector is mainly due to the failure of the euro and has very little to do with globalisation. the design of the euro resulted in the same interest rate situation throughout the euro area. in spain, as in ireland, interest rates should have been much higher to counteract the overheating of the economies of these countries. instead, the interest rate policy set by the ecb contributed to the creation of housing bubbles in both countries. the bubbles burst when the financial crisis hit. the mass unemployment created in both countries and the construction sector is particularly hard hit. the fundamental problem is thus the functioning of the euro and of financial capitalism. but i do believe that the workers affected must be given all possible support to alleviate their plight. that is why i voted in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted against the report. this is because i do not believe that further institutions and funds are needed to support the development of democracy. the eidhr can fulfil this task through certain rule changes and reforms that simplify the handling of cases. the individual member states can also develop their own democracy assistance. a doubling of this type of assistance by the eu is therefore not necessary.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the context of the directive. it is good that the resolution stresses that eu-turkey relations are mutually beneficial and must be based on mutual commitment. we therefore call on turkey to continue the reform process to achieve concrete results, in particular on violence against women, freedom of expression and judicial guarantees in trials. i particularly welcome the paragraph which protects the rights of minorities. the new turkish constitution under preparation could be a historic opportunity to create a more democratic, open and inclusive society. at the same time, it is important that the eu moves forward with visa liberalisation for turkey. i welcome initiatives to harmonise document requirements to facilitate administrative procedures, but more needs to be done to unlock the situation and build trust. i fully support the commission's positive agenda, which is not an alternative path but an important complement and support to the accession negotiations. the best way to address the problems and reforms in turkey is to engage in a continuous and constructive dialogue for accession negotiations. the lack of clarity on the eu is creating tension and slowing down the reform process in turkey.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. it also clearly states that shareholders are responsible for the appointment of directors and the manner in which this is to be done. these are important principles for us. the report also includes a formulation calling on the commission to come forward with legislative proposals on the quota of women on company boards. we continue to oppose all such demands because we believe it is wrong to reduce people to representatives of a particular group, be it gender, ethnicity, age or anything else, instead of looking at their individual characteristics and qualities.
in writing. - there is still a long way to go in europe for gender equality. it is discouraging that the gender balance in the boards of the largest european companies is still so skewed. but we believe that legislating quotas to force company owners to elect more women to top positions is the wrong way to go. we believe that there are other ways to break down attitudes and structures that hinder women's participation, such as skills development, mentoring and better support for women who want to pursue their careers. more needs to be done to ensure that more women reach top management positions and thus form part of the recruitment base for company boards. we also believe that the imbalance in the eu's own institutions should be addressed before we legislate on the private sector. that is why we voted against amendments nos 1 and 3 to the report on european corporate governance. however, the report contains many other good ideas and ambitions and we have therefore given our support to the report as a whole.
mr president, i would like to thank you. azerbaijan has come a long way in its 20 years of independence. the country has developed a strong and sustainable economy and has successfully used the revenues from energy projects to diversify various economic sectors and continuously upgrade infrastructure. the choice of european integration as the way forward is another positive sign. the eu is and will be ready to assist azerbaijan in its political and socioeconomic reforms. however, it is disappointing that the conflict between armenia and azerbaijan is still not resolved and that no progress is being made in the negotiation process. aggression, occupation and ethnic cleansing are concepts that are alien to our european values and principles and can never be tolerated. i also hear comments in this house and in the debate around it, such as why we in the eu continue to demand the removal of the occupying forces. but if we remove that requirement, we have nothing to negotiate. i was born in the balkans. i've been through war, occupation, ethnic cleansing. i say we should never, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, ever, and ever, and ever, and ever, and ever, and ever and ever, and ever and ever. first the occupying forces must be removed and then we can discuss the possibility of a referendum, the possibility of bringing people together and rebuilding the country and the trust in and to the region. but as long as we tolerate what is not right, the result will eventually be wrong.
in writing. - we, the swedish social democrats in the european parliament, support the report on the role of cohesion policy in the outermost regions of the european union in the context of the europe 2020 strategy, and the important issues to be taken into account that it deals with. however, we do not support the proposal to increase agricultural aid through posei to eu producers in the outermost regions of the union. we believe that eu agricultural aid should be phased out.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy. although there are some negative points, such as criticism of the reduction in the budget for cohesion policy, the positive aspects are overlooked.
in writing. - i voted for the report. it highlights important principles of human rights. i would particularly like to stress that the report criticises the eu's failure to defend human rights consistently and its support for authoritarian regimes. this was very clear, for example, during the democratic revolutions of the arab spring. i am glad that lgbt issues were added and that women's reproductive health and rights were clarified. there are some federalist writings in the report that i do not share. but since the report focuses on human rights and the importance of being consistent, i support it.
the committee on the internal market and consumer protection has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? a common consolidated corporate tax base is an important first step towards improving the competitiveness of european companies and a more efficient internal market. it creates more jobs, reduces business costs and eliminates unnecessary red tape. in the imco opinion we proposed changes to the commission proposal. several of these have been included in the compromise by marianne thyssen, which we welcome. this includes the establishment of a common dispute settlement forum, which was also mentioned by commissioner algirdas šemeta. in the committee's opinion we also stated that the introduction of a common consolidated corporate tax base should be voluntary. competitive tax systems and institutional competition are valuable. the system should not become mandatory until practical experience of its operation has been gained. i think that more companies than the so-called european companies would be willing to participate if the system were voluntary. it is therefore unfortunate that the compromise already involves the gradual introduction of a compulsory system. this will make it more difficult to get more member states to participate. better the carrot than the whip!
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the energy tax directive is obsolete. it needs to be modernised and improved in order to function in an efficient and balanced way. the tax regime must be adapted to the ambitious increases in energy and environmental policy that have taken place since the adoption of the directive in 2003. the regulatory framework needs to be adapted to new conditions on the energy market. in particular, the discrimination against renewable fuels must end. these fuels must be given the same conditions as fossil fuels if development is to be sustainable. in addition, energy taxation needs to be coordinated with emissions trading. an ambitious revision of the directive is a necessary element of a credible energy and environment policy. without revisions, we will hardly be able to meet the eu 2020 target. without revision, we are not taking responsibility for future generations either. the outcome of the econ committee's deliberations is good. the econ report preserves the main lines of the commission's logical and well-developed proposal. the most controversial point, the principle of neutrality, requires member states to ensure that all fuels used for the same purpose are taxed in the same way. it is a great way to create fair and predictable conditions of competition. all fuels are given the same chance in a volatile energy market. this type of solid rules of the game is crucial to fostering technological development, growth and job creation. in the short term, the principle of neutrality could create problems for the automotive industry. the econ report has resolved this by a long phasing-in period until 2025 for this sector. if the principle would create fiscal imbalances, the commission may propose compensatory changes to other vehicle-related taxation. in my view, this is a model that is both rational and workable. tomorrow's vote is about the credibility of energy policy. we cannot build a sustainable economy without a modern system of energy taxation. i would also like to thank astrid lulling. we've had a good working relationship, even though we've had a few differences of opinion.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the climate policy objectives we have are not castles in the air. they are legally binding on the member states and they are clear. we have decided to reduce our greenhouse gas emissions by 20 percent by 2020. today's decision is about how we do that. all the research shows that a price on carbon dioxide provides cost-effective emissions reductions. the price of carbon dioxide is driving technological progress and the necessary social transformation. every member who voted for our climate objectives should therefore support the principles of the energy tax directive, and vice versa: anyone who rejects this directive also rejects the objectives and structure of climate policy. without this directive we will continue to live with rules that tax biofuels more heavily than fossil fuels, that do not provide cost-effective emission reductions and that risk double taxation due to the poor coordination of the emissions trading system. the proposal we have received from the econ committee is not as ambitious as it could be, but it retains the key elements of the commission's proposal for a new energy tax directive. there are livery belts and hammocks and airbags in this proposal for a gentle change in the energy tax structure. this is now just a consultation with parliament. the council decides by unanimity and what we say here has no formal significance. nevertheless, tomorrow's vote is crucial, because it is about the credibility of decisions we have already taken on environmental and climate policy. i think it is time for the european parliament to take up its responsibilities. tomorrow we have the chance to show that we are not afraid to vote when the content of the decisions is equal to zero!
mr president, the main problem, if you take a global perspective, is not the use of energy as such but emissions as regards their effect on the climate and the environment. we know that some energy fuels or sources produce lower emissions: renewables, bio-fuels, nuclear power, and that some emit more: gas, oil and coal. the problem is, of course, that if we tax the energy more than the emissions, we are creating a situation where we are hindering the emergence of competitive new renewable energy resources. the problem is that if we do not tax the environmental consequences, we get a situation – as has been mentioned in this debate – where diesel, for example, becomes more expensive than petrol. that is, of course, a problem for those who use diesel cars. but the main problem is that we have a system of taxation that is hindering the best energy sources while supporting the old energy sources. that is the problem with this proposal: it is not doing these things straight by supporting the emergence of new energy sources.
madam president, during this very interesting debate this morning, i have not heard, coming out of the wave of criticism, a single alternative proposal that could be pursued. international agreements are all about compromises. that is the nature of an agreement. you dance with each other. what is the alternative being offered to the citizens of europe? not to travel to the united states? that is the only alternative being offered. that means depriving them of their freedom. let us have a minimum of realism in this debate. no, it is not an ideal agreement. fine, but what else is there? the united states authorities can collect data in their country. it is their country that people are travelling to. would we prefer them to have secret bilateral agreements with member states? would we want them to take away visa-free travel and suspend it? they could do that. this agreement is a great improvement over that of 2007. it is a significant step forward in providing data protection to our citizens. my vote is for protection, safeguards and freedom and security for the citizens of europe.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. president. - the debate is closed. as rapporteur, i am proud of the progress made together with the council and the commission in adopting the new legislation on trafficking in human beings. the directive has a holistic approach, focusing on both prevention and prosecution of traffickers. it is now more than a year since the directive was adopted and i am pleased to hear from both the commission and the council here today about its implementation. a few weeks ago i was at a seminar with the eu's anti-trafficking coordinator. she said that the latest available statistics from the member states show that a clear majority, over 70 per cent, of trafficking victims are women who have been victims of sex slavery. although this is confirmed by a number of other studies, i feel that there is resistance to talking about this fact. instead of discussing sex slavery, which according to all available statistics accounts for the majority of the cases, there is a tendency to focus on exploitation in other sectors. this is deeply unfortunate as we will never get to human trafficking unless we have the courage to speak openly about all its causes. a very important part of the directive is precisely about working against demand and against the very profitability of trafficking in human beings. article 18 requires member states not only to act against trafficking in human beings but also to take appropriate measures to counter and reduce the demand underlying all forms of exploitation related to trafficking in human beings. this includes reviewing the liability of purchasers, regardless of the type of slavery they are paying for. it is therefore particularly interesting to see how the council and the commission view this in the light of the legislation. i look forward to the evaluation that will eventually come!
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. the most common form of trafficking is, of course, that of women and girls who are exploited sexually. so i'm going to focus on that. women and girls are being tricked and coaxed into a world of exploitation and cruelty. since the demand for women to be bought is greater than the number of prostitutes in europe, these women are recruited from other parts of the world to be bought and sold again and again. this is cynical, unworthy, colonial and even racist. we must have the courage to make decisions that question this. sex is not okay. as a man, i reject the right of men to buy women's bodies. as a politician, i say we must have the courage to take decisions that will truly abolish trafficking in women. of course, many important measures are needed, such as extending support to victims of trafficking in human beings, strengthening their rights, giving victims of trafficking in human beings the right to reside in the country where they are exploited. at the same time, we must always remember that without demand for women's bodies, there is no trafficking in women and girls. it means the real problem is with the sex buyers. i believe that we must go all the way in that chain in order to be able to restrict trade, that is to say, to be able to ban sex buying as well. it has proved to be an effective measure in norway, sweden and iceland. because it's not the women in prostitution who should be punished, it's the men who should be put in the spotlight. to sum up: combating trafficking in human beings in the eu is largely about combating trafficking in women and girls. to make that fight effective, it takes political courage to fight demand. such a policy would be much more effective than the current focus on biometric identification, passenger data and enhanced border controls.
madam president, i welcome commissioner malmström’s genuine commitment to fighting trafficking, along with all the measures that the commission has implemented already. now is the time for all the member states to do the same and implement fully, swiftly and effectively the directive that was adopted a year ago. but there is more to be done, because the figures are stunning and the stories are heartbreaking. the issue is the millions of women, children and men who live as slaves in our neighbourhoods. there is a need for a cultural paradigm shift, and the time of impunity has to come to an end. the culture of impunity, of abuse, cheating and oppression, has to be replaced by a culture which criminalises trafficking. all the perpetrators should hear our voice. they will not feel immune anywhere, in any corner of europe. we have to join forces on this, not only by better training police forces and taking into account children’s and women’s special needs as well as victim protection, but also by adding some prevention. we need to do more than just persecute; we must also really improve cooperation and have stronger sanctions. this may be a challenge for a criminal system, but we need to see adults and children freed and perpetrators in prison.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. however, we do not support the type of allocation key discussed in the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of consumers. the positive elements of the text of the resolution, which point to the serious consequences of tax evasion and tax fraud, outweigh the negative.
president of the council. mr president, i should like to begin by thanking you for the debate here today and then to stress that i too support as much transparency as possible on this point. we all need to make informed decisions and, as i said in my introduction, the presidency has called on several member states to reconsider their position so that they give the necessary authorizations. transparency in the process is essential and i can say that we as the presidency will do everything in our power to ensure that.
writer. - mr president! - what is it? most of us have probably shopped for small potatoes, free-range carrots or zero-mile cheese at the local dairy. many choose locally produced foods because they believe they are healthier and better for the environment. but what exactly is locally produced? we have no common interpretation or common criteria. is it the distance within the national boundary? if a school in southern sweden buys potatoes from denmark 20 kilometers away, is it locally produced? or if the same school is operating in sweden, but 2,000 kilometers away? we need established production methods. do all the ingredients have to be local? today, everyone has his own opinion and there is a great risk of confusion and misdirection on the part of consumers. many consumers are willing to pay more for locally produced food, but does such food always add value in terms of nutrition and quality? for example, many people think they are buying climate-smart when they choose meat that is locally produced. transport is a burden on the environment, but we know that in the case of meat, the production method is actually more important. it cannot be taken for granted that locally produced and grown produce is always better for the environment. my colleagues! we have a responsibility to raise the debate on the basis of facts and, with the help of the commission, to draw up guidelines for the concept of locally produced. we're going to put a spotlight on good food for our children, the elderly and the sick. we will promote the conditions for small businesses and a vibrant countryside, while safeguarding an open and common market and avoiding unhealthy food protectionism. the question is particularly relevant at the moment when we are reviewing the rules on public procurement. what would it mean if everyone in the eu asked for specific rules for procuring locally? mr president, i would like to thank you. the challenge is to create balanced rules that allow for local procurement without undermining free trade and fair competition. that is why i have taken this initiative and asked the commission to clarify what is meant by the concept of 'locally produced' food.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur on the work he has done on this opinion. it is an important opinion and my speech will also demonstrate the consensus that exists on these issues, both within parliament and between the various european institutions. women generally have less access to resources, political power and education and are therefore less well placed. in addition, women and children are more affected by the negative consequences of climate change. three quarters of the world's refugees are women and children. improving the current situation requires a combination of small and large measures, all of which are needed. without a holistic perspective, we miss out on good ideas and important pieces of the puzzle. it has been shown that women have a more sustainable consumption and are more likely to act climate friendly than we men. women can be the key and driving force in developing new and climate-smart everyday innovations for increased energy and water efficiency. together, we make a difference through responsible and sustainable use of resources in every household and every workplace. the eu and europe must be at the forefront of harnessing the ideas, creativity and innovation of both women and men to best meet our climate challenges. the combination of women and men is a powerful agent of change and broad participation and is one of the conditions for guaranteeing more equitable and more inclusive strategies. as several of my colleagues have also mentioned, it is therefore important to increase the representation of women in political bodies, for example, which can influence these conditions, for example in the climate negotiations.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would first like to warmly thank nicole kiil-nielsen for her outstanding work and for her cooperation in the report. in fact, this report is historic in that, to my knowledge, it is the first time that parliament has addressed climate issues from a gender perspective. the report makes it quite clear that climate change is not gender neutral. for example, men contribute more than women to climate change, but it is women who are most affected. people's lifestyle patterns simply leave a larger ecological footprint. women are therefore more sustainable consumers, but also seem to be more willing than men to take action to preserve the environment. it is important that the report highlights the concept of climate justice, because today's injustices would be even greater if we do not tackle climate change. it would affect poor countries in general and women in particular. the millennium development goals are therefore under threat because of man's environmental degradation. it is also clear that the male quota that permeates all of society today is also present in climate change. i therefore support the report's proposals for targeted measures such as quotas to increase the representation of women at all levels of decision-making. the eu and its member states must lead by example and do much better in this area. women are key actors in the fight against climate change. several good examples show that training women saves lives in disaster management, increases biodiversity, prevents desertification and protects forests. i would like to say, in the spirit of the commission representative, that when women take part in climate action, their position in society is often strengthened. this in turn leads to increased democracy and the promotion of human rights.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this report shows how women and men are differently responsible for the climate change that is occurring, and that we have different access to our common resources and are affected differently by climate change. knowing this is essential if we are to change behaviors and attitudes and change the world. that is what most of us in the european parliament want, although perhaps not everyone is on the same page. these values and skills need to be shared in the eu and elsewhere in the world. we are negotiating trade and environmental agreements, and the gender aspect must be included. i would like to thank nicole kiil-nielsen for this report on climate policy. it takes a slightly different approach than the usual. this is good because most of us are aware that political solutions are more effective if we have knowledge and awareness of both class and gender perspectives. this also applies to climate policy. if our climate policy, which we decide on here by a large majority, is to become reality and not just empty words on paper, we need reports to guide us in the way this report can. thank you again for this work.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the 10-year environment action programme has contributed to a greater focus on the link between the environment and health. this in turn has contributed to extensive legislation on chemicals, pesticides and water. we can be proud of that, but we can't be satisfied. firstly, we must continue to ensure that there is better coherence between the formulation of environmental policy and its implementation. there have been clear shortcomings in the monitoring and inspections of the effective implementation and enforcement of environmental legislation in the member states. secondly, and very importantly, we must dare to move forward. i therefore hope for an ambitious seventh programme, despite the economic crisis. or perhaps it is precisely because we need high environmental ambitions for economic reasons too. they can be a lever for jobs and sustainable growth. environmental aspects must therefore be integrated into all relevant policy areas, and there are many of them. for example, efforts to eliminate environmentally harmful subsidies must continue. more sustainable land use would reduce the pressure on ecosystems and the services they provide. internationally, the eu should also strengthen its potential with strict environmental standards and environmental skills and products. environmental issues are simply no match for all the so-called mainstream politics. environmental policy is the leaven in the dough. the new environmental action programme must show that this is indeed the case.
in writing. − although i agree with the essence and majority of the text of the leinen report ‘review of the 6th environment action programme and the setting of priorities for the 7th environment action programme’, i strongly believe that competences in tax matters should remain with the member states. therefore i voted against §65, which takes the view that the 7th eap should address fiscal reform measures to enhance member states’ activities on shifting taxes from labour to natural resources and pollutants.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i will vote in favour of this regulation, but i will do so with no enthusiasm at all because i see this as a missed opportunity. now, i've talked about this issue and we've all agreed and used the right words. we have said that data roaming is something that is really damaging to the internal market and damaging to consumers. we have also said that this is something we have to regulate, which is a pity if you do not like regulation. we've all been in complete agreement on this, so we've all used the right words, but when we got to the numbers, it was the wrong numbers. from 2014 the ceiling will be 20 cents per megabyte for data roaming. that may not sound like much per megabyte, but that's 200 euros per gigabyte. if we compare that with the national prices of any country, we see that the robbery of consumers continues. unfortunately, we're going to need the roaming 4 that paul rübig mentioned earlier. this is a step in the right direction, but it is too little and it is too slow.
madam president, i would like to thank you. today's vote, or today's decision, will mean that we drastically reduce the cost of mobile surfing, calling and texting. it will be felt in the wallets of consumers and travellers and it will be felt as early as july this year, when costs will fall by 35 per cent. next year, costs will fall by another number of percentage points, and in 2014, 65 percent of costs will be gone. the price of data is also falling substantially, and all this is clear evidence that policy can play a role: the market cannot decide, the market must not be able to charge excess prices. in a borderless single market, however, there is really no reason why calling between countries should be more expensive than calling within countries. we now have a guarantee that the commission will come back with a strong legislative proposal for a fully integrated telecoms market if not enough improvements have been made in 2016. so we're prepared to go further to make sure that people don't pay more than they actually need to.
madam president, i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work she has done and all her efforts. i think one of the important achievements in this report is the fact that now, from 2014, we will be able to have what is called ‘local breakout’, meaning that we have a real structural reform changing the logic of the telecom markets in regard to internet surfing and all those things that are more and more important today. for me it is still a paradox that in this most modern and dynamic market, the telecoms market, we still have 27 different national markets in the european union where, in reality, we should have just one market able to form the basis for our global leadership. we can discuss different price caps and we can discuss different ways of regulating how things are today, but the important thing is that, if we are opening the door for one european market in the european union, with this local breakout it will be possible for all of us to connect to the internet when we are abroad in the european union without, so to speak, phoning back home and paying these very expensive costs. we will be able to do this as we do with wi-fi. so when the danish presidency or other presidencies come here to brussels or strasbourg they will not have to get connected. we are the home country. they will be able to use the best possible offer in the country where we are and that will be the case not just for the presidencies, it will be the case for all citizens in europe. i think this achievement will also mean that we will be able to use all the opportunities that we are opening up today on the internet for all mobile data traffic and that this will lay the ground for a more competitive europe, but also a more connected europe.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i had the honour last november of leading the delegation from the libé committee to sicily and lampedusa to visit and inspect the centres receiving asylum seekers. before and after the visit we asked the italian authorities to provide us with information. that information has been extremely inadequate, if not completely omitted. information and facts on migration flows are important to understand events in 2011 and to ensure that the mistakes that have occurred are not repeated in the future. ngos have told us that the italian authorities under the previous government did not deal with the situation on lampedusa in a particularly humane way. the reception units for migrants on lampedusa were for a long time extremely overcrowded. people slept in the open throughout the island while transports from lampedusa to sicily were delayed and delayed for no reason. this led to tensions and riots, culminating in the burning of several migrant buildings and the decision by the authorities to declare lampedusa a port of no safety for migrants - not for fishermen and not for tourists, but for migrants. we now need to have detailed information about what really happened and i appeal to the italian authorities and the government to come back to parliament with this important information and to declare lampedusa a safe port immediately for all those people who need a safe port after having travelled in the mediterranean. because we cannot accept that more people's lives are at stake. we cannot accept deaths in the mediterranean while we're sitting here discussing it. now we must ensure that all member states take their responsibility and guarantee the safety of people's lives. i would like to thank you for your time and to reiterate that parliament is taking its responsibility and that it is now italy's turn to take its responsibility.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to begin by thanking my former colleague, diana wallis, who worked on this issue until she left parliament and i took over. it has been a very interesting and educational process to get into this issue and i would like to begin by thanking all the shadow rapporteurs for their constructive cooperation and willingness to really tackle this problem, and for all their contributions, comments and amendments. we are now there and we have a solution that we can all support and we voted unanimously in committee on this. why is it so important? yes, because international dialects are a reality throughout our member states. today we celebrate europe day and we rejoice in a europe that is growing ever closer together. our citizens move between countries, they have friends, acquaintances and family members from other member states. the integration of europe is something we all warmly welcome. but in keeping with the spirit of the times in which we find ourselves, more and more media outlets are willing to report on people and events in other countries. media is also consumed by people who live outside the country in which they were born and where they live and whose language they speak. it is therefore not unreasonable to assume that the number of civil actions involving parties in different member states may increase, and even increase to a considerable extent, and when this happens, a dispute arises as to which country's legislation should apply. to ensure that these international legal processes are handled in the best possible way, an amendment to the current rome ii regulation is needed and that is why we are discussing and debating this today. to this is added the possibility of so-called forum shopping, where parties try to direct their lawsuits to a particular country which has a particularly favourable legislation from their point of view, and this is of course not good. we're trying to limit this forum shopping in every jurisdiction. when the rome ii regulation was last negotiated in 2005, there was broad agreement in parliament on how these issues should be dealt with. unfortunately, the council was not able to reach a complete solution at that time, and the question has since then been hanging in the air and unresolved. we now feel that it is high time that we clarified this matter so that all concerned know what is going on. in the course of my work, predictability has been an unconditional requirement for me, because it is an absolute foundation of a modern legal system and a society of law. you gotta know what's going on. in the committee on legal affairs we have therefore taken parliament's 2005 position as a basis and made a number of necessary modifications. we now establish a clear basic rule that it must be the country where the plaintiff is domiciled and where a newspaper, tv channel or radio station or the like is targeted with its language and that is the country whose laws are to be used. if this is difficult to determine, the country of the seat of the editorial board shall be used. it is not reasonable for our journalists and responsible publishers to know the language laws of all countries before deciding whether to publish, adopting this can lead to self-censorship. everyone should know the rules of the game and the laws that apply, and it is important that this principle be upheld. within the framework of our common rules on fundamental rights and freedoms, it is then up to each member state to find the right balance between these rights. i hope now that the commission is prepared to take up the legislative proposals we have put forward and i hope we will be back shortly. i look forward to and welcome a message perhaps even during our discussion here tonight. thank you very much for this, mr president!
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? my colleagues and dear commissioner. thank you for an interesting but brief discussion here in plenary. given the drama that has surrounded this report over the years, i would have expected a much more lively debate, but as i said, the report was adopted unanimously in committee and i really hope that it will also receive a great deal of support tomorrow. it is, as someone said, a matter of bridging the gap and finding the right balance between, on the one hand, freedom of the media and a fundamental freedom of expression and, on the other, the right of the individual to privacy and the rule of law. i welcome the commission's interest and i expect you, mr de gucht, to speak to viviane reding about this. i look forward to her returning to parliament with concrete proposals very soon, and there are some, so it should not take much work on the part of the commission to get us back to a proposal that we can certainly adopt. i trust this and look forward to the next proposal. it is good for our citizens to be able to say on this european day that we now want to fill the vacuum that has existed so that the free movement of persons and the legal security of citizens can be exploited again also from this point of view. i would like to thank you for your time and look forward to the vote in plenary tomorrow. thank you, thank you!
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i can usually start my plenary speeches by thanking my colleagues for the good cooperation, but unfortunately i cannot do that this time because it has been very bad cooperation. although i understand that the work on this resolution has been going on for a long time, over a year, alde has not been involved in the process until now at the very last moment. when we have important european challenges ahead of us, i think it is important that we are open in the debate and in the way we work, because we need unanimity in parliament on strategies for growth in europe beyond the economic crisis. when we finally got the text of the resolution just a few days ago, it is as obvious as it is regrettable that we will not be able to support this proposal. we have not been allowed to study it in detail, we have not been involved in the process and we have therefore chosen to withdraw. but in order to allow for further discussion, we will be proposing tomorrow to postpone the vote until the next partsession. if we vote tomorrow, we will vote against the resolution. we will also vote against the two amendments concerning embryonic stem cells. the fact that embryonic stem cells are being mixed up in a resolution on intellectual property rights for plant breeding and processing is, to put it mildly, strange, and i wonder where the intellectual clarity in this process has gone. what we are seeing today is an unbalanced resolution which seeks to interpret various decisions of the european patent office in order to win its own political points. it has been negotiated without the knowledge of our group, alde. it contains pure factual errors, for example in paragraph 7 where it is claimed that there is a wide-ranging exception for breeders and breeders in the eu in the area of plant breeding and animal husbandry. this is wrong. it exists in some countries, for example in germany, but certainly not at european level. this should be corrected and we therefore propose to postpone the vote on the motion for a resolution. alde will not be supporting this resolution, but thank you for the floor.
rapporteur. − madam president, i will speak english. normally i speak swedish in plenary, but i did all the rest of the work in english and when i tried to prepare the swedish, i realised that some of the words would be easier – this once – in english, because i had used them during the whole process. after an extensive process in committee, the report on discharge for the commission for the financial year 2010 has now arrived in plenary. first of all, i would like to express my gratitude to both the european court of auditors and the european commission for their very fruitful and professional cooperation during this process. i would also like to take this opportunity to thank the opinion-giving committees for their input. discharge is one of the main prerogatives of the european parliament, and it is important that we all try to take part in it in one way or another. let me turn to the most important question of any discharge procedure: whether or not to grant discharge. as you can see in the report adopted in the committee, which followed my recommendation to grant discharge to the commission for the financial year 2010, this was not an easy decision. we know that this is the 17th year that the commission has not received a clean bill from the court, and we can even see some small increases in error rates in certain areas. the reason we came to conclusion we did is that we got adequate responses from the commission to the four priority actions that the commission needs to address in the upcoming months. specifically, the following four points for action will be addressed by the commission and i hope it will confirm this today: firstly, financial engineering instruments; secondly, the commission’s accountability instruments; thirdly, pre-financing; and, fourthly, the commission’s supervisory role in the cohesion area. we want action in all of these areas in exchange for discharge. the financial engineering instruments kept us busy for most of the time. the court of auditors found severe weaknesses in the implementation of these instruments, especially in the area of cohesion. as you all are aware, the commission proposed using those instruments even more often in the future, which is why we invested a lot of effort in thinking about how we could correct the weaknesses detected. the commission is now being asked, in particular, to objectively and critically evaluate the use of those instruments and report back, and to assess the specific risks attached to the use of these instruments. some people make it sound like these instruments are some kind of alchemy that create gold out of nothing, but we see risk and we see costs, and we want them to be evaluated so that we know exactly what consequences they will have. the second point i mentioned concerns how the commission assumes its financial responsibility for implementing the eu budget. at the centre of that question is the annual activity report and the synthesis report. we need these to be improved and we need them to actually show more than they hide. as a result of our deliberations, the committee required that the commission deliver a political declaration in which it accepts its final and overall responsibility for the implementation of the budget, including the part which is implemented under shared management. we also need the commission to strengthen its annual activity report and for the signature of the commissioner responsible to be added next to that of the director-general, to show that the commission assumes responsibility. we also want the commission to analyse whether the commission’s own corporate governance arrangements could be further improved, for example by taking on some of the obligations it lays down on others in its green paper on eu corporate governance.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i shall focus solely on the report on the discharge of the european institute for gender equality (eige). as you all know, eige meets all the requirements of a sound economy and fulfils its commitments as mandated. unfortunately, paragraph 3 of the committee's proposal has been smuggled in with a sentence proposing a merger of the eige and the european union agency for fundamental rights (fra). this is a very strange proposal, considering that the eige was set up only a few years ago, after more than 10 years of pressure from this parliament. while there are of course points of contact with the fra, there are also many differences between them. eige focuses exclusively on gender and the structures and policies that can make us more effective in the area of gender equality. it is about the labour market, social security, decision-making and reconciling work and family life. the european parliament places gender equality high on the agenda even when member states sometimes lack vision and ideas. we therefore need a full-fledged institute that is a resource and carries out background guidance and follow-up in this important policy area. therefore, paragraph 3 should be deleted.
mr president, i would like to thank you. europe is facing serious economic and political problems. there is no excuse for the carelessness of public funds, and the error rate in the budget is unacceptably high. but we know that the commission is not responsible for all the mistakes it makes. the member states bear the main responsibility and the major shortcomings in the way the money has been spent at national level, as mentioned earlier, are unacceptable. the politicians in charge in these member states must answer for these mistakes - tory or not tory, labour or not labour. and it is not enough to point the finger at brussels and the eu when the negligence is in its own management. a number of member states have also refused to publish their annual reports on eu funds. why this filth? commissioner, you promised today that all reports would be made available. it's good and it's long overdue, but i think it's coming late. we should have more time to read these reports and make a thorough analysis. i therefore think that we should postpone the discharge decision for the commission so that we have time to go through all the facts. i think that is a reasonable demand, and in view of what my colleagues in my group have said before, i think that more people should be able to support it. finally, i would also like to comment on the discharge for the european development fund. the problem is that the edf is still outside the eu budget. the edf must become part of the normal budgetary control process.
president of the court of auditors. - mr president, i take this opportunity to thank the members of this house for their words of appreciation for the court of auditors and its work. the granting of discharge is a privilege of the european parliament. we have heard today calls for better supervision of work, better feedback, better financial management, greater simplification, stronger accountability mechanisms and transparency. i think it is also an opportunity for all the institutions to review the regulatory and implementation framework for the next programming period. we need clearer and simpler rules and objectives which really make sense in themselves, in order to create added value for the european union. the evolution of the union's economic governance also raises new questions, particularly as regards the accountability mechanism. the european stability mechanism is part of this development. i am pleased to announce that an audit committee of independent auditors has been set up and will report to parliament. i also heard calls for the court of auditors to submit its report on conflicts of interest in the agencies as soon as possible. i have already written to this institution several times: be assured that you will receive this report. but let us allow ourselves time to do it well and to conduct a contradictory procedure with the agencies concerned, so that it can bring real added value to your debates for other reasons.
member of the commission. − mr president, i would like to thank all the members who participated in this fruitful debate. your contributions demonstrate the will of the discharge authority to contribute to more effective budget execution, aiming not only to meet policy objectives but also to ensure that financial support reaches those who need it most. this is a question of effectiveness, fairness and justice. moreover, the european budget is the most concrete expression of the solidarity among european people and, therefore, it deserves the utmost care and commitment on the part of those managing and controlling it. improving the eu’s financial governance is a demanding task involving many stakeholders and financial actors. at the forefront are the citizens of europe and the benefits they derive from eu-financed projects and programmes. their interests and the protection of eu taxpayers’ money are the main drivers for our ambitions and our efforts to improve the financial management of the eu budget. next, we have the financial actors. the commission is fully committed to endorsing its final responsibility regarding implementation of the budget. but the effective involvement of all financial actors, without exception, and their commitment to value for money and sound financial management are instrumental to further reducing the risk of errors. in this respect, more effort is needed, in particular on the effectiveness of control and management systems, but also on the transparency and accountability of the european and national authorities in charge of ensuring optimal use of eu money. that is why the commission will endeavour to keep this parliament, as discharge authority, fully informed of the execution of the european budget. it will therefore continue to provide the necessary information in the accounts and via the various reports announced during the hearings of the commissioners responsible. moreover, the member states’ annual summaries, accompanied by an analysis and guidelines, will be transmitted in a user-friendly manner to the committee on budgetary control in accordance with the provisions of article 319 of the treaty. several concrete questions were raised during this debate, and i would like to reply to them. ms ivanova raised the issue of outstanding commitments, and i can only agree that the outstanding commitments need to be substantially reduced. therefore the commission has proposed an appropriate level of payments for the 2013 budget. then mr van de camp raised the issue of external funds in relation to the schengen information system (sis i and sis ii). you will know that many difficulties were encountered in the past in the development of this system. it is now operational and the commission is carefully monitoring it to ensure it functions in an effective and reliable manner. the commission is ready to report on it if requested to do so. with regard to the funds for external borders, the commission can execute the allocated budget when we receive claims from the member states. i will pass your concerns on to my fellow commissioner in charge of this matter. several of you, namely mr berman, ms hohlmeier, mr schmidt and ms jäätteenmäki, raised the issue of the status of the european development fund (edf). in the financial framework for 2014-2020 the commission has proposed keeping the same setting, i.e. outside the union budget, but it has also made a clear commitment to assess all other options for the financial period post-2020. there were, of course, many points made about the agencies, and i would like to say a few words regarding the food safety agency, in response to mr bové. the commission regrets the appointment of ms diána bánáti as an executive director of the international life of science institute, as that position is clearly incompatible with her role at the eu food safety agency. the commission will decide with the council on the next steps to be taken to replace ms bánáti. for the future, i want to inform you that the interinstitutional working group on traditional agencies, in which parliament is participating, has addressed the need to develop a consistent policy on preventing conflicts of interest for staff, advisers, experts and board members. this work has to be done in the working group and i hope it will produce an appropriate solution. to conclude, i want to assure you that the commission will address all other measures and actions included in the discharge resolution to be adopted today. many of these measures have already been proposed in the review of the financial regulation and in the legal bases for the next financial framework. the commission will also invite all the other parties actively concerned to join our efforts and to share our objective of further improving the execution of the eu budget.
president of the council. - mr president, i have to say something. i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply. i would like to conclude by saying that it has been exciting, interesting and important to listen to the many speeches by members of parliament. i hope that our two institutions can soon reach a viable agreement on a modernised discharge procedure. it is high time that we worked together to find a solution. as i mentioned in my introductory remarks, back in march 2011 the council put forward a proposal for a 'memorandum of understanding' for cooperation between parliament and the council during the annual discharge procedure. this memorandum contains concrete proposals on how we can exchange the necessary information and documents in a way that respects the respective roles of our institutions in the procedure. let me therefore state today that the council's proposal is not an ultimatum. it is clear that we must start negotiations between our institutions to reach an agreement, and i hope therefore that parliament will soon be able to set up a negotiating delegation so that we can get to work. we must all be aware of our responsibilities and do our part to find a solution. we owe this, not least to the european taxpayers, who are entitled to the fact that we must find together an efficient and sustainable way of controlling the expenditure of our institutions. mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i would like to thank you for your reply. this is not the time for institutional battles, but for cooperation and for showing our citizens that we can compromise and deliver. i hope therefore that we will be able to sit down together at the negotiating table very soon.
rapporteur. − mr president, i am sorry that i could not be here for the whole debate. i am very happy that the danish presidency is here – they are in other places as well having trialogues – but i have followed the debate extensively. the problem here is shared management, and shared management is exactly the same as it was when i was a kid and my sister and i had the shared responsibility of cleaning the house. nobody cleaned the house and then we stood there blaming each other. the problem is not all over the place. it is in structural funds and in all member states. 60% of the errors come from three member states: 31% from spain, 18% from italy and 10% from the uk. 58% of the errors could have been corrected by member states, according to the court of auditors. i think it is high time that the council debates this amongst themselves; it is your taxpayers, it is your money. that does not mean that the commission is without responsibility. they have the responsibility to control and sanction those who do not play by the rules. i ask myself: does the commission not have the tools to do that? or do you not use the tools that you have? my response has been that it is a combination. you lack some tools, but you do not use the tools which you have effectively enough. therefore, we have a responsibility in the upcoming programming period to give you the tools which you need now when we are co-legislators. that goes for the council as well. but we demand of you, as a part of this discharge procedure, to use the tools you have more effectively. the reason that i decided to propose to grant discharge is because i heard your sincere wish to change the way you work with sanctions, suspensions and interruptions and that is the reason we give you discharge. if, next year, we do not see any change, then it is a whole new deal. however, i think that we are on the right track and i am happy that you have been listening to the recommendations we have given in our resolution. i think that it is a good basis for improving the situation for next year.
in writing. − the european parliament recently voted in favour of an own-initiative report on the future of regional airports and air services in the eu (2011/2196 (ini)). i personally voted against the report. the report highlighted the many positive aspects of regional airports. however, instead of helping these regional airports, which are often served by low-cost carriers, measures were proposed that severely restrict the competitiveness of these carriers. a number of regulations on hand luggage, charges for voluntary payment by credit card, the possibility of employing staff through staffing companies, are cutting off the legs of many low-cost companies (paragraphs 42-45 of the report).
in writing. − for the first time since 2006, the annual report of the european court of auditors showed an increase in the proportion of errors committed in the implementation of the eu budget from 3,3% (in 2009) to 3,7%. this increase is extremely worrying and must not be allowed to recur. the european commission is ultimately responsible for the use of eu money. however, the court's criticism is not directed primarily at the commission but at the member states. for about 80% of eu expenditure, the management of the money is shared between the commission and the member states, and the member states are responsible for the payments. it is also in these areas of expenditure that the error rate increased most in 2010. we therefore believe that the commission should be given a discharge and that the member states should instead discuss in the council measures to correct these errors.
in writing. − we consider it unacceptable that not all member states' annual summaries were made available as part of the budgetary control process for the commission's 2010 budget. it is contrary to the existing interinstitutional agreement and does not contribute to an open and transparent eu or to the enhancement of trust in the union's institutions among eu citizens. that is why we had originally intended to vote in favour of postponing the discharge decision for the commission's 2010 budget. the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances in the production of certain products. we welcome the announcement but at the same time we want to stress that this is a decision that should have come much earlier in the process. the promised publication comes too late for us to support a discharge for the commission. we therefore choose to abstain from voting on this item.
in writing. - when the eu demands budgetary restraint and thrift from the member states, it is not credible to allow millions of euros to go to the moving carousel between brussels and strasbourg. that is why i voted for the discharge for the implementation of parliament's 2010 budget and for the resolution in general, but also for the texts which point out the unreasonableness of the situation. it is also important to point out that in the case of the moving carousel, it is not parliament that is blocking. the decision rests with the council and the representatives of the individual member states.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. it is therefore of the utmost importance that the eu authorities and their activities are scrutinised by the european court of auditors and by the european parliament through the discharge process. however, we believe that the rapporteur's approach is too critical and too focused on details rather than on the overall and important issues of implementing the decisions taken at european level. we support the authorities as they can help us to make our food safer, our environment cleaner and our planes and flights safer. the rapporteur's criticism also concerns in large part situations which have already been addressed and situations which the authorities themselves have no control over. it is important to safeguard the independence of the authorities, but when the authority cannot do more than what has already been done in individual cases, it is wrong to take these as revenue for not granting a discharge. we consider that the correction and follow-up of any errors is sufficient and that the authorities should therefore be granted a discharge.
in writing. − one of the areas where eu cooperation has the potential to create clear added value for the member states and all their citizens is research cooperation. expensive and resource-intensive projects that are difficult and costly for individual states to implement become cheaper for the member state and feasible if cooperation is at european level. that is why i voted in favour of the resolution which gives discharge to the implementation, financial management and control of the eu authorities in general, but i opposed the proposals which seek to reduce or cut specifically research in european cooperation.
in writing. the rapporteur has done a good job of highlighting important aspects of the work and governance of the european medicines agency (ema) and the european environment agency (eea) respectively. however, as regards the rapporteur's criticism of possible conflicts of interest, we consider that the ema and the eea have provided adequate answers to the european parliament's questions. we therefore support the liberal group's proposal to grant discharge to both of these european authorities.
in writing. − the margin of error for the use of eu funds in the cohesion fund and the energy/transport funds increased by 7.7% in 2010. this was largely due to shortcomings in the public procurement procedure. common funds that are not used for their intended purpose are a problem. in the management of common funds, the eu institutions themselves must set a good example, especially today, in the light of what economic mismanagement has led to in large parts of europe. that is why i voted in favour of postponing the discharge for the implementation of the budget for the european environment agency for 2010. the rapporteur has pointed out a number of points where there was a breach: conflict of interest of the executive director which may have significantly affected the work of the agency, incorrect procurement of services and misuse of eu funds. it is also pointed out that this is a suspension of liability. the agency has demonstrated its responsiveness on many points and the quality of the supporting research reports produced is good. therefore, an extended deadline is what is needed to correct irregularities and explain oneself to the european parliament.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we do not believe that price regulation at the consumer level solves the structural problems of the roaming market, as regulation prevents prices from falling below the regulated price. we therefore welcome the fact that the new regulation contains market mechanisms that can increase competition in the roaming market and thus create lower prices for consumers. in particular, we welcome the proposal for a so-called 'local break out', which would enable consumers to connect directly via local networks when abroad, without having to use the data room of their home provider.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we do not believe that price regulation at the consumer level solves the structural problems of the roaming market, as such regulation prevents prices from falling below the regulated price. we therefore welcome the fact that the new regulation contains market mechanisms that can increase competition in the roaming market and thus create lower prices for consumers. in particular, we welcome the proposal for a local break-out, which would enable consumers to connect directly via local networks when abroad, without having to use the data room of their home provider.
in writing. - i voted for the report. the report goes further than the commission and proposes a lower price ceiling for roaming calls. it is a step in the right direction, although i personally think the ceiling could be even lower. the report also proposes some improvements in transparency and consumer protection. here too, far more could be done to safeguard the interests of consumers, but since it is, after all, a step in the right direction, i am voting in favour of the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. we believe that the conflict of laws rules in this area should not be allowed to conflict with the swedish freedom of the press regulation and the freedom of expression act. the proposal presented may lead to such conflicts when swedish courts are to apply foreign law. if this means that the current exemption does not remain, legislation should very clearly give precedence to constitutional provisions in the individual country such as the swedish freedom of the press ordinance and the freedom of expression act.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i am not going to sing the praises of the single market but rather focus on its shortcomings. the eu's neoliberal economic policy, emu, and the single market today place the principle of the free movement of goods ahead of the interests of citizens. it has created a new europe a europe of mass unemployment, poverty and growing class divisions, while pushing back the drive for a better environment and gender equality. the report refers to the krakow declaration, which describes the single market as 'the most powerful tool for restoring sustainable growth'. however, the single market cannot in itself create sustainable growth and more jobs. it's not possible. because it requires a whole new economic policy that is green and expansive, makes investments in the public sector and puts people before the system. paragraph 33 states that the eu is to be a direct human contact with 'citizens and consumers through the commission representation office'. that's a great idea! actively invite citizens, let men and women pour into the representative offices to share their views on the single market and the current austerity policies - policies that have devastated the lives and futures of millions of people. the basic principle and objective of the internal market should be the good of people and the environment, not the interests of big business as is the case today. the present single market has also erected a high and guarded wall against the outside world. the single market scoreboard says nothing about the thousands of poor people from the south who hoped for a better future in europe but drowned in the high waves of the mediterranean.
mr president, i would like to thank you. let me begin by saying that ukraine is europe and has its place in europe. eu-ukraine cooperation, such as the association agreement, is also important for ukraine and its european ambitions. to get closer to the eu, or to become part of it one day, you must share the same values as the eu. this applies to all countries that want a closer relationship with the eu, including ukraine, regardless of who is currently in power. one of the first things you notice when these values diverge from the eu's is that human rights and the rule of law are not working. in the case of ukraine, we in the european parliament have been concerned for a long time about both of these things, above all because we have not been able to see that the ukrainian state makes a distinction between political trials and legal trials. criminal acts must be punished for their criminal character, but political trials must cease. if ukraine is serious about moving closer to the eu, legal proceedings must be transparent and in line with eu standards. human rights must be respected and the media must be independent. without these three things, we will have a more closed society, and this is not the way we want to see ukraine go. the eu and the european parliament have always been clear about what we expect from our partners. it is now up to the people of ukraine to demand these changes. we cannot deviate from our values, but we can help ukraine transform into a modern democracy and we are ready to do so.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats voted in favour of the report on the european union's internal security strategy because we support its main message: that the security strategy should focus on those areas where eu cooperation brings a clear added value, while respecting subsidiarity. paragraph 19 deals with the development of a european legal culture. we agree that mutual trust between member states in the field of justice should be strengthened. however, we believe that this development should be achieved primarily by strengthening fundamental and procedural rights in the member states to a uniform level and not by creating a complete european legal culture. we do not support increased links between the common security and defence policy (csdp) and justice and home affairs (jha) work, nor do we support increased cooperation between the eu and nato.
in writing. - i voted against the report. the main reason for this is that the report emphasises the importance of federal development in the field of internal security, with europol and eurojust as some of the tools. i also believe that the citizens' privacy in the area of information security is not sufficiently safeguarded in this report.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the own-initiative report on a strategy to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers. we welcome both the fact that the report emphasizes subsidiarity and that it does not seek to establish different levels of consumer protection, but that the starting point is a high level of consumer protection for all. we believe that vulnerable consumers should be given the same opportunity to make free and informed choices. we therefore support self-regulatory initiatives and increased cooperation between the commission, the member states and industry to strengthen consumer empowerment. we also welcome the fact that the report highlights the importance of responsible advertising aimed at children on tv and the internet, since children do not always have the ability to understand and judge messages. we support the idea that advertising should not be regulated at eu level, but that it is essential that businesses implement the voluntary initiatives and codes of conduct that have been developed.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the own-initiative report on a strategy to strengthen the rights of vulnerable consumers. we welcome both the fact that the report emphasizes subsidiarity and that it does not seek to establish different levels of consumer protection, but that the starting point is a high level of consumer protection for all. we believe that vulnerable consumers should be given the same opportunity to make free and informed choices. we therefore support self-regulatory initiatives and increased cooperation between the commission, the member states and industry to strengthen consumer empowerment. we also welcome the fact that the report highlights the importance of responsible advertising aimed at children on tv and the internet, since children do not always have the ability to understand and judge messages. we support the idea that advertising should not be regulated at eu level, but that it is essential that businesses implement the voluntary initiatives and codes of conduct that have been developed.
in writing. - strong consumer protection for all consumers active on the european market is essential. the key is that consumers have access to simple and reliable information about services and goods. the consumers we need to give greater protection to are those who cannot take advantage of the information available. a too broad definition of who is a 'vulnerable consumer' risks diluting the protection of those individuals who really need special support. for us, with a liberal mindset, the concept of vulnerability should be based on the needs of the individual, not group affiliation. we did not hear that view during the course of the debate, but we are not voting against the report, because it raises an important issue which we believe needs further discussion.
in writing. - the importance of basing the debate on the situation of women in turkey on facts and of recognising the progress made; however, it is not for the eu to recommend how turkey should promote gender equality, whether turkey should introduce a quota system, or priorities in education and family policy. i welcome the steps turkey has taken to promote women's rights and participation, particularly in education and the labour market. what we can do is to continue to work together to promote female entrepreneurship, not only in the cities but also in the countryside. it is important that we show respect for the country's culture, traditions and religion and that we do not impose our model on turkey. at the same time, traditions must not be an excuse for the oppression of women. i regularly stress the importance of dialogue with the turkish government and members of parliament on the alarming number of honour killings and violence against women in the home. it is very positive that turkey has ratified the convention on preventing and combating violence against women and has recently adopted laws and action plans. they are aware that the challenge is also to change the attitudes of society and the perception of the role of women, and to ensure that changes are implemented in practice.
in writing. - we chose to abstain from today's vote on the report 'a 2020 perspective for women in turkey'. turkey is not a member of the eu, and therefore we should not call on turkey to change its domestic policy.
in writing. - i voted for the report. this is because the report calls for women's rights and gender equality issues to be at the heart of the ongoing negotiations on turkey's possible accession to the european union. it is particularly positive that my amendments, which highlight the particular vulnerability of kurdish women in turkish society, have been included in the report. i believe, however, that much stronger criticism and international condemnation of the systematic repression of the kurds by the turkish state is needed. the rapporteur should also have paid attention to the fact that there are currently 500 kurdish women in prison and expressed his dissatisfaction. but since the report is still moving in the right direction in its recommendations on the human rights and equal rights of all women in turkey, i have decided to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. 'we fully support the initiative for an equal turkey by 2020. however, we cannot support the proposal for legal quotas in political parties and in the electoral system. political parties are private associations, and it would be a slip of the tongue for us as members of the european parliament to call for such legislation in turkey. that is why we voted in favour of the report but against the proposals on quotas.
in writing. - the report by mrs lenz (a7-0210/97) on the commission communication entitled 'the european union's role in the fight against poverty: a policy for the future' (com (97) 040 final - c7-0214/97); i do not think that the european parliament has the right to tell turkey to introduce laws on compulsory quotas for the electoral rolls. furthermore, we cannot call on the turkish government to make gender equality compulsory in the curriculum at all levels of education or to place income levels below parental leave. i am very aware that there is a lot for turkey to work on in terms of gender equality. this is a task which the eu must of course encourage and support. but to come up with sticks and demand legislation, etc. - something we don't even have ourselves - i think is the wrong way to go.
madam president, i would like to thank you. for me, the rights of lgbt people are much more important to talk about in the european parliament than milk quotas, because of astrid lulling's agenda item yesterday. simon busuttil, we have to get emotional! every day, people in our union are abused simply because of who they love or who they are. they are oppressed, discriminated against, abused, or even killed. it is tragic that today, in 2012, we in europe have not come any further on this issue. we have an important discrimination directive lying in the council's desk because there are contradictions within the council on the rights of lgbt people. in hungary, a new constitution stipulates that marriage is between a man and a woman. in lithuania and latvia, there is a bill that says that information about homosexuality should be banned. one of the easiest words to understand and one of the most beautiful words there is is the word family. the eu offers free movement for citizens, including families, but not for everyone. the eu definition of family is out of step with reality. this is deeply regrettable, because one of the pillars of eu cooperation is human rights, and that includes the rights of lgbt people. we have to sweep in front of our own door.
mr president, i would like to thank you. this is an unusually balanced report on the balance of trade with china. this is not the usual tail-singing that i think we usually hear when the eu talks about trade with china. my dad always says that whoever gets in the way of progress will only get run over. world trade and the world economy look very different today than they did when i was growing up. it's going to look even more different in 10, 15, 20 years. it's a fact, and there's nothing to stand in the way of that. the fact that china has grown so much in the international trade arena is basically a good thing, not only for the human aspects with all the poverty eradicated, but also something that we have been able to benefit from with increased exports and increased imports of cheap products, low inflation and so on. basically, this is because of comparative advantages from china, differences that are what drive trade. however, this does not mean that china always plays by the rules. on the contrary, china abuses many rules and we should be particularly tough. they have a lousy respect for intellectual property. we'll fight about that. they have a lousy policy on investment opportunities in china, not to mention the protectionism they apply online with the great firewall. we must fight all of this, but we must not fight chinese exports. after all, the eu is the biggest exporter to china. we're profiting from trade with china. the most important thing we can do if we want to get to the balance of trade with china is to work on our own competitiveness. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and it is hoping that the council will take them up. i think there are opportunities with trade with china. i am therefore glad that this report points to more than just problems.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the discussions on the agreements with colombia and peru show that human rights are involved. i want to raise the issue of freedom of speech, the right to know and the right to education. the agreement negotiated by the eu with colombia and peru, together with several other agreements imposed on these countries, contains strong intellectual property rights obligations and inflexible trade rules without ensuring corresponding limitations on the monopoly positions these rights imply. in colombia, this has led to an act such as making a private copy or a limited copy for educational purposes now being punishable, criminal. we need to give importance to our trade relations with third countries, to freedom of expression, to the right to education and to the right to knowledge. we need agreements that introduce and strengthen copyright restrictions at the international level. there is no good reason why the union should not lead such a development at international level. nor are there any good reasons for us to approve an agreement which does not take steps towards a better policy in this area.
mr president, honourable members, the minister and the commissioner! it is no wonder that many citizens in europe are outraged at the banks' compliance with the requirements of moderation and reason in terms of remuneration and risk-taking. a transaction tax, however, is not the answer to public anger. it is a bad tax which risks increasing the costs of ordinary bank customers, hindering investment in europe, damaging growth and thereby putting jobs at risk. i also believe that the calculation of the revenue is uncertain. for 40 years this proposal has been discussed, and it has been introduced once in europe, in my home country of sweden. as a result, the bulk of stock trading moved from stockholm to london. if a transaction tax is to be introduced, it must be introduced globally or at least throughout the eu. however, i think the financial sector should contribute more tax revenue. a better model is, for example, to introduce a stability levy for all banks. to summarize very briefly: i think the banking sector and the financial sector should pay taxes. it's not a problem for me, but this is a bad tax that will be counterproductive. mr commissioner, try again, make a new effort. (the speaker accepted to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – yes, mrs mccarthy, but you do not know how that is going to work in practice. you do not know that because it is open to question; you may argue, but it is open to question. there are too many questions here. the minister said that in her introductory remarks. why cannot we be sure whether this is a good tax or is a counterproductive tax? mrs mccarthy, i think i pay more taxes than you have done. i am prepared to pay more taxes but they have to be fair and they have to be good taxes. this is a bad solution.
mr president, there are a number of reasons for parliament to vote against the financial transaction tax. firstly, sweden tried this in the 1980s and it failed. it undermined swedish financial markets and the city of london gained. it also caused more speculation, and all the experience shows that it did not help. also, this was at a time when the financial markets were less global and less mobile. now, the opposite is true. secondly, even the commission recognises that the financial transaction tax will lead to less growth. the discussion is about how much less growth, but it will give less growth, which is contrary to what europe needs today. we need more growth and we need reforms that support economic growth and dynamic financial markets in europe. thirdly, the financial transaction tax is not providing us with new money. it will be paid by customers – those who are going to invest and those who trust in their future pension schemes. it will be paid by all of us, because there are no taxes paid by anyone apart from the citizens of europe. this tax will not help in the europe of today, so we should vote ‘no’.
in writing. - i voted for the report. this is an improved recovery plan for tuna compared to the previous one. it allows smaller catches and is based on iccat recommendations. of course, it would be better if no catches were allowed at all, but i felt that this was still a step towards a more sustainable fishery.
in writing. - the financial sector is undertaxed. it has a tax advantage of being exempt from vat, which according to the european commission corresponds to about 0.11-0.17 percent of gdp. the result is an unfair distribution of resources. risk capital that should be allocated to other sectors is instead used in a less socially beneficial way by financial firms. there are still many questions about this tax, but it is nevertheless reasonable to see it as one of the options that should be included in the continuing debate on how to correct the undertaxation of the financial sector. if a transaction tax is to be introduced, the clear direction must be that it is to be introduced at a global level. the possibility of the eu going ahead should not be dismissed, but this should be seen as a first step towards a global tax. what we have decided today is not a european tax, but a framework for taxation of transactions where taxation remains entirely at the national level. we cannot afford to transfer taxation powers to the eu. today's vote was essentially about the transaction tax as such, not about how the national revenues should be used. the revenue aspects are dealt with separately in other policy processes.'
in writing. - i voted for the report. it is important to introduce a tax on financial transactions. the deregulation of financial markets is one of the main causes of the global economic crisis. i think the report could have gone further, both in terms of scope and the level of the tax rates. i would also like to see clearer wording on the use of the proceeds for aid, environmental and social projects in developing countries. i would also like to see additional tax rates in the event of rapid and increasing movements of financial transactions through the use of automatic tax rates linked to the pace of financial movements. but since the introduction of this tax is nevertheless a step in the right direction, i voted in favour. finally, i would like to stress that, contrary to what is stated in the report, i do not believe that tax revenues should go to the eu budget, but should be distributed among the member states.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer; it is more than astonishing that a majority of meps have confidence in a 'financial transaction tax', as advocated in the report on the introduction of a financial transaction tax (ftt). attitudes have changed dramatically in the past year among party groups and members. the idea that a ftt would provide funds to solve virtually all economic problems has taken hold and seems almost parodyary. it is important to recall that a tobin tax was tried in sweden and proved to be a waste. transactions are moved from sweden. it is also a matter of course to stress that the cost of ftt is borne by the general consumer and that economic growth is being hampered.
in writing. - since we do not want a compulsory right for the european parliament's committees of inquiry to call in other than eu officials and since neither article 15 nor amendment 18 is a viable alternative, we abstain from voting on amendment 18.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - mr president! - what is it? i would like to begin by thanking gerben-jan gerbrandy for a good report. as rapporteur for the committee on industry on this matter, i would like to stress that the promotion of sustainable consumption of resources is not a contradiction but rather a prerequisite for strengthening the industrial competitiveness of the eu. we need innovative business models, research and innovation, a reuse market, an extended ecodesign directive and a faster implementation of the framework directive on waste. in our opinion from the committee on industry, we also raised the question of the need to develop and strengthen the forms of interaction between the member states and the eu. in our view, this can be done with clear, measurable and verifiable objectives, indicators and measures, including specific objectives and concrete legislative initiatives, supported by the necessary funding mechanisms. this is an important question in this context too.
mr president, i would like to thank you. resource efficiency is really about getting better at doing more with less. it also opens up new jobs and new growth, i.e. long-term sustainable growth that is climate and environmentally compatible and which is therefore becoming an important factor in competition. this report focuses on investment in innovation and research. the report also states, for example, that subsidies to environmentally harmful activities must be stopped. it's very good, and it's not a day too early. it is a good basis for change of course, it is a good basis for new investment and for new jobs. in the work on the european parliament's raw materials strategy, it was also clear that resource efficiency is directly linked to security of supply. europe's industry depends on metals, minerals and other raw materials. when we develop ideas like 'urban mining', we also develop new industries. but above all we are helping to ensure that existing industry also has access to the raw materials it needs. it's about saving resources. it is the wise use of resources. this report is therefore an important contribution to further discussion and action. at the same time, the implications of the tax shift, i.e. the redistribution of tax from labour to the environment, require a more in-depth debate.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i would like to thank you, edith bauer, for helping to tackle the large pay gap between women and men with your report. of course, a lot of different measures are needed to deal with this. i'm just going to give you one perspective. the basis for equal pay is in fact a well-developed public sector with good social infrastructure, such as childcare and homes for the elderly, so that women can establish themselves much more easily in the labour market and have the same opportunities for full-time work as men. shared parental leave is another important measure, because we know that women stay at home with children to a much greater extent than men. this contributes to employers' perception of women as a more insecure workforce, which naturally leads to a deterioration in their wage trends and working conditions. to stop wage discrimination, we must therefore stop cuts and privatisations in the public sector and allow men to take more of the parental leave.
the commission is not prepared to accept this. the most important thing in all wage formation is that we have free and strong trade unions, which are not hindered by the posting directives or other eu regulations. at the same time, it is political values and decisions that determine the social climate in which wages are negotiated. it is important that we have had a principle in the eu member states for 50 years, namely equal pay for equal work. the pay gap between men and women, for example, is still 16 to 17 per cent. in some places, the pay gap between women and men has even widened. it could be said that this means that the directive on equal treatment for women and men has been turned into a paper tiger. all agree that the unfair pay gap between women and men should be tackled, but there are very few concrete measures. it may have to do with the complexity of the causes. discrimination involves a variety of factors, social factors, undervaluing of women's work, inequality in work-life balance, traditions and stereotypes. on this basis, the member states of the eu must invest in social welfare, invest in childcare, care for the elderly and parental leave covering both mothers and fathers. in this context, the eu could help to push forward.
madam president, i would like to thank you. there are more women than men in europe today. yet we are not seen as equally worthy. how is that possible in 2012? how is it that we are standing here again asking for something that was written into the treaty more than 40 years ago? why is it that a man working in a typical woman's job often gets paid more than a woman, while a woman working in a typical man's job gets paid less than a man? why is it that member states do not succeed in achieving equal pay for equal work, despite gender equality laws? my answer to these questions may be quite controversial it depends on the man. men in positions of power have to put their foot down. the men must take responsibility and share the payroll. men have to share the responsibility of the home and the children. look around you, how many men are in this debate? we will never be equal unless we fight together, side by side, men and women. (applause) i would like to thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the decision taken by switzerland in april means a substantial reduction in the number of visas granted per year, from 6 000 to 2 000 for citizens of eight eu member states. this type of quota was abolished in the past, as we know. that is why it is a big step in the wrong direction to reinstate them now. this leads to systematic discrimination which we in the eu certainly do not welcome. the truth is that switzerland has benefited greatly from the growth of the approximately one million eu citizens living and working in switzerland. a country of just under eight million citizens needs these people for growth and success. now the right-wing populist forces have made their mark, and i regret that the swiss government has failed to do much. it is embarrassing and shameful that eight of the eu member states are singled out for discrimination. the least we can ask is that the eu member states be treated equally.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the permissible sound power level of towed vehicles; however, i would like to make it clear by this explanation of vote that my support for the report is not entirely unconditional. a few points in the original text, such as paragraphs 20, 32 and 55, mention ideas which can be considered both backward and naive, especially from an economic point of view. the issue is pressing, and i largely share gerbrandy's view of solutions, including the issue of eu subsidies to environmentally damaging activities in fisheries and agriculture, the importance of new innovations to promote resource efficiency in europe, and the eu's responsibilities on the global stage. that is why i voted in favour of the text, despite the unfortunate wording in the paragraphs mentioned above.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats would like to stress that we are in principle in favour of a green tax change, but that we see problems if the change focuses on reducing income taxes too much. a green tax switch must not contribute to the erosion of tax revenues and thus the distributional effects. a green tax switch should pave the way for technological innovation and contribute to the creation of green jobs and fair conditions. the report also addresses the need to protect the eu's forestry sector. in view of the diversity of forestry in europe, we would like to stress the importance of the member states taking their own decisions on their forestry.
in the light of the above, the commission proposes that the council adopt a decision on the proposal for a regulation on the european parliament and council establishing a european agency for fundamental rights. youth unemployment is high in large parts of europe. we want to emphasise that it is the eu member states that have the means, the tools and the responsibility to shape labour market policy and to find solutions to the challenges facing europe. initiatives relating to youth unemployment are and remain a national competence.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of a public authority. the resolution is a first reaction to the commission's employment package, which was presented a few weeks ago. youth unemployment is a very serious problem in europe. despite the troubling points on the legislative right to youth work, increased regulation of traineeships, the creation of common eu certificates for the assessment of 'formal and informal learning', to say the least, i voted in favour of the resolution. this is because the problem of youth unemployment is so serious that extraordinary measures are needed.
in writing. - it is important to commit to equal pay for equal work for men and women. the european parliament can play a significant role in shaping public opinion on pay disparities and in elevating the debate, but it is not the right forum to decide on pay issues. i therefore voted against the recommendation to the commission on the application of the principle of equal pay for male and female workers for equal work or work of equal value, since it is for the member states to decide on these matters.
in writing. - we welcome the report on the application of the principles of equal pay for male and female workers for equal work or work of equal value (2011/2285 ((ini)). however, we do not share the report's statement that 'a decentralised and individualised system for setting wages should be seen as a worrying development'. on the contrary, individual wage calls and wage negotiations should be the norm for addressing wage discrimination, provided that it is done through an open and transparent process.
mr president, i would like to thank you. japan is the third largest economy in the world and a very important trading partner for us here in europe. but trade between us is not uncomplicated. after meeting with many european and japanese companies, i think the picture is quite clear. the major challenges facing european companies in japan are discriminatory bureaucracy and hassle and a lot of protectionist rules. japanese companies, for their part, complain all the more about european tariffs. i am therefore glad that we are now slowly but surely approaching the opening of free trade negotiations, because it is precisely with this tool that both these problems are being tackled. and now that the discussion on the scope is over, we can also see clearly what benefits we can expect from a free trade agreement. it is therefore important that we now take the next step, that the council establishes a clear mandate for negotiations and that the commission starts negotiations. as we have heard in part here in the house today, there is some resistance to these negotiations, but i think it is a little exciting because this resistance looks a little different from what it usually does when we discuss free trade negotiations. it is not the usual one, the one about agricultural protectionism or the talk about social and environmental dumping and it is not north against south, but here it feels more difficult because here it is often economies that are similar to each other that are to be met. it's about equal rules and i don't think this is going to be an easy negotiation. a number of us who visited japan to discuss with japanese representatives the conditions for a free trade agreement, and i must admit that i was not fully convinced of their determination and willingness to take some of the tough decisions in the matter of changing discriminatory rules. but that does not mean that we should not start negotiations, on the contrary, i believe that it is within the framework of negotiations that we can put the pressure we need to open up the japanese market to european companies. we need a free trade agreement. in these times when it is more popular than ever to talk about reforms for growth, there is no other growth reform that can be as good and effective as a free trade agreement. it is a reform that does not cost money and unfortunately it seems that there are many european leaders and many representatives who do not recognize such a reform despite staring it in the face. i therefore propose that we propose as soon as possible to enter into full negotiations with japan on a free trade agreement.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? so on wednesday we shall be voting on the generalized system of preferences (gsp), as we usually abbreviate it. as rapporteur, i would like to take this opportunity to begin by thanking the commission, the danish presidency and, in particular, all the shadow rapporteurs with whom i have had the privilege of working on this matter. we have had a very good cooperation and i think that is also apparent when we look at the results. the gsp is the eu's most important trade policy tool, especially in trade with developing countries, and no other tool covers so many countries. and with the help of the gsp, we can help developing countries in their efforts to achieve basic human rights, to reduce poverty and to achieve sustainable development in general. and we do this by lowering or eliminating tariffs on their goods. this is the first time that the european parliament has been involved in legislating on the gsp, despite the fact that it has been in existence for more than 40 years, and i would like to start by saying that i think the fact that we can stand here in the plenary today and discuss a proposal with an agreement in the baggage one year after the proposal was presented is a success in itself. early on in this work i met many people who thought that things would be more complicated and difficult now that the european parliament was involved in decision-making and perhaps it has become a little more complicated, but no one can say anything but that we are working purposefully and effectively. we have put pressure on the council to come to a decision and instead of following their lead, they have had to take a stand based on our standpoints. the new proposal and the one we have now negotiated with the danish presidency means that those countries which have managed to make economic progress or which have other more favourable agreements with the eu are no longer included in the generalized system of preferences and are not allowed to take part in this particular system. i'll be honest with you, when i started working on this issue and i looked at some of the countries that were considered developing countries, i found it difficult to understand how some of the gulf states, for example, could be considered developing countries. however, we are also very clear that we are safeguarding and maintaining that part of the system of generalized preferences which ensures that the poorest countries in the world do not have to pay any customs duties on any products, except arms, to europe. it is perhaps the single aspect of the eu's trade policy that i think we have the most reason to be proud of. our work in the european parliament has been aimed at making the gsp system transparent, predictable and more generous for those who remain in the system. the most important debate and the most difficult debate i think we had was about the criteria for selection. we knew that we needed stable and internationally recognised criteria that could stand up to a wto review and so we concluded that the $4 000 originally proposed by the commission was probably the most reasonable. however, we have made some adjustments in the transitional period. to make the system more generous to those who remain in it, we have also included more products that can be of value to poor countries and increase their ability to trade for prosperity. we have also strengthened the requirements for joining the eu's flagship human rights scheme, gsp+, while making it more attractive to join. i just want to mention something about gsp+, because it's the eu's system of giving additional trade preferences in exchange for countries committing, committing to live up to 27 different conventions for human rights and for sustainable development. i would like to conclude by thanking all those who have been involved in this work and i would like to say that it will be many years, 10 years more, before we have to discuss this issue again. i hope that in 10 years' time we will have even fewer countries in the gsp - partly because many have concluded even more favourable agreements with the eu, but above all because we have fewer poor developing countries as a consequence and of the trade for development we are doing here.
madam president, i would like to thank you. i am more concerned about those who cannot afford to buy any clothes than i am about the european textile industry, and given that these countries account for only 4% of our imports, i think the most generous terms should apply. so i worry that we're removing the vulnerability criteria that have existed in the past. if a country has no diversified industry, then perhaps a good way to try to help create it is to make sure that they can export here without tariffs. i am also concerned that we are creating artificial borders within regional free trade areas or cooperation areas where the majority of countries are poor. we should also be able to continue to treat them as gsp+ countries. i think that this agreement does not help these countries enough and that is a disadvantage when you go too fast in the first reading agreements. many of these countries have not had a chance to make their voices heard in a good way and many of those affected have not been able to make their voices heard. we make too many first-instance deals, and this is yet another example of that.
member of the commission. − madam president, one of the amendments put forward raises the problem that if one country in a customs union is a gsp country, and the others are not, this would create imbalances. i can hardly imagine the opposite being the case: would you, for example, agree to china obtaining ‘everything but arms’ status as soon as it entered into an agreement with, say, laos or cambodia, to set up a customs union by a later date, for example within 25 years? it would be very difficult to imagine that being the right answer to the question. you could say the same of india, pakistan, thailand or malaysia, which do the same with ldcs. needless to say, this would accelerate preference erosion, with a significant drop in ldc exports. they would be squeezed completely out of the market with such a system. several members have asked why we did not include other criteria. we have given a lot of thought to this issue, but our conclusion is that we have to ensure wto compatibility, and the use of a single indicator which is internationally recognised is, we think, the best solution. it would be a disservice to developing countries, and to the credentials of the eu as a serious partner, if we added more criteria and, as a result, lost yet another wto case on gsp. this would lead to a full redesign of the new scheme just after it entered into force. therefore, we should stick to an internationally recognised, objective way to differentiate among countries. another question that has been raised a couple of times relates to using the human development index as an indicator. again, we looked into the possibility of using the human development index in gsp, but this index is not well suited to this exercise. human development index data are not complete in terms of time or countries covered; also, human development index categories are relative and fixed. this means that countries may develop significantly, and the development needs which the gsp should address may change, but they will remain in the same category. for example, no mater how much china grows it is likely to stay in the same ‘medium’ category and thus, basically, keep gsp preferences forever. these problems are acknowledged by the united nations itself. they would render the human development index inadequate for the gsp and enhance the risk of wto challenge. the human development index is a good index to establish a long-term picture of social development, but it is ill-suited to the short-term analysis of export needs which the gsp requires. finally, as regards transition periods, i would like to say that these were the subject of negotiations between council, parliament and the commission up to a few weeks ago, and i am satisfied with the compromise achieved. a number of countries no longer receiving gsp benefits are in free trade negotiations with us. we look forward to their conclusion and recall the eu commitment to assist, pending wto membership, and to support development as per eu development policy – a debate we will come to later on. finally, i would like to thank all colleagues for their comments and i look forward to the vote on the gsp tomorrow.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? just a few quick comments. i am not surprised that there are some colleagues who feel that things have gone too fast. i am not taking it into account, however, because the result has been poor. on the contrary! we have a very large majority for this compromise here in the european parliament and we have been discussing this issue for several years. just because you disagree with everything does not mean that you can postpone the process and say we will negotiate until every member of this parliament is in favour of the compromise. we have a good compromise and i think we should guard it. the big question that has been discussed most here today has of course been what criteria should apply to whether or not a country should be included in the generalised system of preferences. we didn't want to have a situation where everyone chooses a criterion that suits their favorite country. it's easy to sit in a country and say that this is the country i want to be part of and that's why i choose this criterion. we have tried to find something that is clear, fair and above all that will stand up to the test of the wto. and we did. the part that i think most members here should be very proud of is the whole 'everything but arms' issue, which gives the world's poorest countries free access to the eu market. i've discussed this with american representatives and they say it's a brilliant idea and that they also want "everything but guns"... and sugar and cocoa and coffee and cotton and bananas. this is something that europe is doing and showing leadership, and i think we should continue to try to get the rest of the world to join us. i'm proud of the deal. it provides an efficient, predictable and transparent trading system. we didn't take the crisis into account to be less, to be more generous, but rather more generous to the poorest of the world. that's the result of this deal.
mr president, i would like to thank you. when we listen to jean-marie le pen, we understand the importance of acting quickly. we know what the isolationist, nationalist europe that jean-marie le pen wants has led to in european history and that is not the europe i want to live in. i welcome the current packages and legislative proposals and i believe they are necessary to get europe and euro-cooperation out of the crisis. we should also give the countries outside the euro area the opportunity to join in time - we agree, madam minister. the rules on budgetary control certainly need to be tightened up. i saw in the economist a ship that went down, and the headline was, when will mrs. merkel start the engines? yes, but it may not be so bad that this ship is floating before the engines start and therefore i believe that the measures we are taking now are essential to keep the boat floating and then it will be able to get going. this is our experience in sweden in the 1990s: it was not about tightening for the sake of tightening but about giving the opportunity to grow and i think this is a good proposal that gives europe that opportunity.
mr president, we are facing deeper and deeper problems that are threatening the stability and the welfare of our societies. if increased spending and increased deficits had been the solution to our problems we would have no problems today. the country reports presented by the commission speak a plain language: it is a matter of a failure to make reforms and of ongoing imbalances based upon too much spending. i say this because we cannot avoid the problem, it is at the core of europe and present in all of our societies. the solution is not inventing new institutions or inventing new funds for new spending, it is making reforms in all member states, something we have known for a number of years. we need to act together and we need to have common rules. what is even more important is making all the reforms at european level – we can decide on this today – and at member state level that can open up growth and new jobs. we all know what sort of reforms are needed. mr president, we do not need yet more new pacts; we need acts.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the report by the committee on economic and monetary affairs contains strong words in defence of trade union rights and freedoms. all measures under this legislation shall respect national wage formation and national collective agreements. these are important markings. the commission has committed a number of excesses during the crisis. extortion-like demands have reduced minimum wages, dismantled the collective bargaining structure and excluded trade unions from negotiations. the labour market has been particularly damaged in greece, ireland and portugal. these ugly habits must end. it is unacceptable that the rights and freedoms of the citizens are being violated. besides, attacking unions is counterproductive. only in constructive cooperation, where all parties are involved and take responsibility, can the labour market function effectively.
in writing. − i have voted against the final vote on the herczog report. although i am in favour of cooperation with third countries, and especially developing countries, in the area of r&d cooperation and data-sharing of know-how transfer on clean and renewable energy sources, as stated in §78, and although i am generally in favour of an eu energy policy based on clean and renewable energy sources without dependence on fossil fuels and nuclear energy, i cannot agree with any further spending of funds on iter or any other fusion research, further reliance and investment in nuclear energy, and i definitely do not agree with energy exploration in the arctic region.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is extremely positive that we have a special representative for human rights and freedoms. and, in parenthesis, i would venture to say that it would be a good thing if each individual country had a special minister with the title of mr (minister for human rights). we must admit, however, that we have sometimes put stability before human rights and freedoms. and we must also admit that when we spoke of democratization we were eager to talk about multiparty systems instead of highlighting the respect for human rights and freedoms. there is no doubt that this representative will be given enormous tasks and will have to deal with both countries. but let us hope and let us hope that this representative can really change the lives of individuals even though it may be difficult to deal with large giant countries like china and india. after all, that is what human rights and freedoms are all about: the right and respect and dignity of the individual. and i am convinced that much more can be done, and if there is anything that this house should and should be known for, it is precisely that political decisions should be based on human rights and freedoms.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i would first like to thank catherine ashton for her good and concrete answers. the eu's election monitors, however, found in the final report that the electoral process in congo had gone out of control. it was full of cheating, fraud, fraud and violence and then catherine ashton describes it as not being perfectly executed. i think that is an understatement to say the least. do we really get anywhere with such diplomatic descriptions? should we not be much tougher, for example, in the run-up to the forthcoming regional and local elections in the democratic republic of congo? the situation is very serious: there are fighting, there are mass murders, there is sexual violence against countless women, there are kidnappings and there is persecution of the political opposition, journalists and human rights activists and there is rarely anyone brought to justice. the congo has its own responsibility, but the eu also has a responsibility for the situation in the congo and its neighbourhood. we need to be much clearer and much tougher, not just in the long term, but today.
mr president, the economic crisis is one of the reasons why a broad majority in this parliament defends the eu budget. we are convinced that the budget is necessary to finance strategic investments in the internal market and its infrastructure, crucially needed in order to boost jobs, sustainable growth and competitiveness. i therefore very much welcome the broad agreement on my report on project bonds. in this situation we must avoid deep splits between institutions and member states, particularly between richer net payer countries and the poorer ones. in this situation we must build bridges, not dig trenches. let me focus on the negotiations on the financial framework. they are complicated, as several different procedures are involved. codecision on sector programmes, consent on the mff as such – meaning a veto for the european parliament – a right for parliament to be heard on own resources, and on top of that an interinstitutional agreement. this is not easy, so let us speak clearly. this parliament, elected to represent the citizens, will not accept that member states’ leaders take decisions in areas subject to codecision such as structural funds, research, agricultural infrastructure, etc., without a full codecision procedure. that procedure can be finalised only when we have an agreement on the financial envelopes. two, the positions on the mff agreed by the european council must be negotiated between parliament and the general affairs council in order to get our consent. a fait accompli will not be accepted. three, parliament and council should have fully-fledged negotiations on all mff-related aspects and programmes before deciding on figures and finalising the mff package. to conclude, i agree with mr wammen: nothing is agreed until everything is agreed, but that includes mff ceilings and legislative programmes as well as own resources. i am quite convinced that we will be able to find a reasonable solution as we know how important this is for the future of europe. we simply cannot afford to fail. (applause) (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – no i would not, because i do not think that it is the euro that is the problem. it is the lack of policies to support the monetary union that is the problem. when we have those policies in place i would recommend my own country to join the euro as well. (applause)
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. but we do not think it is fair that gdp per capita should be the only criterion for a country to be covered by the gsp. we do not think that the world bank classification is sufficient, but the eu should also take into account other factors that show how vulnerable countries are, such as diversification, integration into world trade and ranking on the undp human development index, when making the classification. we support the fact that the countries covered by the 'everything but arms' (eba) targeting the approximately 50 countries that the un designates as the world's least developed countries are not affected by the gsp amendment.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the proposal contains many important tools to ensure budgetary discipline among euro area members, which has been underlined by developments in recent years. in the process, proposals for joint borrowing and an eu investment fund equivalent to 1% of gdp have been introduced, which would only lead to further debt accumulation. we have voted against these individual parts. the commission proposal, on the other hand, concerns instruments and frameworks which it is urgent to decide on, especially in the present situation. we have therefore voted in favour of the proposal in the other parts. we assume that the parts dealing with increased indebtedness, which do not belong here, will not be included in parliament's final reading. we have therefore voted in favour of the proposal for rules on monitoring and assessing draft budgetary plans and ensuring the correction of excessive deficits in the euro area member states.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the proposal contains many important tools to ensure budgetary discipline among euro area members, which has been underlined by developments in recent years. in the process, proposals for joint borrowing and an eu investment fund equivalent to 1% of gdp have been put forward, which would only lead to further debt accumulation. we have voted against these individual parts. the commission proposal, on the other hand, concerns instruments and frameworks which it is urgent to decide on, especially in the present situation. we have therefore voted in favour of the remaining parts of the proposal. we assume that the parts dealing with increased indebtedness, which do not belong here, will not be included in parliament's final reading. we have therefore voted in favour of the proposal for rules on monitoring and assessing draft budgetary plans and ensuring the correction of excessive deficits in the euro area member states.
in writing. - europe is facing an important crossroads. it is about deepening cooperation towards deeper political and economic integration or asking some countries to leave the euro. we are convinced that the way out of the crisis is through deeper political and economic cooperation. to achieve this, economic policies are needed that lead to sound and stable public finances and higher economic growth. we therefore welcome the two legislative proposals, the two-pack, which further tighten the economic surveillance of the euro area. the rules on budgetary surveillance need to be tightened up and followed by countries with large budget deficits and excessive public debt. the liberal group is in favour of the introduction of a debt-reduction fund. we support the idea because such a fund can create reasonable conditions for the countries with high public debt to remain in the euro area. the fund must have strict conditions and run for a limited period in order to function. it cannot therefore be compared with the introduction of eurobonds. the debt reduction fund can be an important piece of the puzzle in solving the debt crisis in europe and should be carefully evaluated.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. the resolution also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. own resources are a tax on citizens. if the eu is given the right to set taxes, the balance of power between the member states and the eu will change. we do not want to transfer sweden's taxation rights to a majority in the council and the european parliament. the eu can meet its commitments, new responsibilities and at the same time create the conditions for jobs and growth by prioritising. more money for the eu in the form of own resources, transaction taxes and new vat is not an investment that will help europe out of the crisis or the right way to finance the next long-term eu budget.
in writing. − i cannot support the resolution on the ‘multiannual financial framework and own resources’ as it gives credence to the austerity agenda in the member states. furthermore, i cannot support its call for an increase in the eu’s own resources, which is aimed at reducing the share of member-state-based contributions, as this will diminish the democratic accountability of the eu as well as the redistributive nature of the financing system. my decision was consequently to vote against the resolution. however, i support the parliament’s role in the process and my vote is not in any way a support for the council’s proposal.
in writing. - we believe that the eu budget must have sufficient resources to finance the commitments it has made. at the same time, we would stress that the eu should, as far as possible, take a restrictive stance and provide these resources through reallocation within the existing eu budget. we would prefer to see the agricultural budget reduced in favour of the priorities set out in the europe 2020 strategy: research and development, green transition, regional development, etc. we also believe it is very important to make eu administrative expenditure more efficient, one way of doing this being to increase transparency in the process of allocating and using this expenditure. we are open to a reform of the current rebate system which is enormously complicated if such a reform contributes to more transparency and provided that sweden is not discriminated against. we do not, however, believe that this should be conditional on the adoption of a new longterm budget. we also do not think that new own resources should be introduced. however, a change in this system does not imply any direct taxation right for the eu; the union does not have such a competence in the treaty. any change to the own resources system requires the approval of all member states in order to enter into force.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency. it is one of the pillars of the budgetary process and is also the one that will guide the distribution of the common funds at the disposal of the union. so far, everything is fine. unfortunately, the resolution also contains some texts which cannot be supported in the same way. they are about welcoming the financial transaction tax, which i firmly believe is a waste for sweden and europe, and about new own resources for the eu. own resources too often mean a tax to be paid directly to the eu budget. more money for the eu in the form of own resources is not automatically an investment that will help europe out of its troubles and strains. nor is it reasonable to ignore the difficult economic considerations and problems of individual quite a number of nations in the context of the eu budget. despite the very problematic wording, as i see it, i chose to vote in favour of the resolution.
member of the commission. - mr president, i thank mr klaus-heiner lehne for what he said and for the initiative he took in this respect. i promise him that on this issue, as on all others, i am wide awake, mr president, and proactive. the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the internal market. it is the immediate, everyday environment of all businesses in europe. our aim is to create, through this law and other reforms, the most efficient 'ecosystem' for business work, european mobility. i would like to say again that this large market should not be made first or only for large companies, but also for small and mediumsized enterprises, or even for very small enterprises. these are very real issues. that is why i was pleased with the success of the consultation on company law. we received over 500 responses and president lehne also referred to the contribution of the european parliament from all economic, social and academic actors across europe. we are objectively analysing the answers we have received. at this stage, what i understand from the responses we are receiving, and then from my own convictions, is that we have very strong support for european initiatives in this area of company law, particularly on two points. firstly, to facilitate crossborder business operations. i am thinking of the improvement of the regime for transnational mergers, the measures on crossborder divisions, or the rather difficult question of crossborder transfer of headquarters. secondly, the codification of company law. we're working on it. it is a long process, on which i hope, before the end of my mandate, to be able to make you concrete proposals. on the basis of these results, mr lehne, i am preparing, ladies and gentlemen, for october next year, an action plan with a series of concrete short, medium and longterm initiatives in the field of company law. and you will find, mr lehne, in this plan almost all the points you yourself have mentioned. but i'll go back to a few of them. this plan will cover our thinking on the future of company law and also our current work on corporate governance. i am convinced that we cannot separate the two, governance and corporate law. the two work streams are therefore grouped together to create this coherent framework. i would also like to welcome the work already done on corporate governance by your parliament, in particular by your rapporteur, mr bodu, whom i thank. i do not intend, of course, to go into detail about what this plan will cover, but i would like to mention some of the areas of work by telegraph. first, the plan will include initiatives to create more transparency between companies and investors. we must learn from certain irresponsible behaviours or practices that we have condemned. a first initiative will focus on non-financial corporate transparency, with the key element of requiring companies to communicate their diversity policy on boards. i will also propose actions to encourage more constructive and longer-term shareholder involvement in companies. in another area, i intend to propose that you hold shareholders accountable, for example in setting the framework for remuneration in the financial sector. another aspect of this plan is that i would like to propose measures to boost the competitiveness of european enterprises. there is a very strong demand to facilitate cross-border transactions. in this context, i understood the meaning of the parliament's resolution on a 14th directive on the crossborder transfer of the registered office of companies. there are quite different opinions on this question. the question of a new proposal remains open, but it is clear that i will only want to embark on this path on the basis of clear support from the member states and the european parliament. in the light of the results of our consultation, i will ask my services to reassess the situation and, if necessary, to prepare a proposal for a directive. i would also like to say a word, mr lehne, on a point you have raised, namely the european private sector. it is a subject which is stalled in the council, where unanimity has not been achieved so far, despite the efforts of several presidencies and my own efforts. it is an important tool to help european small and mediumsized enterprises and i do not want to exclude any way of advancing it, including, mr lehne, the means of enhanced cooperation, which can be used if a sufficient number of member states wish it, and that is what i am going to check. i would like to say that i am ready to support closer cooperation on this issue. ladies and gentlemen, i am increasingly convinced that europe needs a regulatory framework adapted to the changing economic environment, to the needs of today's society. this regulatory framework should make it easier for companies to develop in the union, for the benefit of their shareholders and customers and also their employees. i am aware that some recent initiatives in the area of company law have run into difficulties. that's no reason for me to shut the door and do nothing. we shall therefore prepare this plan, in the spirit i have just indicated, in a fairly complete and fairly precise manner. that is why i am also looking forward with great interest to your discussions on your resolution on the future of company law. it will arrive at the right time to inform our work and give more solidity, and no doubt also ambition, to the action plan which i shall present to you in a few months' time.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. recently, the debate on europe has focused on how best to get out of the economic crisis - necessarily. savings and financial responsibility have been pitted against measures to stimulate growth. in political rhetoric, i think, unfortunately, that very often we miss the fundamental question, which is: how can we ensure the development and prosperity of the eu beyond the crisis? as we know, prosperity does not come from nowhere. it can only happen when people in creativity create goods and services. one of the most important things we can do in the policy arena to create jobs and growth is to break down barriers to trade and to break down barriers to entrepreneurship and trade in general and to ensure that entrepreneurs and innovators can devote their creativity to developing their businesses. this is precisely what today's resolution is about. there are positive reforms in european company law and i would like to thank commissioner michel barnier for this good proposal. these are important steps to strengthen competitiveness, especially of smes in europe. we must dare to keep alive the vision of a europe beyond the crisis: fewer barriers to trade, but more simple crossborder corporate law regulations. i would like to join my colleague, klaus-heiner lehne, in urging the commission to look at this carefully and to come back with further strong proposals along these lines.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. we need to reform european company law. the fragmentation of european company and tax law today creates the situation that it is primarily member states that appear to compete in the european market, rather than companies competing with each other for customers. we also need to correct the situation where companies use this fragmented legislation for extensive tax planning. we know from the discussion on the audit and transparency directives that many member states and companies have strongly resisted project-based auditing and instead focused on reporting their investments on a national basis. it creates very high risks of assets being moved from the european union to tax havens in third countries and this is a situation that cannot be remedied mainly because of the resistance of the member states. i am particularly concerned that the council of ministers' reactions to parliament's proposals are generally poor. we have seen in connection with the transaction tax and the consolidated tax base that as soon as parliament takes a decision in the right direction, the council of ministers tries to prevent it. i am naturally wondering how we can remedy this from the parliament's side and what the commission can do to make the council of ministers stop its contradictions.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr jános áder, commissioner john dalli, the danish presidency and all the other rapporteurs from the various political groups for the good cooperation. it has been important for my group to maintain and, preferably, strengthen the protection of people and the environment when we are now revising this directive. i think we have succeeded in that ambition. all seveso installations will be required under seveso iii to develop a major accident prevention policy (mapp) to be implemented through a safety management system. this is the case unless member states decide otherwise on the basis of a risk analysis. this is a step forward. the agreement strengthens the requirements for internal and external rescue plans, the requirements for member states to carry out inspections, the requirements to take account of 'domino effects' - i.e. external factors which may aggravate the accident - and the information to the public is somewhat improved. certain information on the activities shall always be available electronically, including for the activities belonging to the lower security classification. but my group would have liked to go a little further in terms of protecting the environment and people by extending the scope of the directive. we would also like to improve the information available to the public. it is also not optimal that ordinary legislation will now be required to change the criteria governing which activities are covered by seveso iii. but since the council could not accept to change this by means of delegated acts, this had to be the solution. on the whole, we think this is a good agreement and we will vote for it tomorrow.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank jános áder and wish him every success in his new role as president of hungary. i think it is a pity that the council is not here, because i think they should have tried to defend publicly what they stood for in the negotiations, namely a cynical zero-sum game where re-classification of chemicals does not lead to increased protection, but you have a zero-sum game on the number of plants you want to have covered by the directive instead of looking at the health benefits and the protection against accidents. it was a shame that they had that attitude. in the end, however, we got an agreement that actually works better in many ways, as åsa westlund and others have commented. it was particularly important that we did not exclude whole categories of chemicals which the council initially wanted. however, a number of tasks remain for the commission, including the investigation of the insurance requirement. i think it is very important that the commission now address this. it is not possible that the costs should be overwhelmed in general when these companies are not able to keep their facilities intact, clean and tidy, but they have to insure against it. it shouldn't be the taxpayers' burden.
for the gue/ngl group. president. - the debate is closed. i am very pleased that, as my colleague said, we will adopt tomorrow a joint resolution expressing our support for the work of the un against female genital mutilation and stating that this is a totally unacceptable form of violence against women. i would like to stress that the fight against female genital mutilation, both in europe and globally, must go hand in hand with increased efforts to increase equality between women and men at all levels of society. it is also about strengthening women's sexual and reproductive rights and women's right to control their own bodies and their own sexuality. in europe, we should be careful not to single out certain cultures or groups, but instead work to empower girls and women throughout society, both in majority and minority groups. but targeted action against fgm is also necessary, in cooperation with women's organisations and other key actors. finally, i would like to emphasize that in this resolution we are clearly and once again asking the commission to present a proposal for an eu strategy against violence against women, because with such a coherent approach it is possible to take effective and forceful eu action to combat female genital mutilation in europe.
madam president, i would like to thank you. female genital mutilation is something so horrible that you can hardly find words. up to 3 million women are affected every year. there are over 8,000 women a day, 240 women every hour, or 5 women this minute that i have at my disposal for this speech. it's hard to imagine the pain of this. the statistics are extremely gloomy. 180,000 girls in europe are reportedly at risk of being subjected to this barbarity. it is high time the world took action to ban fgm globally. this should be the number one priority of the common foreign policy in the field of human rights. that is also the aim of this resolution. many of us who signed the resolution were part of the vagina monologues which was staged here in the european parliament earlier this spring. this is further evidence of how the fight against this abuse reaches across party lines, across countries and beyond ideologies. it is time to put an end to this barbarism.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, on the contrary, we cooperated quite well. no, i'll speak swedish, of course. my starting point for working on this case was to protect children and to protect vulnerable consumers. we have been able to simplify the rules to some extent. i am most pleased with the restrictions on advertising breast milk substitutes for children, and i would also like to see support for our amendment with even stricter rules on the use of pesticides. the most dangerous pesticides we produce cannot possibly be used to produce agricultural products for the production of baby food. it is unreasonable and i hope we will get support for it, but the original proposal also tighten the rules a little. i also think it is good that we are removing unnecessary special categories of food, and i hope that the commission, the council and parliament will find a good solution so that we are not only helping gluten intolerant people but also those who are intolerant to soya and milk proteins. we can then have a comprehensive legislation to protect all consumers. i would like to thank all those involved for the very good cooperation we have had in working on this case.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i share the view of many of my colleagues that this is important legislation to protect particularly vulnerable consumers in the market. that is why i also think it is good that we include gluten in this legislation. it also makes it easier for those who are allergic to gluten to travel in europe and find the food they need. i would also like to say that i would have voted for amendment no 84 by mr schlyter, but i will not do so because of the compromise we have with the other groups, which also involves stricter regulation of pesticides. i shall also be voting for amendment no 86. since esther de lange thinks that you have to have had small children recently to be able to vote on this, i can say that i have two children, and i have both breastfed them and given them both breastmilk substitute 1 and breastmilk substitute 2. i know how similar the packaging looks. why else are they almost identical, in that the number looks almost the same and they have the same colors? because they want to get away from this ban on advertising for newborn milk by advertising their next product, namely number 2. it is just a way for the market to circumvent the ban we have and this shows that we must extend this ban. i've even bought the wrong product by mistake myself, so they're very similar today.
mr president, i would like to thank you. in fact, i was talking earlier somewhat simplistically about this whole thing with growth milk, supplementary feeding and breast milk substitution and so on. there is also a category 3, and that is why we need a broad ban on advertising, otherwise category 3, which also has the same packaging, could also mislead consumers. and besides, it shouldn't be called "growth milk" or anything else, it should be called "dried cow's milk with additives" because that's what it is and that's what it should be called. and it's not good if we have a special category for sports or meal replacements. both should be covered by the ordinary health promotion legislation and that is why we in the verts/ale group have proposed that we should remove it, as well as the investigation on sports milk, and instead have it as the ordinary health promotion legislation. there's a lot of very frivolous sports drink marketing going on these days.
mr president, the green group asked for several split votes, the following ones: amendment no 11, amendment no 12, amendment nos 20 and 22. additionally separate votes on amendment nos 26, 36, 46, 71 and 82. they all concern the same issue that we have now lost, so i propose that we vote all of this en bloc. if one votes ‘yes’ one is supporting the committee and saying that very low calorie diet foods should be included as a special category. if one votes ‘no’, then one is saying that these would be better dealt with in the health claims regulation. in that way we can save a lot of time and effort.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the áder report because of the obligations arising for operators concerning safety, prevention and planning rules, and the right to information and involvement that creates for the citizens. moreover, the inclusion of additional substances in the newly established category of harmful dermal toxic substances is undoubtedly a step towards improved prevention of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances. more steps definitely need to be taken in terms of safety at work for all the employees of these establishments and the public, so we would like the commission to come up with stricter safety rules, and we would like to see all the substances included in those rules, and their extension to more establishments, as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report because it represents a simplification and a clear improvement on existing rules. there have been concerns that gluten intolerant and allergic people will not have the same protection as the original proposal was to lift it from this legislation. i feel confident in this because it is beyond doubt that the protection of these groups will not be diminished. it is important that we have harmonised legislation throughout the eu in this area and a common list of what may be included in the products covered by the legislation. one issue that has been debated is the use of pesticides in the production of these foods. the environment party wanted to ban the use of these and also the presence of trace elements from them. i think that is both impossible to control and would create other risks. pesticides are used to keep our food safe, and of course we should use as little of them as possible. but there's a reason they're used. i am glad that we won that battle and that we are maintaining and clarifying the rules that exist today.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the resolution because it puts the real economy and the single market at the centre as a driver for growth and jobs. strong leadership, better enforcement of legislation, increased transparency and fewer administrative barriers are needed, especially in times of crisis. it is important that the 12 priority actions of the single market act are implemented before the end of the year, and i welcome the commission's follow-up with an single market act 2 by the autumn. in particular, the services directive needs to be properly implemented and we need to take advantage of the untapped growth potential of e-commerce and the digital single market. i also advocate greater mobility with the recognition of professional qualifications and i am committed to simplified, flexible and clear rules for public procurement. i also welcome the commission's strong focus on retail and follow up my report on a more efficient and fairer retail sector with an action plan as early as this autumn (http://www.europarl.europa.eu/sides/getdoc.do?type=ta&reference=p7-ta-2011-0307&language=en). i voted against a 28th european social security system.
in writing. − joint resolution rc-b7 -0304/2012 against female genital mutilation - vote on 14/06/2012 i am particularly happy that the european parliament has adopted so unanimously, with no votes against, the joint resolution against female genital mutilation. it is important that the ep stood united and strongly called for a end to fgm. each year some three millions girls around the world are at risk from fgm, some 180.000 of them in europe! these figures are scaring for such a barbaric tradition that causes irreparable physical and psychological damages to the girls, without any medical justification. even if we must respect tradition and cultures, they should never be an excuse for committing violence against women and violating the universally recognised human rights. we need to give a strong message to the united nations, member states and the european commission to do whatever they can to penalise people carrying out fgm and to stop this horrible violence against women.
in writing. − the resolution on breast implants proposes that breast implant surgeries be registered in the eu in the form of a mandatory national register in each member state. the register will make reporting mandatory for all clinics while patients will have the right to consent to the entry of their personal data. the purpose of the registers is to allow the exchange of information, for example, in the event of serious defects in the implants. we swedish social democrats want to emphasize the voluntary nature of the register. it is thus up to each individual patient to decide whether he or she wants to be included in the register. that premise enabled us to vote for the resolution as a whole.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i welcome the revision of the regulation and i would like to thank jürgen creutzmann for his good cooperation with us as shadow rapporteur. many of the goods covered by this regulation are intended for direct consumption, such as food, medicinal products and toys. in some cases, they can be directly dangerous to health and life. the s&d group has therefore taken as its starting point the safeguarding of the internal market for the benefit of our consumers. for example, we have excluded goods imported for private use and parallel imports from the scope of the regulation. in the imco committee we supported the idea of including goods in transit in the regulation. unfortunately, information has emerged since the vote which has given us knowledge that access to legal generic medicines for developing countries may be impeded by this decision. that is why my s&d colleagues and i in the imco, juri and inta committees have decided to table a number of amendments to ensure that access to generic medicines in developing countries is not impeded by this decision. the main amendment is to exclude goods in transit from the scope of the directive, except where there is clear and convincing evidence that they are destined for the eu market. as a consequence of our position on generics, we will also vote against jürgen creutzman's proposal for a simplified procedure for all types of infringing goods, as this simplified procedure should not apply to goods other than branded counterfeit and pirated goods, otherwise we risk exposing generics once again to difficulties in transit. at present, neither the commission's proposal nor the imco report has received sufficient attention, and the risk of seizure and/or destruction of legal generic medicines is at the frontier. the proposal therefore poses a serious risk that patients in developing countries will not continue to have access to quality, legitimate generic medicines. the socialist group cannot help to make access to generic medicines, which are a lifeline for many patients, more difficult.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, we all agree that counterfeit goods are a bad thing and something that we do not want in the european union, but i would remind all colleagues that we already have lots of legislation on that and that we already have the customs regulation. the new thing in this report is that it extends the responsibility of customs from – as the situation is now – stopping counterfeit goods (that is, goods with a falsified trade mark) to handling all sorts of intellectual property including, for instance, patents. that is not something that the customs office is equipped to do. patent conflicts are incredibly complex; we even have a special court structure to sort out whether a patent is infringing or not. it is not something a customs official can do just like that. this of course leads to problems, in particular for generic medicines. the organisations that are working on access to medicines are very concerned with this report, and they say that, if it goes through in the way it is drafted now, it will be bad for access to medicines. but i would also raise another issue: the focus on small consignments. i think that has a great chance of really harming confidence in e-trade, which is something we want more of. an ordinary customer who orders a smartphone and has it confiscated and destroyed by the customs office because there is a patent conflict between samsung and apple will never understand why that happened and will completely lose confidence in e-trade. i think this report needs to be seriously redrafted if we are to accept it.
madam president, i would like to thank you. thank you very much for a good report on an important subject. i would like to raise the issue of chemicals and other foreign substances in the water. in my home town of stockholm, people were warned not to wet the floors because the waste water they got in their bucket contains so many dangerous chemicals that when you pour the water into the toilet seat, or wherever you pour it, the sewage treatment plant simply cannot handle the water properly. it's too toxic. it means that all around us, in the dust and everywhere, there are many dangerous chemicals, and those chemicals we need to take responsibility for, to get rid of these products so that we can have clean water in the future. of course, better cleaning can be demanded and certainly needs to be done, but the most important thing - and this report also shows this - is to tackle pollution at source, i.e. to remove dangerous chemicals and, for example, silver in clothes, which are washed out and end up in our water instead.
the rapporteur. - madam president! - what is it? commissioners and colleagues! it has been an intense but fantastic job to bring about this animal welfare strategy which i must say is well balanced. the shadow rapporteurs have done a very good job, our staff have done a fantastic job and we have managed to get along with everyone from animal welfare organisations to farmers and so on. there are still some sensitive points in this discussion, and one of them is the legal milestones, where we have concluded that the commission needs the possibility of monitoring the member states during a transitional period. remember what happened to the chicken cages? it was a ten-year transitional period, and the commission could not do anything until 2 january this year when the ten years had already passed. there must be some points where we can check and question what the member states are doing to implement legislation with transitional periods. it's these milestones that are a little controversial. the other thing that's very controversial -- and we've had many, many questions about this -- is the deaf-mute slaughter. many people want us to label the meat as unprocessed or untreated. i have to say, personally, i think it's the wrong way to go. first of all, let us make sure that the religious exception, which is very small and very precise, is not abused. i think that anyone who abuses this exception will never write on the slaughtered body that this is an animal that was slaughtered without anesthesia. the third piece of controversy is the domesticated wildlife, the stray dogs and stray cats. it's a problem in many countries, and it's very problematic how to deal with it. in our document we place the responsibility primarily on the member states and on local and regional authorities. we also ask that all domestic animals, i.e. dogs and cats, etc., be marked and registered. but the most important thing in this proposal is a general animal welfare law which is similar in structure to the general food law. this law covers all animals in captivity, that is, all animals except those in the wild. it shall contain clear definitions of what good animal welfare means and who is responsible for it. there has to be a dissemination of knowledge, and there has to be - to counter the counter-proposal that is about cloning - a specification in the law that no breeding should take place so that the animal cannot live a natural life, and this applies to everything from cows to dogs. finally, a general law and general rules provide free and fair competition for all farmers throughout the union, and the last point is very important.
mr president, europe stands before one of the most difficult challenges ever: to get out of the worst economic crisis of the post-war period and at the same time take the european project forward. this is not an easy task; if it is to succeed, the eu and its member states must start conducting a more balanced economic policy – single-minded austerity is not enough. the eu must also seriously attack the problem that for decades we have set aside insufficient resources for growth-enhancing investments. therefore i am very happy with the broad support for my report on project bonds, to be issued tomorrow. i am also happy about the european council conclusions on the compact for growth and jobs and the detailed guidelines for the union’s own actions and budget in this context. eur 55 billion will be devoted to growth-enhancing measures in the current period. however, there is still a question mark: to have concrete effects on the ground, the eu budget will need payments. these eur 120 billion, with very concrete proposals for eur 55 billion, must lead to concrete projects with rapid effects on jobs and growth, particularly in the most vulnerable regions in europe. but for that to happen, the council and the member states must change their rigid position on the payments level in the european union budget, because otherwise – unfortunately – this will be another round of empty promises.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of information centres for the protection of the environment. we are in favour of macro-regional strategies as a tool for promoting the eu's territorial cohesion and development. however, we do not support the calls to raise the thresholds for the minimum rates for islands. we also do not believe that the scope of the minimum periods should be extended to the transport sector, or to the agricultural and fisheries sectors.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the transport of dangerous goods by rail. however, we do not believe that a common railway area based solely on deregulation and competition will solve the problems we face. bad examples of too harsh deregulation of the railways in, for example, sweden and other countries show this. we do not believe that further opening up of, for example, domestic passenger traffic is in the interests of europe. what sweden and other european countries need is increased investment in infrastructure and a common traveller perspective. addressing cross-border capacity problems requires new tracks, reduced sensitivity to interference and more modern electrification through new technologies.
in writing. - we moderates voted today against the report on road transport recorders. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the automatic recording of location data by a global navigation satellite system (gnss). from a privacy perspective, we question the usefulness of being able to locate drivers around europe. the proposal also provides for the use of similar technologies by companies in europe. many companies have now developed their own good concepts for tachographs, and we are concerned that the eu is locking itself into some particular technology and that the development of the companies' products has been unnecessarily costly. we are also against the proposal to introduce driving licences with a driver card chip to be connected to a tachograph. this would be an unnecessarily expensive and bureaucratic change.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that parliament voted to simplify procedures for customs authorities and to strengthen customs controls on the enforcement of intellectual property rights. it is important to promote trade, while at the same time we should ensure that dangerous goods do not enter the eu market. in addition, pirated and counterfeit goods impose huge costs on eu businesses every year. i therefore welcome the clarification of issues such as the cost of storage and destruction, the handling of goods in transit and simplified procedures for small consignments. it is important to emphasize in particular that we have succeeded in clearly pushing through the fact that the regulation should not apply to goods of a non-commercial nature contained in travellers' personal luggage.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'e-infrastructure'. the purpose of ecall is to make it easier for emergency services to arrive quickly at the scene of an accident by means of computerisation. it's supposed to be able to track cars that get into traffic accidents. in the event of an accident, the nearest emergency centre in europe will be notified. but the service is already on the market, several car brands are already producing cars with this service. we therefore believe that the eu does not need to decide on this. the installation of ecall would lead to increased costs for drivers, as cars would become more expensive to manufacture. it should be up to the individual motorist to decide whether he wants this service in his car and thus also pay for a more expensive car. from a privacy point of view, this also means that drivers can be monitored. if you as a consumer choose this system, it is a voluntary contract between the customer and the company. but if the eu decides to do so, you are forced to be monitored, something we moderates felt we could not support.
member of the commission. − madam president, honourable members, tomorrow, you will have to make a choice. it is an important choice for at least two reasons. firstly, because the debate over the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement has involved much discussion of its relationship with the fundamental rights and freedoms of european citizens. secondly, because of the signal this vote will send to our trading partners and to the more than 120 million workers that work in europe’s innovative, manufacturing and creative sectors. they are dependent for their livelihoods on the effective enforcement of intellectual property rights, in europe and across the rest of the world. the commission has asked the european court of justice for its opinion on whether the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement is compatible with the treaties and, in particular, with our charter of fundamental rights. we have done this because these questions are crucial for those who took to the streets over acta earlier this year. we share their view that these concerns must be addressed. that is why the acta agreement should be the subject of the most careful scrutiny and deliberation. in this respect, i believe that it would have been preferable for parliament to wait until we know what the court thinks before voting. but that is not where we are today. tomorrow you will only be able to choose to vote ‘yes’ or ‘no’ to the agreement. let me then just say that my considered view, as a lifelong supporter of human rights and fundamental freedoms, is that there is nothing to fear in this agreement. acta is not an attack on our liberties, it is a defence of our livelihoods. this is because we do not have to modify any part of our internal legislation, the so-called acquis communautaire. what is legal today in the european union will remain legal once acta is ratified. and what is illegal today will still remain illegal with acta. nothing changes in the eyes of the law. and since our freedoms are not threatened by our current laws, our freedoms will not be threatened by acta. this is also – i might add – the view of the european parliament’s own legal service. i hope that you will bear these considerations in mind. economic consequences are the second reason the vote is important. we all agree that counterfeiting and piracy are a serious problem. they risk undermining one of europe’s most significant competitive advantages over other regions of the world, namely our knowledge-based and creative industries. acta is designed to extend the tools for enforcement of intellectual property rights that have been so successful in europe – and which this parliament has always supported – to other countries as well. no more. no less. so, as you come to make your choice about how to vote tomorrow, you should also make no mistake: a vote against acta will be a setback for the protection of our intellectual property rights around the world. neither are there any quick fixes for its rejection. those who think that we can come back any time soon with a revised agreement or with a new treaty have been misled. what is true is that, if parliament votes this treaty down, the commission will continue to wait for the opinion of the court and study it closely. why? because citizens have raised concerns over its potential impact on fundamental rights, because many of you have raised similar questions – so let us get some answers. i consider it my obligation, my responsibility as european commissioner – indeed the responsibility of us all – to ask for clarity from europe’s highest court. furthermore, we will also look at how the debate on intellectual property rights evolves over the coming months. there are legitimate issues to be discussed and clarified about some rules on intellectual property rights in the digital environment. for instance, the definition of ‘commercial scale’ and what sharing information means in relation to the challenges one faces with respect to the protection of intellectual property. i hope that these discussions will be able to happen in their proper context – which is in debates about the substantive law of the european union, not about international enforcement. besides the european parliament, the commission would also discuss the outcome of the court referral with other signatories of acta and would then consider further steps to take. as europeans, i believe that we all share profound respect for individual freedom. but i also know that freedom needs a framework. what we are doing both with acta and with european legislation is making sure that the framework strikes the right balance. it is a delicate task and we must proceed carefully.
the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal. - madam president! - what is it? thank you to all my colleagues and to all those listening out in europe. for those of us who have been involved in the debate on information policy for some time, the decision which this house is to take tomorrow is a symbol not only of what is right and reasonable in the information age, but it is also a crucial issue for european democracy. communication and culture build societies, so it is no wonder that acta became the issue that created the pan-european debate that has captured our attention and made many people think about how we as a society really want to deal with communication. it was in this question that i and many others in my political party, the pirate party, found the basis of our political commitment. the problem is, nothing changes with the deal. we need more access to culture and to communication. how do we really want to relate to other people? how do we build community and intimacy with other people? all of us who are thinking about these issues and who are involved in building these communities hope that tomorrow's decision will be taken by a strengthened parliament - a parliament that listens to all european citizens when they speak with one voice. for our societies must be built on the values that our citizens have. it is clear that the values of citizens mean that communication and cultural exchange are a priority and an opportunity for the future, and that is what my group and i in this parliament, together with many other colleagues from other political groups, will be confirming at the votes tomorrow.
for the ppe group. president. - the debate is closed. tomorrow we are voting on the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement, and let me first of all be clear about what i and the ppe group think about this. we need international cooperation to defend intellectual property rights, to stop counterfeit medicines and car parts, to stop infringement of european patents and piracy of european products, and to safeguard european competitiveness. the acta is a good basis for that work. but it would be irresponsible to vote on acta tomorrow to take a position before we have all the cards on the table and before the european court of justice has ruled on the agreement. that's not a serious and responsible way to handle this issue. to all those who object to waiting for the court, i would like to ask: why would you do that? what is it about the european parliament that you are so afraid of the court of justice saying that you have to vote before the highest court of the european union has spoken? tomorrow's vote is not just about acta. it is about patient safety, research, aviation safety, competitiveness, the environment, safety at work, etc. for these areas are plagued by piracy, patent infringement and counterfeiting. voting no tomorrow therefore carries a great responsibility. it may solve the conflict over acta, but it is not an answer to the problems and challenges facing europe. voting no is not the status quo either. it weakens europe's voice in the world. how can we convince india to take strong action against counterfeit medicines if we have refused european or international cooperation based on our own legislation? that those in this room who don't want intellectual property rights or don't think we should protect intellectual property rights are voting against acta before we have a court ruling, that doesn't surprise me. it is not surprising that those who do not want europe to fight climate change do not want the kyoto protocol either. but i do not think that the majority of us members of parliament hold that view, and that is why i hope that you will not want to die on acta before we have all the cards on the table. why would you do that? we need international cooperation on intellectual property rights to defend european jobs, consumers, patients and so on. that is why we will not reject acta tomorrow. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
answer the blue card. it would have been nice if you had also answered the question of why you are in such a hurry to hold this vote. why can't you wait to hear whether acta is compatible with the treaty? i have listened to the citizens and the objections i have received mainly concern privacy and fundamental civil liberties and rights, and that is what the commission has asked questions about. i think that we are showing the question the respect it deserves by waiting for the answer. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
blue-card answer. – madam president, i am trying to be perfectly honest with mr leichtfried. i said at the very outset we need international cooperation, and acta is a good basis for that. however, the difference between you, mr leichtfried, and me is that i want to listen to the highest juridical court before i take this vote. i think that is acting seriously. i think the question would actually be the same to you. what are you afraid of? what are you afraid that the european court of justice will say which makes it so desperately important for you to vote before we have heard what they say? that is actually my question.
blue-card question. – mr lange, you say that the biggest infringer of iprs is not a part of acta and that this is an argument against this treaty. are you against the kyoto protocol, seeing that the biggest emitters of co2 – china and the us – are not a part of the kyoto protocol? acta actually covers a bigger part of world trade than the kyoto protocol covers of world emissions of co2 so, by the same logic, are you against the kyoto protocol?
blue-card question. – i just wonder if my dear colleague has read the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement. if he has not, i would like to offer him a copy, because i actually happen to have one. that was my only question. has he read it and, if he has not, does he want a copy of the agreement?
blue-card question. – i would just like to say that i fully agree with the fact that an interpretative protocol would have helped get rid of some confusion. i wonder if you would like to join the epp in voting to wait for the european court of justice, because that might give the commission the possibility to do exactly that?
mr president, i would like to thank you. we need to protect intellectual property rights, but acta is not the answer. although much of the criticism of acta is based on myths and misconceptions about early drafts of the negotiations, it is clear that the agreement has significant shortcomings. when we probably vote no tomorrow, i do not see it as the end, but as the beginning of a new effort to get really good protection of intellectual property rights, but we have to do it sectorally and sectorally so that we can ensure respect for intellectual property rights around the world, and at the same time safeguard human rights and freedoms. we must show our citizens that it is possible to create these sectoral agreements with full transparency from citizens and in dialogue with civil society. as the ancient romans said, acta est fabula, the play is over.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a contract that is ambiguous and unclear is a bad contract, regardless of what the court thinks of it, and therefore we do not need to wait for it. the little that is clear is that the rights of companies are being defended over those of citizens. this is true both for us in europe and for the poor who are waiting in vain for legal generic medicines seized in the eu. but if the best defense for a deal is that it changes nothing, then the deal is worth nothing. de gucht, you say this treaty does not threaten our freedoms but defends our livelihood. the problem is that the "we" you're talking about are old companies with old business models. what i am talking about are the millions of people who have committed themselves to acta, and it is their rights that we are defending by voting no tomorrow. it is democracy that makes the european parliament say no, not new facts. but i warn you, the fight is not over. the bad bits of acta will reappear as monsters from a bad zombie movie in other laws and initiatives. that's why we need a major change in intellectual property law to defend the right to grow culture, not profit.
blue-card question. – i think you are a professor in constitutional law, mr moreira, and as such and as chair of the committee on international trade, would you agree that it would be advisable to wait for the european court of justice before we actually take our vote?
blue-card question. – mr cortés lastra, the main reason that most copyrighting nations did not want to take part in acta negotiations was because they want to keep on infringing copyrights. but if you think that is an important argument against it, do you think that the fact that the usa and china are not a part of the kyoto protocol is a good argument for voting against the kyoto protocol as well?
mr president, we are going from one heated debate, acta, to another heated debate, acaa. time and again, we have been postponing and obstructing the acaa, using different filibusters and trying to do everything we can not to do what we know is needed. the only consequence is that we are postponing something that would help patients in europe, that would give more choice in terms of medicines and that would deliver greater competition and lower prices, even though everybody here knows it is about standards and that there are no medicines produced in the occupied territories. so how could this question even be relevant in this context? even if there were medicines produced there, you know that these standards should apply to israeli-produced medicines and to imported medicines, no matter where they come from. the israeli government has a clear commitment to applying these standards. that is what it is all about. but sadly this house has managed to hijack this question and make it into another part of the israeli-palestinian conflict to the detriment of patients throughout europe. that is a shame. remember that we had an agreement and a debate on an agreement with palestine – quite recently actually – and at that time we had the courage not to do what we are doing here. we judged it on its own merits and approved it. we should do the same thing right here and right now. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – ms de keyser, i am happy to hear that you have read the agreement and know that it is about medicines. but again, even though it is about medicines you acknowledge the fact that there are no medicines produced there. if there were other products and other agreements, let us judge those products and agreements on their merits and not try to kidnap this and say we cannot do this even though we know it is right.
blue-card question to david martin. – mr president, it is fascinating because i have heard the phrase ‘it’s political’ so many times today, first in connection with acta and now with acaa. the fascinating thing is that when we discussed acta, the fact that it was a political decision was an argument to vote as soon as possible. but here with acaa the fact that it is political is now a reason to prolong and obstruct everything as long as possible. but what i wanted to ask mr david martin is this – and, david, as you know, i really respect you: if you think signing now is such a bad thing to do and that we should use it as a political tool, why did you not say the same thing when we had the vote on the palestinian agreement if you think it is important to use this as a tool?
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. financial exclusion is a big problem. not being able to make normal banking transactions at a reasonable cost is disabling in today's society. millions of european consumers are currently faced with this problem. it doesn't have to be that way, and it shouldn't be that way. it is therefore right that we now ask the commission to present a legislative proposal giving all consumers in the eu the right to open and use a basic payment account. it's a small reform that would help a lot of people. three aspects are particularly important. first, all normal day-to-day transactions should be included in such an account. secondly, the legislation needs to contain a ceiling on the annual cost of basic payment services. without such a ceiling, the cost would likely skyrocket. the new law would not be much help then. if the service became too expensive, many consumers would also not be able to afford to use it in a normal way. third, the legislation should oblige all payment service providers to offer the basic payment account. this avoids the social stigmatisation that could arise if commercially less attractive consumers were to be locked into a single payment service provider. so far, the member states have not done their homework. if this trend continues, we expect a rapidly delivered bill. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure.)
ask for the blue card. my question to my sympathetic colleague olle ludvigsson relates to the wording you mentioned it yourself at a reasonable cost . in the discussion we had in the imco committee, there was a suggestion from your party friends that it would be free to get this type of account. do you think the wording now used in the text, 'at a reasonable cost', is acceptable?
answer the blue card. there have been various views, and it is on this basis that we have agreed that it should either be free of charge or at a reasonable cost. that's the deal we made.
mr president, even though i thought i got your message that i should not ask for the floor, i will do it anyway. normally i agree with kay swinburne but in these circumstances i do not. i think that it is actually a fundamental right to have a basic bank account. our appeal to the commissioner today is that these fundamental rights have to be protected. if recommendations and self-regulation are not enough, we need legislation at european level. i hope that we will get that.
mr president, i would like to thank you. cyprus now has a wise and well-balanced programme for its presidency and i wish you very much success in its implementation. i remind all of us that the eu institutions have promised citizens that the common european asylum system will be in place by the end of this year. cyprus now has a great responsibility, and the whole development is in the hands of cyprus. i have great confidence in the cypriot presidency's ability to achieve this, but we must intensify our cooperation immediately. i am the rapporteur for the dublin ii regulation and we are very close to an agreement, but i invite further intensive cooperation negotiations now so that we can really deliver what we have promised our citizens. as regards other important issues on which we are close to historic agreements, i would also like to mention the european patent. we are one hair away from being able to offer europe's innovators and inventors, after almost four decades of negotiations, a lower-cost eu patent that can be defended in a single court. there are still some issues to be resolved, and i believe that this will require ingenuity, determination and flexibility on the part of all parties. if cyprus succeeds in achieving important cornerstones for europe under its presidency, we will in future think of cyprus as a small but important country which meant a great deal to europe at a critical and important time. i would like to welcome you, mr president. i wish you good success in your presidency.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr president! these are difficult times to take over the presidency. our european community is in shambles. economic cooperation is being called into question and nationalism and protectionism are growing strong. you have, mr president, many important matters to attend to until christmas, not least in the financial field. the citizens of the eu must regain confidence in the banks and the financial sector in general, but we need a balanced approach, mr president. i do not share your one-sided condemnation of the market economy. instead, you should be targeting your bulls-eye at irresponsible politicians across europe - there may even be some here. the great danger in the europe that is now being formed is that we will have an a and a b team: those who have the single currency and those who do not have the euro. europe has been divided for decades by an iron curtain. mr president, let us not create a divided europe again. we know what that can lead to, as mr barroso reminded us yesterday. hopefully, history has taught us something. mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that i find it unfortunate that half of cyprus is not represented here today. the eu wants to see a united cyprus and you, mr president, have a great responsibility here.
mr president, the values of personal freedom – open societies and open markets – are the grounds for prosperity but also for the stability and growth we need. i think that wherever this has been neglected we have seen failures or disasters. this must be the common point of departure for the work of the presidency of cyprus. i think it is important to state that, where we have had a market economy, we have seen an increase in prosperity all over the world and in europe. you can certainly say one thing about the crisis economies in europe: increased spending and deficits have not helped. if that had been the solution, we would have no problems. that is one thing. the other is that they are certainly not suffering from too much market economy – it is bureaucracy, regulations, monopolies and licences that are hindering growth. i think it is one of our most important tasks and duties to ensure that we can now achieve a fully-organised internal market opening up to entrepreneurship, investments and new jobs. that is the political course that can make europe stronger again, and that must be the task for your presidency. this means that we need to push forward the reform of the internal market, which we have not achieved as we should have done. the european union is the world’s biggest economy but still not the world’s biggest market. we need to proceed with the clarity and stability of banks, and with enlargement. that is the main task for this presidency. i look forward to seeing the results. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – thank you for giving me the opportunity to develop my message. first of all, monopolies of any kind are bad and harmful to the economy – i hope you agree with me on that – all monopolies, public monopolies as well as private monopolies. one of the main aims of a good and well functioning market economy is to get rid of that and open up opportunities for everyone, to offer new alternatives. my second important point is that the market economy is social, because everywhere you get investments, new growth, new jobs, you will see social security. that is exactly what ludwig erhard once said and that is the way we should proceed.
mr president, welcome to the european parliament. we look forward to the cyprus presidency. as leader of the socialist group in the committee on budgets, i am, like anne e. jensen, primarily interested in the presidency's plans for the negotiations on the next long-term budget of the european union, the financial framework. it is becoming increasingly clear that some strong net-paying countries have formed a pact to reduce the eu budget for the future. their ideas of economic policy seem to be based on austerity as the only way out of the crisis. they believe that richer member states should not support poorer countries with problems through the eu budget, as they are considered to be mismanaging. on the other hand, there are also a number of member states whose perspective is closer to mine. they realise that the eu budget cannot be compared with national budgets dominated by public consumption such as social transfers, public employees' salaries, etc. the eu budget is a budget for solidarity and investment, a necessary strategic part of a common european path towards [...] a strategically crucial role in linking europe, completing the internal market in areas such as research, innovation and infrastructure. so my question to you, mr. president, is this: what is your strategy for getting these member states with such different perspectives to agree on an offensive vision of the eu for the future and thus lay the foundations for an agreement with the european parliament?
rapporteur. − mr president, this bilateral agreement is very necessary although not perfect. by joining the wto, russia has committed to gradually reducing or eliminating its existing export duties on a list of raw materials. however, not all the essential goods are covered. for that reason, the eu has negotiated this agreement. a key achievement is russia’s commitment not to impose new or additional export duties. in the event it would like to do so, russia should consult the european commission at least two months in advance. there are also a few shortcomings. firstly, the wording in the agreement does not make it binding enough. secondly, no bilateral dispute settlement mechanism is foreseen. there are not too many tools for the eu to enforce this agreement if russia does not fulfil its commitments. therefore, this agreement should be seen as a temporary solution until it is replaced by a legally binding agreement included in the new partnership and cooperation agreement. let me conclude by saying that the agreement is an important step towards stabilising the trade relationship between the eu and russia. it does not eliminate unpredictable behaviour from russia, but nevertheless will improve trade relations. i call on you, dear colleagues, to support the agreement by voting in favour of it.
mr president, under rule 175(2) of the rules of procedure i would like, on behalf of the epp group, to refer this back to the committee on international trade. the reason is quite obvious and should be considered by anybody who wants to treat this agreement seriously. the anti-counterfeiting trade agreement which gives us international cooperation to fight piracy, counterfeit and other ipr infringements is currently being evaluated by the european court of justice. as much of the criticism against this agreement relates to fundamental rights – exactly what the court has been asked by the commission to look into and assess – we would not like to take the final vote in plenary before we have had their view on this important topic. therefore the epp group would like to refer this back to the committee on international trade.
in writing. − i abstained on the agriculture reports on alignment. these reports align the existing body of agricultural legislation to the new legal reality, which is the system of delegated and implementing acts. reports which use delegated acts are those on which the parliament has a right of veto. although i am opposed to the common agricultural policy, i recognise that the principle of protecting parliament’s right of veto, where it has been legally given (in the lisbon treaty), is a principle that needs to be protected. this principle will reach beyond agricultural reports. because of this, because i do not wish the commission to make decisions in which parliament should co-legislate, i abstained on this report.
in writing. - we have chosen to support this report because we consider the proposed increase in eu payments next year to be reasonable in relation to the eu's existing commitments. to turn a blind eye to these, and to the challenges facing the community, would be irresponsible. the trend of continuously transferring payments to the budget of the following year must be broken. at the same time, however, we have supported the amendment calling for the work of the european parliament to be moved to a single location, and the amendment calling for a thorough examination of the european added value of every investment made. this is especially important in these times when several countries are in economic crisis. we believe, however, that these times call for even more action on the part of the eu, and that the eu must therefore be given sufficient resources to be able to fulfil its commitments. on the contrary, the choice at eu level to 'slow down' would not be the right one.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that animal welfare is important. it goes without saying that we should treat our animals with respect. we will take account of producers and small businesses and not create extra bureaucracy and administrative costs. swedish producers must be able to compete on equal terms and we need a common regulatory framework and raise standards throughout europe. it is important that we have clear common rules which do not mislead producers. the report is important because we need to reduce the use of antibiotics in our livestock farming. in the united states, for example, more antibiotics are used in animals than in humans. if we can have a sustainable environment for our animals, we can also reduce the spread of infection and, in the long run, reduce our dependence on antibiotics. i hope that we will begin to see the seriousness of these problems in the future and i am therefore pleased that the report addresses the link between animal welfare and the spread of infectious and communicable diseases. at the same time, i am glad that the report emphasises the need to implement existing legislation rather than new rules. there are still many countries which have not succeeded in introducing the existing rules, and this creates different conditions for competition in our internal market.
in writing. - we voted in favour of the alternative resolution on animal welfare and animal protection, in which we support the citizens' initiative on a maximum of eight hours of animal transport; however, we oppose the text in the alternative resolution, as well as in the report by the committee on agriculture, which calls for the same animal welfare standards for animals and products imported from third countries as for european products, and for future free trade agreements to be made subject to these conditions.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of animals in the context of the implementation of the directive.
in writing. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. this is because the text of the resolution contains both positive and negative elements. on the one hand, we welcome the reorientation of european crisis management that took place at the summit. the counterproductive austerity policy was then definitively replaced by a more balanced policy line combining budgetary discipline with an offensive commitment to growth and jobs - something we have made strong demands on. in particular, the new growth pact with the capital increase of the eib, the reallocation of the remaining structural funds resources and the pilot phase of the project bonds is an important step in the right direction. the new policy direction now creates opportunities to devise a long-term sustainable solution to the crisis. on the other hand, we are opposed to the writings on the emu report by mr van rompuy, which was discussed at the summit. some of the reforms identified in the report could be valuable in the euro area countries' efforts to establish the single currency. other reforms are doubtful. we also do not believe that the adoption of a new long-term budget should be conditional on a reform of the own resources system.
in writing. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia, which calls for the immediate release of all political prisoners. the resolution stresses the importance of a strong framework for the public finances of the member states and that action should be taken to complete the internal market. these are the two most important components for europe to emerge from the current crisis, and that is why we voted in favour of the resolution. at the same time, we continue to oppose the own resources levies and the various forms of joint debt issuance which also appear in the resolution.
in writing. - i've lowered my voice. the report calls for guaranteeing access to basic payment services for all consumers legally resident in the union. that is a demand i support. but i am opposed to the eu deciding this at supranational level by means of a directive. in this situation, i choose to keep my voice down.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? my colleagues! this title on investment in transeuropean networks, etc., actually obscures the very interesting report on project bonds. maybe it should have come out of the headline, but it doesn't. the economic future of europe is not just about tackling the acute crisis. it is just as much about accelerating the sustainable development of the economy and jobs in the long term and, above all, increasing growth-generating investment, both private and public. the eu's role is crucial here. to bring together the different parts of europe and to develop the potential that is actually being created by 500 million people in a single internal market, we need to be able to make strategic investments: in transport, in modern infrastructure, in the energy sector, in the digital sector, etc. it is absolutely crucial to our success in achieving our goals of smart and sustainable growth for all. the economic crisis is not only a consequence of the banking and financial collapse, but also of the fact that we have had an insufficient level of european investment for a long time. that is why the investment needs are now enormous. in the transport, energy and information technology sectors, the commission estimates the need for eur 1 500 billion by 2020. this is a huge amount of money that the eu cannot mobilise on its own. the majority of the funding is therefore, of course, provided by the private sector, but also by national, regional and local authorities. however, with today's severe restrictions on public budgets, the tightening of capital requirements for banks, etc., we need to find new ways forward. one of these paths is the development of innovative financial instruments, which, with some eu budget support, should be able to attract additional capital. project bonds are one such instrument. the proposal is to enable project companies to issue bonds, which will be more secure and attractive on the market, through eib loans guaranteed by the eu budget. the eu's action should be able to raise the credit rating of these projects so that it becomes interesting for pension funds, for example, to participate. however, it is important to emphasise that these are private bonds issued by project companies, and not eu public bonds. the commission's proposal, which the committee on budgets supports, means that we are reallocating eur 230 million from the eu budget for the 2012-13 project bonds. it is not a lot of money, but the commission expects that this money will be able to mobilise perhaps 15 to 20 times that amount from other actors, and then it will be substantial. that part of the effort is maximised to the amount of the guarantee provided for in the budget, and there will therefore be no increase in eu expenditure. if all goes well, the cost will be zero, but we will help to accelerate growth in europe. but we must remember that project bonds are only one piece of this investment puzzle, where they must be evaluated. i hope that they will be able to develop further in the way that president barroso of the commission, but also, for example, the eu summit and the g20 have pointed out in recent weeks. i would also like to highlight other ideas. i think we should look at whether, in the analysis and evaluation, by improving this proposal, we can reach new types of investors. can we reach smes through, for example, project portfolios? can we help create a more liquid bond market in europe? perhaps we could even think a little more about the question of so-called delors bonds? european project bonds guaranteed by the eu budget? i think we should at least discuss it. finally, a big thank you to all those who have helped to forge this important solution: my colleagues in the committee on budgets, in particular the shadow rapporteurs, the european commission, the european investment bank and last but not least the danish presidency. we now hope that the cypriot presidency will finally be able to bring the matter to a conclusion.
rapporteur. − mr president, colleagues, thank you very much for this enlightening debate. let me just conclude with a few comments. first, on the need for the instrument. insufficient levels of investment are a major problem for europe. this is a structural rather than temporary problem, and the present crisis has made it much more difficult to deal with and to change the situation. that is why we need new additional instruments. what kind of projects will be financed? i agree with mr hoyer; to begin with the focus will probably be on more developed markets. i warmly thank president hoyer for pointing out that a wider perspective may be possible in the future, when the instrument will be able to target other things as well. that is also very important. on criteria, mr turmes and some others have raised the idea of having other kinds of projects, such as renewable energy projects. i am quite open to that. let us have a discussion for the coming multiannual financial framework on a more permanent phase for the financial instruments and project bonds. i am quite open to this idea with regard to the evaluation of this pilot phase. i would say that the main discussion here has been about the risks. i know that some member states, including my own, have been reluctant to accept this initiative but i hope that this debate has reduced their worries. we are not taking any unreasonable risks with taxpayers’ money and we really need this additional effort. do we socialise risk and privatise profits? i would say that with these guarantees we will be able to mobilise resources which otherwise would stay in the coffers or end up in the speculative markets. it is taxpayers who gain the most from such an approach. the risk is strictly limited. there are no contingent liabilities. if we are given a choice between using eur 230 million for grants, which will lead to investments of only eur 230 million, and using eur 230 million as an innovative financial instrument which might mobilise billions, then we will see that the way we are taking now is quite good. i began by thanking colleagues; let me also say a big ‘thank you’ to the committee on budgets. the secretariat there has done a fantastic job, and so has my own office.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, i share your view that rio did not go as far as we had hoped. to me, it's an empty shell. i remember rio 20 years ago when it inspired all of us to take on the problems at the local level. i think that's where we're going again. we can't wait for global leaders to stop listening to corporations and suddenly start acting fast enough. we can only solve the challenges we face if we start from the bottom and work our way up. that people in their everyday lives are beginning to deal with our planet and our economy in a different way. we have a completely unsustainable economy that is built entirely on non-renewable resources, and a massive shift to a green economy does not mean green growth. green growth is an illusion based on completely unrealistic images of resource efficiency. it is absolutely impossible to achieve, and that is why we need another economy that is actually green. the only way to get that is to measure other targets. if you measure only economic activity, that's what you get. if we measure other goals, we get this instead: a better planet. let's go that way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, what is it? the first un conference on environment and sustainable development was held in my home city of stockholm. that was 40 years ago, and a lot has happened since then. today, for example, there is a very broad knowledge and awareness of the environment and sustainable development. roger helmer of the efd group is quite alone in his views, most others are aware that there are very big things happening in the environmental field that we have to deal with. the problem is that the measures we have decided on so far at international or national level have not been able to hold back the rapid development but the continuing increase in environmental and climate pressures. many are disappointed in the rio summit, and i ask the question: what were we thinking? do we think it is possible to create political pressure on long-term survival issues when the economic crisis forces so many people to worry about how to make ends meet in the short term? did we really think we could do this? for that reason, i think the rio meeting has been a wake-up call, because it has clearly linked social justice issues with climate and environmental issues, and we must take that into account in our future work. if we are to move forward, we must always link social justice now with our common survival concerns in the long run.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i am, like many colleagues, depressed that the rio text does not contain more concrete commitments. we know we're already living beyond our means. if everyone in the world lived like a swede, for example, we would consume 3.25 of the globe. obviously, this insight wasn't enough, but we need to be more resource efficient. historically, growth has come largely because we've had cheap raw materials and cheap energy, but that's not going to be able to continue. so it's important for us to show that we can break the link between higher living standards and increased environmental degradation. this can be done today. for example, we know that it is profitable to make energy efficient, and i think it is time for us to show that this is possible. it is possible to live a good life and at the same time live sustainably. that is how we can attract others to the international stage; not by threats or intimidation, but by really showing that it is possible and does not have to involve major social problems. on the contrary, it is the solution to many social problems.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, the eu regulation on illegal, unregulated and unreported (iuu) fishing was a major step forward globally in the battle against iuu. the commission has been working very hard to convince both its member states and third countries about how to implement the requirements of catch documents signed by the flag states, and some countries have been lobbying extremely hard to have exemptions from this rule, in order to let chartering states have the right to issue catch documents. the concept of ‘chartering state’ does not even exist in international law; on the other hand, the concepts of ‘flag state’ and ‘flag state responsibility’ have been built up through hard work and international negotiations over decades, and now a small exemption, as proposed by the cites working group, threatens to set a precedent and unravel all the work that has been done up till now. we are all aware that the issue of chartering states is emerging at the speed of lightning in many of the world’s regional fisheries management organisations (rfmos). far too many countries would immediately use the argument that cites allows this exemption as an excuse to introduce the same logic in the rfmos, allowing chartering states to issue catch documents. this would totally undermine the iuu regulation. i add my voice to those asking what consequences this could have for flag-state responsibility in commercial fleets. we should not underestimate this factor. the confusion over who bears responsibility when it comes to oil spills or dumping of toxic waste is already at a maximum with ships owned in one country, flagged to another, operating in a third and landing in a fourth, with a crew and beneficial owners in a fifth. so what is the problem in cites? it is not clear to me. is it that a few countries, so-called ‘chartering states’, want to facilitate their administrative burden when they have to issue catch documents on a few hundred tonnes of endangered species of sharks that are on the cites annex 2 list? to let them do that, the world should not be ready to unravel international work on tightening the law against iuu – which actually accounts for one fifth of the world’s fish catches.
in writing. - i voted against the intergroup resolution because i found the text of it unacceptable to support. the wording and descriptions did not show any attempt at objectivity, and several facts were, i believe, missing. it is of the utmost importance that the responsibility of all parties for the peace process be highlighted. the multiparty resolution did not sufficiently emphasise the role and responsibilities of the palestinian authority. hamas' refusal to recognize israel as a country and its right to exist must also be condemned and criticized. no lasting peace can ever be achieved otherwise. the rocket attacks from the gaza strip on israeli civilians must stop. the refusal of neighbouring countries to grant citizenship to palestinian refugees and to stand up for human rights is also an obstacle to peace. the un refugee agency must play a more constructive role by revising the world-unique exception that specifically allows palestinian refugees to be inherited.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we heard the deeply tragic story of teresa before, but unfortunately it is repeated a thousand times all over africa. four hate republics - mauritania, sudan, somalia and nigeria - even have the death penalty for love. the fact that 38 countries in africa ban love is deeply tragic, but a change in the law could begin to break that norm. it won't go all the way, but it's a start. all love is good love. people and societies grow when it's allowed to flow freely. corrective rape is a completely absurd concept. the only ones who need to be corrected are those who commit such bestial acts.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? commissioner, what is it? from day one and throughout the process of preparing this report, i have had extensive contacts with the shadow rapporteur, the public, political advisers and non-governmental organisations. i would therefore like to express my very, very warm thanks to all of you who have contributed to the presentation of this report. your suggestions and comments are now part of the whole, whether they have come in through amendments, referrals, the specially designed facebook page or orally. this is a cross-policy report, where gender equality, ecology and the environment interact. it may always be important from a number of policy perspectives, but it may be especially important in a time of financial crisis. when it comes to economic problems and their solutions, the debate often tends to be very technical. it's as if women and men don't exist, even though economics is basically about human survival on a planet with limited resources. today's economic system does not take into account the limited nature of natural resources. constant growth is almost seen as a religion. sooner or later, however, a collapse occurs, because every good or service produced requires additional extraction of natural resources, such as water, energy or metals. this is clearly affecting the ecosystems that are the foundation of our existence and well-being. we would therefore really need a green economy for all. a green or sustainable economy is a system where we preserve the productive capacity of ecosystems, the carrying capacity of the planet, while meeting basic human needs for all. the development of the economy is therefore within the limits of what nature can tolerate, ensuring a fair distribution of resources between all the people on earth - between women and men - and between generations. so this is about a sustainable economy. to create a sustainable future, we need to think beyond the market and its short-term perspective. it means that we must put the well-being of people first. to do that, we must protect the basic functions of ecosystems, because without ecosystems there is no well-being. the path to the green economy, the sustainable economy, is mainly through changes in the rich world. we are the ones who must create sustainable patterns of production and consumption. today's economic policies are not only plunging us into an environmentally dangerous ditch, but they also seem to widen the gaps in society between women and men, between rich and poor, and between north and south. the male ratio that permeates today's society must be completely changed in a sustainable society. targeted measures such as quotas are needed. transport, consumption, food, welfare and representation are areas that are strongly linked to a sustainable economy. within these areas there must be a gender perspective. the report contains a number of proposals in these areas. these are proposals that could lead to a sustainable economy where women and men have equal opportunities to determine and influence the development of society, where the planet's borders are protected and where there is social justice between all women and men.
member of the commission. − mr president, first of all i would like to thank and congratulate the rapporteur, ms satu hassi, as well as the committee on the environment, public health and food safety and the committee on transport for the excellent work carried out on this proposal. we have been waiting for it for a number of years. it was already clear in 2005 that, with business as usual, sulphur emissions from shipping would exceed those from all land-based sources in the european union by 2020. in order to reverse this trend, the commission supported the international maritime organisation (imo) in developing internationally binding standards for the quality of marine fuels, which were agreed in 2008. this was a major breakthrough. the new standards will bring very significant health and environmental benefits and will contribute to resolving problems faced by member states in complying with air quality limits. although they are highly cost-effective for the economy as a whole, the commission is aware of the potential economic impact on the shipping industry. that is why we have brought forward a set of measures to support compliance with the legislation in a staff working paper entitled the sustainable waterborne transport toolbox. this work has now culminated in the proposal on which you will vote today. the commission is satisfied with the compromise text, which aligns the directive with the international rules of annex 6 of the marpol convention in respect of sulphur standards and strengthens provisions on enforcement and monitoring. let me explain some of the very good reasons which have already been explained by ms hassi. firstly, the stricter sulphur standards agreed at the imo will now be introduced into european union legislation and hence will benefit from the european union enforcement regime. the european union legislation will introduce the global 0.5% sulphur standard in 2020, while the imo foresees a review clause with a possibility to postpone it till 2025. we support the choice made by the co-legislators as it brings certainty for investors and operators, as well as fairness across the european union. secondly, the directive will allow the use of emissions abatement technologies, such as scrubbers, or lng as alternatives to the use of low sulphur fuels. these alternative compliance methods allow operators to choose the most cost-efficient compliance option and also promote development of clean technologies. finally, the provisions on enforcement of the standards and guidelines on monitoring and reporting of fuel used by ships should result in a more effective control of compliance with the new standards. i am convinced that this directive will contribute significantly to reducing air pollution and thus will have a positive impact on people’s health. it is also a step towards a more modern and greener shipping industry. however, a number of changes introduced in the commission’s proposal during the first reading deliberations require the commission to make six declarations concerning: the revision of directive 2000/55/ec on port reception facilities for ship-generated waste and cargo residues; the use of the ‘non-opinion’ clause for the adoption of implementing acts; the use of dynamic reference to the imo on the establishment of new sulphur emission control areas; the use of implementing acts instead of delegated acts for sampling and reporting of marine fuels; the request to the commission to develop new measures supporting the implementation of the directive by the end of 2012; and finally the ongoing work to review the eu thematic strategy on air pollution to assess the costs and benefits of additional measures to reduce air pollution from shipping, including the impact of applying a maximum fuel sulphur standard of 0.1% in territorial waters. we will of course pass the full text of these declarations to the plenary services to be recorded in the minutes. the commission firmly believes that the outcome of the codecision process is a good step forward and it accepts the compromise reached at first reading. so, once again, congratulations on the very good work. it was not an easy compromise but it was very well done.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. it is with mixed feelings that i stand here today, because the decision we have to vote on, namely the implementation of the imo sulphur agreement, is something that we have had very little opportunity to influence. i think it's far from brilliant. it is welcome that the sulphur issue is finally being addressed and that we have a global solution, because it is a major health problem. as the commissioner pointed out, sulphur emissions from shipping will soon exceed those from land. anyone who's seen bunker oil knows what i mean. bunker oil is so dirty that in many cases it needs to be heated up to even be able to enter the engine and burn it. but as i said, the way in which this decision has been taken is far from brilliant, indeed, quite unreasonable. europe is being divided into two parts. the baltic sea, the north sea and the english channel, which already have the strictest regulations in the world, are being given even stricter rules, while not doing nearly as much in other parts of europe. it's as if greek lives are worth less than, say, danish ones. in the european parliament's handling of the matter we have tried to correct this absurdity and to ensure that we get tougher demands everywhere at the same time. we reached a small part of the road but far from enough. this decision does not give us equal opportunities throughout europe. this is going to be incredibly expensive, multi-billion dollar. it will be reflected in already strained state budgets. i saw yesterday how industries announced that they were moving. if that's the case, we haven't won anything. but the countries themselves have asked for this. the countries most affected have asked for this. so it is up to us to implement this decision. i think that order is unreasonable. we, who are obliged to legislate on this matter, should of course have been involved from the outset in the discussion of what this imo decision would have looked like. we cannot stand here and say that we would have reacted five minutes before noon when the whole debate on the consequences of the decision was five minutes after noon. if i could have stopped that part, i would have, but unfortunately, i wasn't offered that opportunity.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. four years ago, therefore, the global decision was taken to create this stricter sulphur directive. all eu governments took part in that decision. our task has been to translate this into eu law. we have had little opportunity to change the content, but i think we have succeeded on a few points. but that does not mean that you can be satisfied with the result. we can be satisfied with the environmental and health aspects, at least in the northern half of europe, because the requirements mean that we are taking a step towards treating our polluted seas, our seas which are in danger of becoming extinct, and therefore us humans, in a better way. we should be aware that the requirements for emissions from land transport are a hundred times higher than those for maritime transport. we can't have it like that. the problem, however, is that we are putting enormous pressure on the north of europe and no additional pressure on the south of europe, at least not significantly. we are creating two europe. that is not possible where there is to be a single internal market. i hope that our proposal has now made up some of the differences, and we must continue to work on this.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank the rapporteur for her excellent work. the shipping industry would like to claim that shipping is an environmentally friendly mode of transport. i think it is wrong to "grumble" that we ask them to either stop burning waste - which is what they have in mind now, that's what you can compare bunker fuel to - or that when they burn this waste they actually at least clean it. these are reasonable demands that will save 50,000 lives. the fact that there is a tightening of the rules in the baltic sea is quite natural, since it is an extremely sensitive sea. boiled water is not something that organisms are perfectly adapted to. the organisms are sensitive. it makes sense to have stricter rules there. nor can everyone install scrubbers and change vessels at the same time. it's good to have a few people ahead of us. the cost of this is greatly exaggerated. they correspond to about one fifth of a eurocent in dividends to the companies that have to invest in it. we can afford it. but we cannot afford the alternative of not doing so.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the ambition of the socialist group here in the european parliament was to link energy efficiency with major investments in buildings and energy systems in order to help reduce unemployment. if we could have done that, it would have been great. we could have shown that we can take action, that we can link environmental and climate policy with the issues of social survival. that is not the case now, but i would like to thank claude turmes and britta thomsen and all the other shadow rapporteurs who have done a fantastic job. the resistance has been fierce. the negotiating parties have looked a little fragile at times, because the aim has been to achieve something. in fact, we have been given a binding target for end-users' energy use in the back. we're gonna make the most of it.
mr president, i should truly like to thank you for that announcement. this is a great day for the people of sweden. now johan and martin are free. we wish to thank all colleagues for the solidarity and support they have shown. johan and martin, together with others who had been in prison in ethiopia, have been pardoned. they arrived safely home this morning. now of course we all hope for the liberation of all journalists imprisoned throughout the world. (applause)
mr president, today the swedish delegation voted in favour of the report on intra-eu solidarity, because we do support burden sharing and mutual assistance among all member states. however, the compromise reached is not balanced. first of all our work on asylum has to be based on correct facts. although the report is based on a notion that only countries on the external border are subject to extreme pressure and that they are the ones receiving the largest number of asylum seekers, this is not the reality. asylum seekers enter europe not only by sea, and second-line countries – where their final destination is – should also be taken into account. i would just like to take an example. in sweden, we are now receiving a thousand people from syria every week and of course we feel enormous solidarity towards them. so external borders and absolute numbers cannot be the only criteria for receiving support and financial aid. it should also be clearly stated that relocation should be on a voluntary basis for the member states who want to participate in the programmes and of course the people concerned should be asked for their views.
mr president, today we have approved an important step towards the completion of the single market. this is the most effective way to promote growth in europe at a time of economic crisis, so we should not underestimate the importance of this legislation. although technical, it is crucial for our companies and consumers in their daily lives. in a rapidly changing world, standards must ensure interoperability and keep pace with technological developments. we also need to have effective tools to drive innovation and boost the competitiveness of european companies in global markets. i therefore welcome the fact that standards will be continue to be bottom-up, market driven and voluntary. we have adopted a framework that will help develop european standards. we have been pressing hard for better, more flexible regulation, and we are removing unnecessary administrative burdens and increasing transparency. i think it is important that this will really facilitate the participation of smes and ensure access to user-friendly standards for all. i hope we will continue to work together to implement all the aspects of the single market act effectively.
in writing. - i voted today in favour of two reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since 2009, i have, as a rule, abstained or voted against all proposals to use the fund. this is because i do not think that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural change. the fund has now grown, evolved and made its impact. it is and will be for the foreseeable future. in future, i will now take a stand on each individual case if it meets the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants, as the two cases in question do. so it's about making the best of the situation.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of two reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting, because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists and will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we are therefore now taking a stand on each individual case if they meet the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in these two cases, we consider that the applications meet these requirements. we continue to support more effective and long-term instruments to increase employment, address structural change and increase labour market flexibility in the context of the 2013 budget and the long-term budget.
in writing. − we voted today in favour of the triantaphyllides report on intra-eu solidarity, because we support burden sharing and mutual assistance among all member states in the field of asylum. however, the compromise reached could be more balanced. while the report is based on the notion that only countries on the external border are subject to extreme pressure and that they receive the largest number of asylum seekers, this is not the reality. asylum seekers enter europe not only by sea; countries of final destination – like sweden – should be taken into account as well. the external borders and absolute numbers of asylum seekers should not be the only criteria in order to receive more support and financial aid. relocation among member states should be voluntary for member states and should concern only people that have already been granted asylum, with their consent, and not asylum seekers. as we work together to achieve a common asylum system by 2012, it is important that we base our legislative work on facts with a balanced and inclusive approach.
in writing. − i supported report a7-0248/2012 on enhanced intra-eu solidarity in the field of asylum, because it contains important critique of the current eu asylum system and stresses the need for change. however, my vote in favour of the report should not be seen as support to the report’s call for further harmonisation at eu level within the field of asylum.
in writing. the european parliament has adopted a resolution on the situation in the middle east. the aim is to be able to provide additional assistance in those countries which currently need additional assistance. it is also important to emphasise the responsibilities of individual countries. europe represents for many people the dream of a life in peace, freedom and security. it is therefore a matter of people's desire to realise these fundamental values when asylum policy is discussed. it is therefore regrettable that these people are repeatedly referred to as problems and 'burdens', as is done in this report. it is also urgent to stress that each country, for purely humanitarian reasons, should have the right to show radical solidarity and that the talk of harmonisation should not mean that a country withdraws or does not feel justified in humanity. we should call on all countries to pursue an asylum policy which respects human rights and freedoms. despite some problematic wording, i chose to vote in favour of the report.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report on the electronic identification of bovine animals because it aims to reduce bureaucracy and the administrative burden on farmers and because modern technology guarantees greater food safety. the use of the new electronic labelling of animals will make it easier to recall or check infected meat quickly through the databases being set up. at the same time, i think it is good that farmers will have the option of using the electronic labelling. it involves costs and should not be something they are directly forced to do.
in writing. - the proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment against the dangers of ionizing radiation; the particularly strict rules on sulphur emissions in the exposed seas of northern europe (the baltic sea, the north sea and the english channel) put many of the industries in sweden and other northern european countries at a major competitive disadvantage compared to the rest of europe, where higher sulphur emission limits apply, due to higher shipping costs. reducing sulphur emissions in our seas is an environmental imperative, and one to which all 27 eu member states have already committed themselves by signing the marpol convention and its annex vi. in my view, it would be better if the seas around all the eu countries were subject to the same low sulphur emission limit values as the seas in northern europe. this would not only make competition more equal and the internal market more integrated, but also clean water and air along all the eu's coasts.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' to cover all transport services. we do not want european taxpayers' money to be used for illogical subsidies which distort the market mechanisms and which, in this case, also have a direct price-reducing effect on the sale of alcoholic beverages.
in writing. - the imi is a vital instrument for the internal market. cooperation between public authorities via imi contributes to the proper implementation of internal market rules and to the increased mobility of citizens and businesses in the eu. in times of crisis, a well-functioning internal market is indeed the highway to more growth, competitiveness and jobs in europe. the imi system for administrative cooperation between national authorities has been in place since 2008, but until now it lacked a legal framework. i welcome the fact that we have brought together existing practices in a single text, which increases transparency and legal certainty. at the same time, we have simplified procedures and strengthened the protection of personal data. i have, among other things, promoted the principle that data should not be stored in the system for longer than necessary, but that one should also be able to demand access to one's data for specific evidentiary purposes even after a case has been closed. as head of the ppe group, i have worked for a safe, cost-effective, flexible and user-friendly system. i particularly welcome the fact that the imi system, currently used for the services directive and vocational qualifications, will in future be able to be extended to other areas of eu legislation, such as solvit and e-commerce, on the basis of pilot projects from the commission.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats are clearly in favour of a strong welfare state financed by solid tax revenues. we therefore see significant problems in the trend towards lower corporate taxes driven by the increasingly fierce tax competition between member states. if this process is not stopped, not only will corporate taxation be eroded. it will also be difficult for those countries which want to maintain relatively high levels of taxation to be able to do so in practice. consequently, we see value in a proper debate on limiting or ending this tax competition. however, we cannot support the establishment of a minimum level of corporate taxation. it would mean that the eu was making progress in an area direct taxation where the starting point must be that the member states decide entirely on their own.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the resolution on the commission's work programme for 2013. the main priorities for the commission in 2013 shall be to address the crisis through measures for a functioning internal market, increased competitiveness, open borders and investments in innovation, research and job creation. that is why we also voted in favour of the amendments which implied better budgetary discipline, a clearer subsidiarity principle, a stronger internal market, investment in innovation, research and enlargement. for the same reasons, we voted against the points in which the european parliament expressed its support for taxation at eu level, own resources and a change in the treaty.
in writing. - i would like to make clear by this explanation of vote why it is necessary for the commission to examine the matter further. i strongly support the free movement of persons in the eu's internal market as a fundamental right for all eu citizens, but see a need to examine the relationship between different regulatory frameworks in order for it to work in the best way. the directive on free movement gives eu citizens the right to stay in another eu country without working for more than three months if they have sufficient resources not to be considered a burden on the social assistance system of that country and are insured for health care. in several eu countries, however, a person who is not working may still be entitled to various social security benefits. the commission proposal can be read as meaning that a person who is not working and who has been granted a social security benefit (not linked to gainful employment) can be considered to have the resources to be considered not to be a burden on the social assistance system of the member state and thus to meet the requirements for the right of residence. in practice, this means that a person is first examined for entitlement to social security benefits (the regulation on the coordination of social security systems) and then for the right of residence (the directive on the free movement of persons). logically, on the contrary, the right of residence should be tested before social security benefits are granted.
in writing. - we moderates voted today for the report on the role of women in the green economy. the report includes a paragraph calling on member states to introduce quotas to increase gender equality in society. we moderates voted against this paragraph because we believe that it should be up to the member states themselves to decide how they want to achieve a society of equality, with reference to the principle of subsidiarity. furthermore, we do not believe that quotas are the right way to increase the proportion of women in senior positions.
in writing. - in today's vote on the report on the role of women in the green economy, i voted in favour of the final vote, despite voting against in most of the votes on separate items. i would like to make a reservation in particular to paragraph 35 on the gender quota, which in my view is not the right way to a truly equal society, whether it be in the appointment of political or business positions.
in writing. the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of health and safety at work. the report includes a paragraph on the maternity leave directive and an invitation to the council to adopt the directive. we moderates oppose this, because the directive is a serious restriction of the principle of subsidiarity. we believe that maternity leave is a matter best decided by the member states themselves.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the own-initiative report on the distribution of audiovisual works on the internet, as it is important to make the sector more competitive by simplifying and improving licensing and remuneration issues. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. the aim is to find a simple and clear regulatory framework that promotes free movement and makes the sector more competitive, while maintaining a balance between the protection of copyright and privacy.
madam president, i would like to thank you. this report calls for clearer political priorities and strategic lines, and i agree. but at the same time, i lack a single approach to the same problem. we cannot, for example, advocate territorial integrity and the end of occupation for some countries, while ignoring the same in other countries. the same approach must be applied to all. it is shameful that a country which is committed to a partnership with the eu occupies the territory of another country, and it is even worse that a number of resolutions on the withdrawal of the occupying forces are not respected. the second point i would like to stress is a clearer leadership towards the balkans. many of the balkan countries do not have strong leadership, and they rightly expect us to show it. we can't make the same mistake we made in the early '90s. we cannot only mediate, we must also lead. otherwise, our position and the entire enlargement process could be jeopardized.
madam president, i would like to thank ms ashton. today is certainly a happy day in my home country of sweden. it has been mentioned that the two reporters were released in ethiopia yesterday and are back home. this of course gives me the opportunity to ask ms ashton: have you received any new information about dawit isaak in the neighbouring country of eritrea? he has now been imprisoned without a trial in asmara, eritrea, for 4000 days and nights - nearly eleven years. do you have any new information?
rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on development. − mr president, dear colleagues, we are approaching a real crunch time in the debate over the future common fisheries policy, and the question is: will it be a success, or will it continue to be a disaster? at the moment, i see two real, major threats that could destroy all the good work that has been done by the rapporteurs, mr haglund, mr salavrakos, mr stevenson and also ms rodust, and the extremely long work and analyses carried out by the commission and the court of auditors. the first of these threats is paragraph 58 of the salavrakos report, which calls for fleet renewal. the eu got rid of subsidies for building new fishing vessels in the last reform in 2002, and still the fleet suffers from enormous over-capacity. it would be completely irresponsible to reintroduce this now, in the middle of the economic crisis, when we should have learnt our lesson. that lesson is that the best way to let the fishing industry become economically prosperous is to rebuild fish stocks to a level above maximum sustainable yield. this leads me to the other threat to a successful reformed fisheries policy, namely amendment 2 to the salavrakos report, which seeks to delete the word ‘above’ from ‘above msy’. that would be an extremely serious mistake. study after study has shown that if we keep stocks above msy level, the industry will enjoy greater stability and earn more money, and investments will be much safer. this is also what the pelagic rac stated in the committee on fisheries. it would give us a better marine environment and is consistent with a precautionary approach. concerning the stevenson report, we support the mandatory provision of information to consumers on the date of catch and the gear type that has been used. this should also apply for processed products. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – i am actually convinced that, with just a few years of recovery of the fish stocks in europe, all the european fleets will be in a much better economic situation. i think that fishermen, as well as all other economic entrepreneurs, have the obligation to see to it that their activity is economically viable. they should be able to invest in their own renewal of their own fishing vessels. it should not be up to european taxpayers to provide for that.
for the gue/ngl group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? i would first like to thank the commission and its staff, and the council and its staff, for your contribution to the negotiation of this final result. i would also like to thank the rapporteur of this parliament, mrs antonyia parvanova, and mrs teresa jiménez-becerril barrio, for the excellent work they have done to ensure that this document has the greatest possible impact on the victims. you have fought with zeal and enthusiasm for the position of parliament. thanks again for that! as regards the proposal itself, i am particularly pleased that there is now a strong gender perspective. some examples: victims of gender-based violence are highlighted, the need for sheltered housing is identified, the right to legal information is clarified. the directive is therefore a step forward in the fight against violence by men against women. i would like to stress, however, that parliament still believes that the commission should present a proposal for an eu strategy against violence against women. only within the framework of such a coherent approach will it be possible to take effective and forceful eu action to combat all forms of violence against women in europe.
mr president, i am particularly happy that we have adopted the directive on the rights, support and protection of victims of crime, and i very much support the epp rapporteur, teresa jiménez-becerril barrio. from now on, women suffering domestic violence, children trapped in trafficking, innocent victims of terrorism and victims of all crimes will be able to have the same rights, regardless of the member state where the crime has been committed and their nationality. we have set up clear common standards to ensure that each victim is treated with respect, dignity and without discrimination across the european union. i welcome in particular the attention given to children and to people with special needs and that there will be an individual assessment of their vulnerability so as not to create first or second-class victims. in the stockholm programme we promised to have a europe that is a community of rights for all citizens. this is a significant step in that direction and i look forward to continuing to work with colleagues to make it a reality.
in writing. the european parliament has also called for the establishment of a european defence agency, which would be responsible for the coordination of the activities of the european defence agency. we believe that the report fails to address the reservations against this. we also think it would have been important to have a document which also addresses the member states' perspectives on the subject and takes account of the different traditions and positions of the member states in the fields of foreign affairs, security and defence. it is important for us to protect sweden's freedom of association.
mr president, i think it is important that we achieve better supervision and better implementation and also that we can secure the stability of european banks. i think we should be pragmatic and decisive in trying to achieve that. however, i would like to underline – and i know the commissioner does not take a different view – that when we proceed we must ensure we do not create new unions within the union, because that would lead to fragmentation which would be contrary to what we want: namely, better supervision and greater stability. so i would like to emphasise to you, mr commissioner, that we have one union, and that is the one we shall develop.
member of the commission. − mr president, some members of this house have been receiving fearsome messages about the eu being on the verge of burying 18 developing countries, and you have just heard it from the rapporteur. what you are not being told is the following. up until the end of the 1990s, the eu was granting african, caribbean and pacific countries special unilateral tariff preferences that were more generous than the generalised system of preferences. other trade partners attacked us over this in geneva. under wto rules, special preferences cannot discriminate between countries in a similar economic situation except by waiver, which we were granted for the last time between 2000 and 2007. in the mean time we were expected to bring our trade relationship into line with wto rules. in 2000 the eu and acp countries signed the cotonou agreement wherein they agreed without coercion to modernise their trade and aid relations. let us not forget that until then, even these very generous preferences were not enough to improve acp exports to europe. indeed, between 1967 and 1999 the acp’s share in total eu imports fell from 7.7 % to 2.8 %, so we agreed in cotonou – specifically in article 16 of the treaty – to conclude new bilateral trade agreements that would be wto-compatible. it was a proposal that made economic sense because of the poor experience with unilateral tariff preferences. but it was also one that matched the political moods at the time. the international community at large had finally understood that development policies which do not sustain good governance are simply not sustainable. eu trade policy had to reflect this too. i have said this before and i will say it again: the political value of bilateral trade agreements is that they create flanking policies and institutions to manage the implementation of commercial commitments. besides stimulating the two-way flow of trade, lowering customs tariffs reduces the potential for poor governance, in particular corruption. let me try once again to explain what this regulation is about. in 2007, by the time we had conducted and concluded epa negotiations with about half of the acp countries, the eu, acting in good faith, passed the market access regulation to allow our epa partners continued market access to the eu on a duty-free, quota-free basis. we did so on the understanding that our epa partners would formalise their commitment to these agreements within a year or two by signing and ratifying them. most epa partners proved us right and did take the necessary steps. eighteen had not until last year. but a few months later zimbabwe ratified its interim epa. nine of the countries left are least developed countries and will continue to enjoy duty-free, quota-free status because they continue to be eligible for ‘everything but arms’ benefits. that leaves us with only eight countries actually affected by the proposal we are discussing today. to be even clearer, we are talking about botswana, cameroon, côte d’ivoire, fiji, ghana, kenya, namibia and swaziland, which makes me wonder why these particular eight countries need more time to adjust to a situation that was already required 12 years ago, when 87 countries and territories are adjusting to our 2011 gsp proposal in less than three years. the broader picture on epas is really something to be proud of. we are continuing negotiations for comprehensive epas with practically all the epa regions and i have a small set of outstanding issues left with the east african community, with western africa and with epa partners in the southern africa development community, the sadc. furthermore we are implementing agreements concluded back in 2007 with the caribbean, papua new guinea and four eastern and southern african countries. some of them are also continuing negotiations to get to comprehensive regional agreements. what this agreement is about is the past: epas initialled by the end of 2007. so it is not about negotiations on comprehensive epas, the argument invoked by some to justify an extended deadline. this is an agreement about doing away with the past, it is not about the future. if there is such heavy resistance today from those who would prefer to extend the status quo, i cannot help but ask a question. are we not letting down a promising entrepreneurial class in eight acp countries if the 2014 deadline is extended? why should a kenyan, an ivorian or a namibian business person who has an innovative idea, finds a niche market and wishes to develop a product with the assistance of good european machinery, continue to have to pay very heavy import duties for the next two, four or even seven years? how can that business idea grow if inputs are expensive? how many new jobs could be created if tariff barriers were removed? why do we continue to see africa, the caribbean and the pacific as not being capable of exporting much more than basic agricultural commodities? that is so far from present-day realities and needs. sometimes wanting to do good is actually the enemy of the good. in conclusion, as trade commissioner-designate, i took a pledge before this parliament in february 2010 to uphold and further strengthen the multilateral trading system. at the time i also understand my ambition is to bring epa negotiations to a successful conclusion provided the results are wto-compatible and can foster development. as a commissioner i am also bound by eu law. for these reasons, as well as my conviction that free trade deals serve poor countries better, i continue to support the commission proposal to amend the market access regulation with legal effect on 1 january 2014 and i very much hope that this wisdom will also convince parliament.
for the ppe group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? for this debate to have any meaning, we need to start at the beginning with the background of why we are really discussing this. the reason is that our old trade agreement with the acp countries, that is to say the african, caribbean and pacific countries, was declared illegal. it discriminated against other poor countries. that is why we decided to embark on the path we are now negotiating with the acp countries on economic partnership agreements. it's been a long time, an unacceptably long time. it is in the interest of all of us that these agreements come into force as soon as possible. because it is only with these agreements that we can have real development in poor countries, investment, governance. the only reason we have had these temporary trade preferences is to bridge the gap that has existed between our old illegal agreements and these new economic partnership agreements. but they were just temporary. actually, the whole debate here today is about how long "temporary" is. the left here in the house says temporary means forever or at least until 2019. the socialist group says temporarily enough until 2016. i get the feeling that anytime but not right now is temporary. however, that is more than 12 years ago and it is more than temporary. why would you do that? the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them. they were not least unfair to the acp countries which respected the fact that they were temporary, negotiated and concluded partnership agreements with us. we therefore have a responsibility to put an end to this temporary arrangement. let us continue to be honest and say that we will never get any economic partnership agreements if we say that the temporary arrangement is for ever. what are we going to say to the other poor countries, to the countries that once sued us, that we don't care about either what is fair or the wto law? that is why we must support this proposal and put an end to the provisional arrangements. the ppe group therefore believes that the commission's proposal should be approved. i also think it would be good if we could try to agree to do a first reading of this to get the rules in place as soon as possible. i therefore think that the best thing we could do would be to vote on all the amendments and then postpone the final vote so that we can start negotiations with the council. it is only a date that separates us, a date that means a lot, but something i think we could agree on. i would therefore urge both the president and the rapporteur to consider whether we should not enter into negotiations with the council and try to reach an agreement at first reading.
blue-card answer. – it is quite clear; nobody is forcing anyone to sign anything. it is an offer for us to give them possibilities to negotiate epas. if they choose not to do so, they will be treated equally with other poor countries and we will be fair to them on the same basis as non-acp countries. but just because you once were part of an illegal trade agreement, you will always be a part of an illegal trade agreement: that is not fair – neither to those who sign epas nor to those who never were part of the original illegal trade agreement.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. commissioner, what is it? a big thank you to the two rapporteurs, sophie auconie and philippe lamberts, for a good job. the alde group is in favour of both the proposals on venture capital funds and social enterprise funds. these proposals will make it easier to obtain financing for smes. it has been said here, but it is not enough to mention it once, it can be mentioned several times in view of the problems facing europe. it is also important for enhancing the competitiveness and growth potential of smes. venture capital investments can be a very valuable alternative to bank financing. to support the most promising start-ups, venture capital funds need to become larger and more diversified in their investments and to foster innovation. social entrepreneurship in the eu must be strengthened, especially in these times of crisis. we welcome the idea that managers of venture capital funds and social entrepreneurship funds may use a quality label, a european passport, to market their funds throughout the eu. it's been proven to work very well in other contexts. it is important to introduce a single rulebook throughout the eu. it'll cut down on the hassle and red tape. it facilitates investment and business in the single market. some burdensome unnecessary bureaucratic rules, such as requirements for depositaries, have been removed in the compromise with the council. i think that's good. i think we have found the right balance, and this can really facilitate investment for europe's smes. the question that remains is the question of tax havens. i hope we can work something out. i would like to conclude by saying that i find it sad that taxation issues, also in connection with the question of tax havens, cause such divisions.
for the alde group. president. - the debate is closed. i also think it is very gratifying that we have reached a settlement on this issue which enjoys wide support here in parliament and which has finally been accepted by the member states in the council. for this i would of course like to thank our rapporteur, lidia joanna geringer de oedenberg, and all the others who have worked on the report, not least alexandra thein from the liberal group. i hope and believe that the directive will be an important first step in solving the problems surrounding unauthorised works, especially in the digital age we are living in. it has been difficult to strike a good balance between safeguarding the ability of libraries and archives to make literature, including unauthorised works, available, and having reasonable rules to protect the authors who created these works, which have become unauthorised over time, but which can still offer joy and hope and a belief in the future to readers in our time. i think we have found a reasonable balance in this directive. for that i would like to sincerely thank everyone involved.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, i am very sad to say that i am very disappointed today. this was a very good opportunity, and i think we missed it. there was a proposal from the commission, which was limited in scope and i would have wanted it to be better, but it was good. unfortunately, it got watered down, first by the processing in parliament, then in the committee and then in the trialogue. so, what we have now is a directive that, on the surface, if you read it through quickly, gives the impression or the hope that it will be helpful. i do not think it will be, in practice, because there are so many details that restrict what the museums, archives and libraries are allowed to do. there is one very good thing in this directive: it introduces the new principle of mutual recognition of orphan work status after a diligent search. that is a very good and sensible principle. this means that, for example, if it is a swedish author you only have to search in sweden – unless there are specific reasons to think that an author may be found elsewhere but, basically, for a swedish author you search in sweden, and then it is declared orphan all over the union. that is good, but where are the provisions? in the commission proposal there was an article 7 that allowed museums and libraries to do some, quite limited, searches but still to have some commercial possibilities – that was taken out. instead, what was inserted in it was that the museums and libraries will have a liability if they digitalise and make available a work and the rightholder reappears. now we all agree that, if a rightholder reappears, he or she should have the right to say: take it down, here i am, and this is mine. that is fine. but what was added also was that the museums and libraries have to pay compensation. now, the risk is that this will make the directive more or less useless anyway because, if they do not have the legal certainty, there is a big risk that they will not dare to digitise our common cultural heritage. we all want the same thing here. we would all love to see europeana filled with lots of works from every member state. unfortunately, i do not think this directive will do that. mrs gallo said that this is not the end of the road, and i want to pick up that. several other speakers have also said that this is a first step. yes, it is a first step. it is a very small step, but we will have to return to this. we have not solved the problem, and that makes me a little bit sad.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. first of all, i would like to thank our colleague, mr sajjad karim, for the good work he has done in this report. i would like to focus these minutes on one aspect raised in the report, which is that the commission must do a better job of explaining and justifying the european added value in the legislative proposals it puts forward. i would like to emphasize that i say this as a convinced federalist, who would like to see more joint decisions and activities at european level. at the same time, we must do better at making this european added value in the work of the eu clear and easy to explain. this is not only true of our contacts with our citizens, but we must also improve our dialogue and cooperation with colleagues in the national parliaments. it is not enough that some officials of the commission and members of this house understand what the european added value of various proposals is. we must be better at listening to and explaining the views of citizens. this can lead to a better understanding of the intentions behind european legislation and in some cases also to a clearer understanding of the fact that there are not enough motives to legislate at european level. this is where the whole subsidiarity issue comes in. i hope that the commission will now take up these comments, which are particularly timely on a day like today, the day after josé manuel barroso's speech at yesterday's sitting. he stressed something new, namely that an important debate on european added value must be held at all levels. in this process i believe that the report by our colleague, mr sajjad karim, can be very helpful and clarify not only the problems but also the solutions.
mr president, i would like to hear the comments from the cyprus presidency. (laughter)
mr president, i would like to thank you. i voted for this report with great reluctance, because this agreement contains a prohibition on giving documents to parliament. for example, if iran has sent a document to the council, iran can prohibit the council from giving this document to parliament. i think that such rules are unacceptable, as is the obligation to keep information confidential when it is given orally. you can never prove what you have and have not received by official means, and therefore there is legal uncertainty. i am also opposed to the fact that we must always be forced to accept the council's classification of secrets. i think there should be a mechanism to negotiate with the council on what should be classified. despite these various shortcomings, and also a number of other shortcomings in the way information is given, i voted in favour of this report because we need some kind of agreement. then we'll have to improve it when the opportunity arises.
in writing. the european union is also committed to the development of a common foreign and security policy, which is based on the principles of the treaty of rome and the treaty of rome. however, we do not support the calls for public support for the renewal of fishing vessels. this aid was abolished in the previous fisheries reform in 2003 and would represent a major step backwards in the reduction of the european fishing fleet's overcapacity. we also oppose the call for the establishment of a european coastguard organisation. we consider that border control is a national competence and therefore do not support the request for the establishment of such an organisation.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. unilateral pressure to conclude the negotiations within the short deadline, regardless of whether or not the question of the disputed provisions has been resolved, is not a good way of creating the necessary conditions for the conclusion of negotiations in which the interests and problems of both parties are taken into account. of course, it is important to respect the wto rules and the regulation in question would be a temporary solution. it is not sustainable to maintain benefits for countries which do not meet the criteria, but the commission's proposal is not a satisfactory solution to this.
in writing. - at the final vote on the abovementioned report, i, like 35% of my colleagues in parliament, abstained. the reason was that amendment no 4 was passed by a narrow majority. the amendment extends the end date of the negotiation period for the trade agreements in question from 2014 to 2016. i am convinced that it would be a positive thing for both the countries concerned and the eu if the negotiations, which should have been concluded years ago, could be concluded as soon as possible.
in writing. - i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it can be a positive step towards improving quality and facilitating both small producers and consumers. today we have protected designations of origin (pdo) and protected geographical indications (pgi) which are used to protect and enhance the quality of products with a distinctive regional character. in sweden and scandinavia we are not very good at using these terms in the way they are used in southern europe (e.g. parmaskinka, parmesan, etc.). the new proposal is more comprehensive and aims to introduce more categories and labels, for example for food from the arctic, mountain areas, etc. it can also lead to a more uniform labelling system that can be used throughout europe and that can help to strengthen swedish food exports as presented in the idea of the new food country sweden. fewer labels that consumers trust and know about make it easier to make an informed choice. the proposal also aims to facilitate administrative work and reduce red tape, which i very much welcome.
in writing. - we moderates voted today for the legislative proposal on certain permissible uses of so-called orphan works. the report deals with several important areas, such as the public's access to anonymous works through libraries, archives and universities. we believe, however, that a prerequisite for a wide cultural offer is that works may not be commercialized for further dissemination and use. we regret that this possibility is not mentioned in the report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. one of the considerations in the resolution mentions the possible establishment of a european banking stability fund. while it may be one thing to establish such a european fund from scratch, we see it as something quite different to merge existing funds into a common one in a situation where some member states have built this type of fund nationally, while others have not. we very much doubt that.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances. one of the considerations in the resolution mentions the possible establishment of a european banking stability fund. while it may be one thing to establish such a european fund from scratch, we see it as something quite different to merge existing funds into a common one in a situation where some member states have built this type of fund nationally, while others have not. we very much doubt that.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the resolutions we are discussing here are usually about things happening outside europe's borders, but we must also discuss what has happened in hungary. but i think the focus is on the fact that when you turn people over, you usually agree to stay in prison. after a number of years, there is often a chance for a pardon or release. in this case, you choose day one to heroically pay homage to a murderer, reward him financially to exacerbate the conflict. there can be no purpose for it other than to dilute hatred and aggravate conflict. it seems that this has worked. that is why it is important now that we help armenia and azerbaijan to reach a peaceful solution to the conflict and that this kind of hate politics cannot be rewarded in any way.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a big thank you to the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteur. they have done a very good job in an extremely difficult time. very few citizens are aware that the eu budget is actually falling as a share of the member states' economies. most people think it just grows and grows. that's not true, man. it is falling despite the fact that the eu has been given new tasks and new member states. however, in the light of the economic crisis, the european parliament is very cautious in 2013. the commission's proposal is to freeze new budgetary commitments. the reason why we do not accept budget cuts is that we believe that this could worsen the crisis. the budget is in fact made up of investments that create jobs and growth and that have a solidarity-based redistributive profile, in favour of the most vulnerable countries, regions, unemployed young people and so on. in many of these countries, no job-creating investment will be made without eu support. the most controversial issue seems to be the payment appropriations. this should be a technical issue. it should be obvious that budgetary decisions must be implemented, contracts must be paid, exchange students must be paid, and so on. it is simply not acceptable that important programmes such as erasmus and the social fund now have difficulty carrying out their activities. we believe that the commission's proposals for payment appropriations for next year are not excessive but just what is needed. it is very good that commissioner lewandowski has now started to say that in earnest. finally, a few words on the european parliament's own budget. for several years now the socialist group has been pushing for savings without jeopardizing parliamentary work. we're going to continue that line now. we agree to an increase rate of 1.9%, including the costs of croatia's accession. it's actually a real budget cut. finally, we really need to make progress on the question of the seat of parliament in strasbourg. the committee on budgets has now adopted by a large majority, on my proposal among others, a more developed proposal than before, which calls for a 'road map', an action plan, to deal with the matter in practice. there are ways of resolving this with respect for history without harming the city of strasbourg and its citizens. in the long term, a solution which requires enormous costs every year and which, moreover, places a heavy burden on both the environment and the working conditions of parliament is unreasonable.
in writing. - we believe that the eu budget must be given sufficient resources to finance commitments already made. at the same time, we would like to stress that the eu must first of all adopt a restrictive approach and provide these resources by redistributing them within the existing budget. we believe that the agricultural budget should be reduced in favour of those areas which are currently facing payment problems, such as the social fund, research programmes and erasmus. we do not believe that the eu should act as an insurance company in the event of temporary crises in the agricultural sector. we welcome, however, the major cuts in eu export aid. finally, we believe it is important to make the eu's administrative expenditure more efficient and to reduce it, and we welcome the fact that the budgets of all the eu institutions except the eeas are kept below the rate of inflation. in this context, we also welcome the savings made in the travel allowances of members of the european parliament and the reduction in the appropriations for the 'house of european history' and the requirement of a single seat for the european parliament. however, work on further savings must continue.
in writing. − the 2013 budget sets out parliament's negotiating position for the negotiations with the council. the budget aims to be an instrument of economic recovery through targeted measures to boost investment, stability and growth, with particular emphasis on promoting youth employment, supporting smes and achieving the objectives of the europe 2020 strategy. the proposed budget is expansionary, which is not in keeping with calls for restraint on the part of the member states. the re-prioritization of budget lines needed is not addressed in the present proposal. the christian democrats' view of man is that every human being has an inherent inviolable value. we must devote more political energy to combating violations of such values, and this must be reflected in the eu budget. i voted in favour of proposals aimed at shifting resources from agricultural aid to internal security, i.e. the fight against crime, drug trafficking, human trafficking, and support for research and environmental protection. the core of european cooperation is more than employment levels and market competitiveness, and this must be reflected in the budget itself. the core of this is cooperation for peace and the protection of human dignity from the beginning to the end of life. i voted for the budget as a whole, and i voted for all the changes which, as far as i can see, lead to a greater focus on the core areas of the eu.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' to cover all the activities of the european parliament, including the provision of information on the activities of the european parliament and the commission. instead of prioritising savings, the commission and the majority of parliament have opted to demand increased spending and the introduction of eu taxes. this increase is not justifiable because of the lack of priorities and the considerable savings that the majority of member states are making. the introduction of new own resources does not reduce the burden on citizens. we help solve europe's problems by using the eu and its member states' revenues efficiently and by prioritising the most important spending. large subsidies to agriculture do not contribute to growth and jobs, but investments in innovation and research do. the long-term budget proposal lacks priorities to contribute aggressively to growth and competitiveness. the eu's long-term budget must be modernised and made more efficient. outdated expenditure items need to be revised and money put into growth-generating areas such as research and development. cohesion policy is concentrated on encouraging research, the development of new businesses and infrastructure. member states face difficult budgetary challenges that require priorities, and those priorities must also be made at eu level. it is against this background that we have not given our support to the report.
in writing. - in view of the economic situation in the member states, we believe that this should be done within the framework of a budget not exceeding the current level. for example, we believe that agricultural subsidies should be cut more than in the commission's proposal and that a redistribution should be made to the structural funds and environmental and climate investments. we also do not believe that new sources of revenue should be added to the eu budget and we do not believe that sweden's share of the funding should be increased. given that the report has good content on growth, jobs and solidarity, but lacks sufficient ambition for savings and reform, we have decided not to vote on the final text.
in writing. - we are convinced that the eu is needed to tackle common challenges such as climate change, organised crime and the humane treatment of asylum seekers in europe. we also believe that a strong eu and a well-functioning internal market are needed to get europe's economy back on track. we have therefore voted in favour of increasing investment in actions contributing to the europe 2020 strategy, such as research and entrepreneurship, and against maintaining the budget for the eu's agricultural policy. we believe that the eu's objectives and tasks should be achieved within the framework of the european commission's proposals, through clear priorities and strategic cuts - not through an increased budget. that is why we voted against the european globalisation adjustment fund, for example, and for the european parliament's travelling circus between brussels and strasbourg to be stopped. we also call for a more coherent and transparent eu budget. we believe that politics is about choosing, and choosing also means setting priorities. in these times of economic crisis in the eu member states, it would be irresponsible to demand an increased eu budget.
in writing. − the eu budget should be used for what can bring european added value. it is one of the pillars of the budgetary process and is also the one that will guide the distribution of the common funds at the disposal of the union. so far, everything is fine. the interim report voted on in plenary on 23 october stresses and attaches great importance to new own resources for the eu. this means the financial transaction tax, which i firmly argue is a waste of money for sweden and europe. own resources too often mean a tax to be paid directly to the eu budget. more money for the eu in the form of own resources is not automatically an investment that will help europe out of its troubles and strains. instead, we need to prioritise the resources now available. it is important to recall that a tobin tax has been tried in sweden and proved harmful. transactions are moved from sweden. it is also important to emphasise - as a matter of course - that the cost of ftt is borne by the average consumer and that economic growth is being hampered. since so much emphasis has been placed on own resources and the demand for a financial transaction tax, i chose to vote against the report.
in writing. - we welcome the review and simplification of the extremely complex vat revenue for the eu budget. we also welcome the reduction in the administrative burden on the member states. however, since the proposal concerns the taxation field, we do not think that the methods of collecting such a modified vat revenue should be regulated in a regulation. the proposal should instead be dealt with in the own resources decision, which requires unanimity in the council and ratification by all member states.
you guys! the additional protocol between the european union and israel on bilateral cooperation is mutually beneficial and of great importance. this will improve access to low-cost, patent-free medical devices by removing technical barriers. israeli medicines are among the best in the world and are used by many medical institutions, including most european health care institutions. the protocol will speed up the lengthy certification process, reducing costs and improving access to medicines, allowing patients to pay less. this is particularly important in times of crisis for every citizen. the highest quality control of medicines required by the european regulatory authorities will be maintained. the protocol also opens up possibilities for european manufacturers of medicinal products to export to israel. when we talk about supporting innovation, it would provide real support for the larger innovation sector - pharma. and so will jobs and growth. the protocol would also serve as a first step in other industrial sectors to harmonise european and israeli legislation. the introduction of a uniform certification system could reduce the cost of importing patent-free medicines from israel by up to €10 billion per year, but the new certification procedures will ensure that only registered and eu-approved israeli companies can produce medicines for export. this will ensure that only the best medicines tested reach the european market. on the other hand, the production time of the companies that will be subject to the one-off certification procedure will be reduced to up to three years. the economic benefits of the protocol are clear. there is another benefit, supporting a democratic regime in this region of conflict and violence. and i can only agree with mr caspary that if we have a deal with palestine, then we have to do the same with israel. i call on my colleagues to support the adoption of the protocol without delay. thank you.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it would be interesting to compare this debate on the trade agreement with israel with debates on other trade agreements around the world. it has been said that this was to be some sort of gift or reward for benjamin netanyahu. that is still underestimating the eu's own ability to trade and a strange way of reasoning, is it not? we know that today, here in europe, medicines are prescribed in unprecedented quantities from israel. they're talking about 3.5 million a day. we also know that these medicines are cheaper, as was said recently in this house. it is not entirely wrong if the eu can get something cheaper and of the highest quality in terms of fighting type 2 diabetes and multiple sclerosis and lowering blood pressure. someone in this house said that when we talk about china, we always talk about human rights. yes, although i haven't heard anyone say we should cut off trade with china. well, then, there would be a consequence. we cannot talk about occupied territories unless we dare to mention why these territories are occupied and why israel does not live within the 1967 borders. i think it is an enormous simplification to forget it if we are to bring it up in this debate, which would not be necessary at all but has been done by so many people. so this agreement was approved two and a half years ago and now it is being mixed up and violated in this way. it would be straightforward and honest to talk about why you're messing up because it's an absurdity. we are instead infecting the possibilities of influence in the middle east, and that is not what the european parliament was supposed to want.
mr president, i would like to thank you. to make the caa a pawn in a grand political game about the middle east, as the social democrats and the left here in the european parliament do, is both irresponsible and a betrayal of the sick in israel and europe who need medicines. it is wrong to say that this agreement is about upgrading trade relations between the eu and israel. the agreement is not about upgraded relations or the israeli-palestinian conflict. it is about facilitating the introduction and approval of new medicines. everything to make sick in israel and in europe should have access to the best medicine, as cheaply as possible and as quickly as possible. to stop this agreement is to punish those who we should agree are completely innocent of any guilt in this conflict, namely the sick. we started this work back in 2010 and we were working in parallel with a fruit and vegetable agreement with palestine. in 2011, i voted to approve the trade agreement with palestine on fruit and vegetables. we did it in parallel, just because we didn't want to send any political signals one way or the other. but the left here stopped the agreement with israel and only approved the agreement with palestine. it's making a big political game out of something that shouldn't be a big political game. i would like to conclude by saying that the sick in europe should not pay the price for the left's attempt to make political points out of things which could actually make life easier for people in israel and europe.
member of the commission. − mr president, i think the whole debate demonstrates that this is a very political technical debate. there has been a lot of discussion on this topic in the committee and in the plenary. i am not going to say anything further. it is now up to the house to make its decision.
the rapporteur. - mr president! - what is it? i will not use all my speaking time now, but i may wish to return at the end of the debate if it is possible to answer some questions. first of all, i would like to point out that the purpose of this report is to adapt our legislation to the changes which have come into force as a result of the european parliament's co-decision in trade matters under the new treaty. it is basically a rather technical matter to speed up the procedure and ensure that we do not take an unusually long time. to do this, the commission has stated that we need delegated acts to both achieve predictability and ensure that the european parliament does not sit with long lists of products and go through them one by one. there are some of these issues that should rather be dealt with by experts in delegated acts and that we could then examine. the challenge here is that we have to be quite quick in processing this case. if we do not, we will have old lists of so-called dual-use items covering only the system changes that have taken place up to 2010. the case we are dealing with now needs to be dealt with fairly quickly in order to cover all the changes that have taken place in 2011. when we discussed this in committee, we had a little too much conflict, unfortunately, and in a rather unnecessary way. a great many comments were made which were not on the technical issue of how we should work with delegated acts and get a faster and more efficient handling where i think we are basically in agreement, myself and the shadow rapporteur. many other issues were raised and discussed as well. i understand from the socialist group, among others, that you want to table some amendments again. this applies, for example, to proposals on cybersecurity, transparency, etc. i just want to point out that i agree with several of them and i think several of them are relevant. but i do not want to bring them up here and risk delaying the adoption of this document by referring to the amendments proposed by the socialist group, among others. we know that there is going to be a major overhaul of the whole system of dual-use products. the commission plans to present something in 2013 and a legislative proposal will come in 2014. i therefore see no urgent reason why we should have to implement the changes which i know have been proposed by the socialist group, among others. i therefore hope that we can now take this technical matter and make it easier and then, at a later stage, return to many of the relevant points made by my colleagues. i hope that we can now deal with this particular matter quickly and efficiently, in accordance with the committee's proposal.
member of the commission. − mr president, i will be very brief. i just wanted to assure the european parliament that we are committed to providing all relevant information and documents to the european parliament when preparing delegated acts, so as to ensure appropriate scrutiny of delegated acts, in line with our institutional commitments. secondly, on what mrs schaake has been saying about software and so on, she should acknowledge that the eu has taken swift and robust action to prevent the export of telecommunications interception and internet monitoring equipment in violation of human rights. this was, in particular, the case with the adoption of sanctions against syria and iran. having said this, what this proposal is about is speed: speed when something should be removed from the list; speed also when something should be put on the list. that is what we are asking the house’s agreement for.
rapporteur. − mr president, first of all we do not disagree on the most substantial issues. these dual-use items could be used to oppress people and could be used for war, and therefore we have – or may i say we should have – the strongest legislation in the world to control these items. the problem is that we do not have this any more since, because of the lisbon treaty, our procedures for changing these lists are too cumbersome and take too long. as the world is changing, we have to be swift and effective in changing legislation. that is exactly why we need to swiftly adopt this legislation instead of pre-empting the whole debate over changing the legislation. that debate has been scheduled, so let us address that issue when we get there. but now we need to update this legislation on the basis of the commission proposal. so each thing at its right time – now it is time to adopt this piece of legislation and not to pre-empt future debates.
in writing. - this spring, parliament voted, including myself, to suspend the discharge of the european environment agency. the agency has been responsive on many points since then and its executive director has been helpful and cooperative throughout the investigation period. the conduct of the director in relation to the business trip arranged must still be regarded as inappropriate. but, all in all, i do not think that discharge should be refused on that basis alone. the extended time-limit granted by parliament to correct irregularities and to explain itself has been used well and has straightened out several question marks. that is why i voted to give the european environment agency a discharge.
in writing. − since 2009, i have voted against all proposals to use the egf to adjust for the effects of globalisation. the fund has grown, developed, broadened its scope and received its own allocation. it exists, and it will not disappear for the foreseeable future. so it's about making the best of the situation. i have decided not to vote on the reports on the globalisation fund which have now been put to the vote. this is because i do not think that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural change. it is precisely structural changes in the individual countries affected that are needed. it is rather support for such changes that we in the eu should concentrate on. sweden has also undergone such changes over the years as the world market has changed. it is often a painful process but in the long run it is necessary.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of eight reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists, and it will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we have therefore now decided to take a case-by-case view of whether it meets the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in these cases, we considered that the applications fulfilled these requirements. we will continue to support more effective and long-term instruments in the framework of budgetary and long-term budgetary work to increase employment, respond to structural change and increase labour market flexibility.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of eight reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists, and it will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we have therefore now decided to take a case-by-case view of whether it meets the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in these cases, we considered that the applications fulfilled these requirements. we will continue to support more effective and long-term instruments in the framework of budgetary and long-term budgetary work to increase employment, respond to structural change and increase labour market flexibility.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of eight reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural change. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists and will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we have therefore now decided to take a stand on each individual case; whether they meet the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in these cases, we considered that the applications fulfilled these requirements. we will continue to support more effective and long-term instruments in the framework of budgetary and long-term budgetary work to increase employment, respond to structural change and increase labour market flexibility.
in writing. - the israeli-palestinian conflict has unfortunately been going on for decades and a long-term solution requires action by the parties as well as the wider world. the eu can play an important role in this. i believe that trade and dialogue create better conditions for the parties to find a decent solution. israel must respect the human rights of its palestinian neighbours, but even if the eu-israel simplified trade agreement does not contain any conditions for respect for the palestinian people, i do not think that the european parliament should reject the agreement at this stage. it remains that hamas refuses to recognize the state of israel's right to exist. that's why i voted for the trade agreement.
mr president, i would like to thank you. madam commissioner, you said we would have a proportional directive, but i find it difficult to see the proportionality of monitoring every electronic communication of every citizen. where's the efficiency? even a toddler can avoid being caught by this directive if he has criminal intentions. even george orwell himself could not have dreamed a nightmare about this directive. even george bush did not propose similar measures in the united states during the years of terrorism paranoia, but instead proposed a freeze. instead of having a billion haystacks to look for a needle in, it's smarter to follow a specific suspected individual, which is the needle, and see if anyone sticks it. it seems like a more efficient use of our money. having a spam retention directive like we have today is really not effective. i really hope you take this back as soon as possible. please present an investigation to prove that this is not effective, because i have not seen a single piece of evidence that it is.
mr president, i would like to thank you. commissioner, this is a completely failed directive. as the commissioner herself said, this has a major impact on the right to privacy. there's nothing positive that can make up for this. it has not had a harmonising effect and there is no indication that it would be effective in combating crime. the directive stated that the commission would carry out an evaluation by 15 september 2010, but this never happened. the commission has not yet made a proper evaluation. a few small anecdotes have been presented that suggest that it may be a bit pleasant after all. many of these anecdotes were even cases that came before data storage was implemented. the commission has failed to fulfil its obligations under this directive. against this background, one thing that my voters in sweden find very difficult to understand is how the commission can fine sweden for not having implemented this failed directive, while the commission itself completely fails to present a proper evaluation, which the commission is obliged to do.
mr president, on a point of order: i have a question about the rules. if we ask the commissioner a question, we would actually like to have an answer. one question the commissioner has not answered so far is whether the freezing of data, which they do in the united states, has been properly evaluated, because this is not clear from anecdotal evidence. for example, if you have a drug network, it is quite clear that this will have been suspected for some time, and a system of data freezing on individual grounds could work just as well. (the president cut off the speaker and asked the commissioner if she was prepared to reply)
mr president, the pirate party questions the inclusion of intellectual property rights provisions in the japan negotiation mandate. the vision of the eu for intellectual property rights in free trade has already failed at domestic level. acta was intensely disliked by citizens, and there are now additional concerns about the negotiations the commission is having with canada in the comprehensive economic and trade agreement. why would we also want these complications with japan? in addition, japan causes us no concerns in terms of intellectual property rights. this negotiation exercise comes at a time when, at multilateral level in the world intellectual property organisation, we are for the first time ever advancing the rights of citizens instead of the rights of rights holders in the deliberations on the treaty for the blind. is there a reason why we are choosing to set aside the multilateral system again at this time and for this topic? surely there must be better options for us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. finally, something to rejoice about! finally, someone to celebrate in these dark times. this year marks the 20th anniversary of the eu's single market. much has been achieved, mr commissioner, although some remains to be done. i would like to pay tribute to you, mr commissioner, and thank you for your great commitment. people want to move freely across borders. they also want to be able to trade goods and services without the costly and cumbersome rules of the old days. if you listen to some of my colleagues here, you seem to want to go back 20 or 30 years in europe, but that is not the solution. it has given us greater freedom of choice, lower prices, and a better standard of living. mr president, my great concern today is that the eu is being divided, that it is being divided, and that this could also affect the single market. i fully understand that the euro area must solve its problems and create stability in europe through, among other things, a banking union. but greater integration, madam president, must not mean that the single market too is in danger of being fragmented.
madam president, let me start by saying how good it was last week to celebrate together the great achievements of the integrated market, and i would like to congratulate commissioner barnier on all the initiatives of the commission. you managed, commissioner, to help us show that it is a win-win situation for all, for business and consumers; you gave a face to the single market. i welcome the single market mainly because of the commitment to moving forward in really finalising what is already in the pipeline, and i count on your support with the member states also to move forward. it is a commitment to a united europe. moving forward in the single market now is a way to keep together non-euro member states and euro member states. this is what this parliament wants. help us to move it forward with the member states, too. let us start with the digital single market. i very much appreciate your zero tolerance policy for the implementation of the services directive. let us move forward on the previous issues that are missing, such as access to credit for companies, the professional qualifications directive and dispute resolution online – this is the highway to jobs in europe.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. thank you, commissioner. i would also like to thank markus ferber for his successful work. this is a very technically complicated bill and he has managed to unite parliament on well-balanced compromises. these two bills are the foundation for restoring some of the confidence that was lost in the financial crash four years ago. we are tightening the rules, as i said, on high-frequency trading, and not everyone is completely satisfied. braking systems must be in place to reduce the risk of an uncontrolled stock market crash. we are increasing competition and transparency in the market by setting up a new trading platform, as the commissioner mentioned. we are making sure that small bond markets - and here i am a bit nationalistic - that the swedish get reasonable terms. we are strengthening the protection of savers by tightening the rules on the sale of savings products, as the rapporteur suggested. we are achieving, and this is important to me, greater freedom of choice, better competition and a more robust and better functioning capital market. mr president, the question of the prohibition of commissions, of inducements, has been the most difficult to agree on. self-cleaning and ethical guidelines have clearly not been sufficient to reduce aggressive sales of savings products. and here i admit as a liberal, a market liberal, that there is a problem. i admit that, mr goebbels. a general eu ban on commissions is the next step unless the industry takes a more serious stance. but we in the liberal group do not want to see a total ban on commissions throughout the eu today. the countries that want to have stricter rules, like the uk or the netherlands, are allowed to have them. the risk of a total ban is that the sale will result in those with lower incomes no longer being offered the free counselling they need. small insurance intermediaries risk being knocked out. mr president, financial advice must be available to all citizens at a reasonable cost. nor must competition and supply be reduced. transparency and openness are of paramount importance. it is an important part of ensuring greater protection for purchasers of savings products. i would like to thank mr ferber and all the shadow rapporteurs.
mr president, it is important to recognise that there are no stronger arguments for reform than in those member states that have lost competitiveness and in those economic sectors that lack competitiveness. that reform can never be forced upon member states, but there must be an understanding that reform is needed. increased deficits or increased spending or – referring to the debate we have had – a lower pension age do not solve any problems. we have seen, on the other hand, that the deficits and debt burdens are undermining not only public finances but also the competitiveness of eu member states. it is important to state that we do have a common commitment to making the reforms which are needed, but these must be based on political will and democratic support in each member state. i do not think we, from the european union, should regulate labour markets, because that must be left up to the different member states. however, i do think we need to ensure, and place emphasis on, a commitment to reforms which can guarantee that we have a functioning and dynamic single market that turns the world’s biggest economy into the world’s biggest and most dynamic market. this underscores the need for reforms to the single market to be accompanied by market reforms in the member states. i would like us to have a horizontal approach regarding the single market and market reforms, but also a vertical one, in each member state. this will facilitate, and ensure there is an opening-up to more competition, more plurality and more competitiveness. that should be the next step forward in the european semester – or whatever it is to be called – in the future. in order to do this we will need a commitment to making our european economies more competitive, and that is the task for us.
mr president, i would like to thank you. my impression is that the european semester is working better and better. at the same time, there are problems that need to be addressed. a key problem is the commission's tendency to encroach on the autonomy of the social partners in its country-specific recommendations. in this year's recommendations, the commission calls on a number of countries to restructure their national wage formation systems and to reduce national wage levels. the commission's behaviour is not acceptable. full respect for the autonomy of the parties is essential for the proper functioning of a labour market. furthermore, any attack on autonomy is contrary to fundamental trade union freedoms and rights. autonomy is enshrined in the ilo convention, the treaty on the functioning of the european union and the charter of fundamental rights of the european union. in this parliament we have recently clearly defended this autonomy in the positions taken on six-pack and two-pack. it is therefore clear that the commission must change its course on this issue.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to thank in particular the rapporteur, mr eider gardiazábal, who has done a great deal of work on this very difficult subject of the future. it has turned out to be a fantastically good report. the economic future of europe cannot be a matter of emergency measures to deal with the crisis. it is just as important to stimulate the economy in the long term as it is to increase growth-generating investment. the crisis is not only a consequence of the banking and financial collapse but has also been aggravated by a long-term decline in investment. it has gotten worse since the crisis, and now we are down to dangerously low levels of investment. at the same time, as the rapporteur pointed out, the investment needs are enormous. the problem is that with the current severe restrictions on the eu budget and on national budgets, the tightening of capital requirements on banks, and so on, we are not getting any money, but we have to find new ways forward. then there are financial instruments, including project bonds, which we agreed to test during a pilot phase this summer, based on my own report, among other things. in this context, we will ensure that, through eib loans guaranteed by the eu budget, project companies can issue bonds that are more secure and attractive, so that pension funds, for example, can invest in infrastructure projects instead of leaving money in different accounts. i am very pleased that the commissioner is now announcing that concrete projects are already being put on the table and contracts are being signed. the idea is to evaluate the pilot phase. we will see if we can raise even more money in the coming years and maybe also try other models with even more potential. i believe, however, that if we are to take europe out of austerity and recession back to sustainable growth and job creation, we need these new financial instruments.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – madam president, the green group and the pirate party welcome the participation of russia in multilateral trade forums, and we see it as an important step that russia has joined the world trade organisation. however, we believe that proper time must be given to russia to implement the wto requirements before we start talking about further bilateral negotiations on a free trade agreement with the eu. we agree that there is reason to remain vigilant on the eurasian customs union, but we cannot automatically assume it is incompatible with russia’s wto obligations. our group filed a number of amendments for which i would like to ask your support. in particular we would like to rethink the wisdom of paragraph 11, last indent, regarding pre-establishment investment protection and to request support for our amendment 8. russia has for a long time been the only country with a reasonably well-developed information and communications infrastructure that has not been subject to the trips agreement requirements. this has led to interesting developments in the field of content distribution in russia, not only in illegal downloading – a topic which we discuss with far too much aggression too frequently in our house – but also in distribution schemes that are, or were at the time of their emergence, legal under the russian system. at the same time the russian authorities appeared to have no regard for freedom of communication or freedom of information flows. at least once during my time of political involvement, russian authorities have casually shut down legal online distribution services at the request of foreign entities to accommodate the advancement of world trade organisation discussions. it would be a shame if the trips implementation chosen by russia turned out to hinder rather than foster the previously-mentioned spirit of solutions for online distribution for the future. and there is good reason for the european union to keep a close watch on the implementation of the trips obligations in russia. they establish a basis for economic interaction which depends completely on an administrative right, a monopoly granted by the government and its legal institutions to private parties. are we confident that the russian administration is consistent enough to provide such a basis? in the field of copyright in particular, the trips agreement and the present interpretation adopted by the disputes settlement body of the berne three-step test should cause us to feel concern for how future implementation of russian copyright will relate to freedom of speech and freedom of expression. already at european level we are suffering from inconsistencies with the application of notice and take-down orders. (the president requested the speaker to speak more slowly) one of the concerns raised in the european union by many stakeholders is that notice and take-down requests risk imposing arbitrary restrictions on freedom of speech and freedom of expression in the member states. similar objections have been raised in spain and france in the implementation of laws that grant rightholders the power to request the take-down of a web page through administrative requests rather than judicial process. the trips agreement does not establish any boundaries for enforcement. in theory it can be extended as far and as arbitrarily as a signatory party wants it to be extended. therefore we have to ask ourselves whether or not the situation in terms of freedom of speech and freedom of expression will be affected by the implementation of trips in russia. given our experiences in europe, we need to keep a close eye on this. we will also have the opportunity to revisit the question of the monitoring of communications. the situation in many european jurisdictions with the data retention directive and in terms of intermediary liability for intellectual property rights infringements is uncertain. also in russia there are extensive obligations on telecommunications providers and service providers to monitor the communications of their users. we have every reason to be vigilant so that the situation in russia does not deteriorate with respect to the monitoring of communications. in terms of access control and allegedly illegal content on line, the issue of blocking access to specific content has already been debated many times and by many people in the member states and here in parliament, but these proposals also exist in russia, again with the higher risk of arbitrary application and again with a broader scope than we would normally find in europe. if the european union wishes to see the implementation of human rights, freedom of speech, free journalism and a free press in russia, it will be important for us to establish – firstly for ourselves – open norms for free communication.
madam president, i want to share with you a story about a user comment on youtube that i found a few months ago. it says that the user is against pirated videos but really liked the song in question, and so offers ‘an apology for the copyright’. that perfectly encapsulates what is wrong with the copyright system – when users apologise for interacting with culture in a way that they find most natural to them. the song in question is a disco remix of a popular song made by gucci vump, a dj who carries the name of a luxury bag. in its unmixed form, the song in question has a music video clearly inspired by the hbo series game of thrones, which in turn is based on the very famous fantasy books by an author called george r.r. martin. i was struck, when i found this youtube video, by the user’s comments on his own behaviour and by how radically copyright contrasts with what he wants to do, but also by the many turns and twists that culture takes in our society to find its way into our lives and enrich our day-to-day existence.
madam president, i would like to thank you. mr commissioner, i would like to thank you for your reply. the change of power in georgia has taken place following democratic, fair and free elections, as recognised by the osce and the council of europe. this is a historic step for georgia, but more such transfers of power are needed before we can say with certainty that democracy and free elections have come to georgia to stay. during the transitional period, all political parties must demonstrate their ability to work together and take responsibility for georgia's future and its european path. it is cooperation and the ability to compromise that will determine whether the period of constitutional coexistence will be successful. in this sense, both mr saakashvili's quick acknowledgement that his party was defeated and mr ivanishvili's withdrawal of the demand for saakashvili's resignation give me hope that this cooperation and this willingness to compromise exist. i urge both gentlemen to work together for the good of georgia. it is also gratifying that the new government has expressed its willingness to continue on the european path and that mr ivanishvili intends to make his first trip to brussels. it is equally important to continue cooperation with nato and to continue euro-atlantic integration. the eu intends to further develop its relations with georgia. it is good for georgia and it is good for the eu.
mr president, i would like to thank you. a while ago, i was visiting my colleague and friend moso koa from the sam rainsy party in cambodia. what i saw around the country was horrifying, and the images i may carry with me forever. countless families have been victims of the confiscation of their homes and land. the government and big business have seized the land that families have worked for generations. those who have been affected have received no compensation but have been left to fend for themselves, without justice and without help. the eu's 'everything but arms' programme is a good initiative in principle, but it has actually had very negative effects on sugar and some other agricultural products, because the giant sugar companies have taken over and are now farming agricultural land. countless villages have been razed to the ground and thousands of families have been made homeless to make way for sugar plantations that are profiting from the lucrative agreement with the eu. i therefore welcome the fact that the agreement contains a call to suspend this, and appeal to cambodia to allow opposition leader sam rainsy to return to his country before the elections.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'commercial vehicle' to cover vehicles with a maximum mass exceeding 10 tonnes. we did so because we see a need for updated and improved legislation in this respect, in particular through more transparency and openness. there are, however, three areas where we remain sceptical. the first concerns competition between clearing houses at the close of trading. the proposal as it stands now risks restricting competition, which would be detrimental to the functioning of the market and to individual investors. the second concerns trading in commodity-related instruments, where several restrictions are introduced which risk leading to a deterioration in price formation. the third and final point concerns high-frequency trading, where the current wording of the proposal is aimed at regulating technological developments rather than the possible element of market abuse that may arise in the wake of these developments. we believe that technological progress should be encouraged, while abuses and irregularities should be tackled with increased supervision.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i did not expect any less from parliament, which has expressed itself very clearly on this issue. i must say that i am very shocked. you could pick any issue over which to have an institutional fight, but do not pick children. even if only one child’s life is put in danger because of this institutional fight, that is one too many. i am aware that the lives of children are at stake. we should finally stop playing games. that is the message i have for the member states, and i hope that they have heard the message from the european parliament. thank you for helping me to fight on this issue.
vice-president of the commission. − mr president, i think that we are all aware of the threat posed to public safety by terrorists. i do not need to recall the loss of life caused by indiscriminate attacks in recent years. this is a phenomenon which needs to be tackled from a number of angles. today we are dealing with one aspect: how to make it more difficult for violent extremists to obtain the ingredients for home-made explosives. the commission proposed this regulation two years ago. the aim was to put in place harmonised rules, limiting the access of the general public to certain explosive precursors that could be used in the illicit manufacture of explosives. these rules cover the making available of these substances to the public, as well as their possession and use. by acting at eu level, we can guarantee a harmonised approach and create a level playing field for retailers and for the public. i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr mulder, and the successive hungarian, polish, danish and cyprus presidencies for their excellent cooperation in this field. the commission welcomes the agreement reached by co-legislators. the text they have agreed upon will significantly improve our common security and bring tangible european added value. however, there is one institutional point of continued disagreement relating to the preparation of delegated acts, and on this point i would like to make the following declaration on behalf of the commission. the commission takes note of the agreement reached by co-legislators on article 91, as well as the unanimity in council; however, it recalls that article 290 is to be interpreted as meaning that the commission is autonomous in the preparation and adoption of delegated acts. the common understanding agreed between the three institutions is a reflection of that interpretation. accordingly, reference to consultation of experts should be contained in a recital, not in the enacting terms. the commission regrets that this principle was not respected and underlines that the present case cannot constitute a precedent. i hope, however, that tomorrow there will be a positive vote, so that the council can formally adopt the legislation before the end of the year. the commission is ready to do its part, notably by issuing guidelines on implementation before the new rules are applied, which means 18 months after the regulation enters into force.
on behalf of the ppe group. – mr president, in the peaceful summer of 2011, we were all shocked to learn that in norway – on an island where young people had been gathering – a massacre had been committed, and that the heart of oslo was also bombed out. according to europol, one of the reasons why we were able to find the perpetrator was that he had been buying a lot of the chemical materials that can be used to make explosives at home. that is why i welcome our finally coming together in the european union, in the member states, and hopefully also in this house tomorrow on this very good proposal from the commission – thank you, commissioner reding – on harmonising the existing rules to prevent such terrible accidents and incidents from happening again. terrorism and criminality are without borders – are cross-border – while our rules are fragmented and divergent. what is the next step forward? firstly, at least in most of the member states, the public will require a licence to be able to buy these explosives – these potential explosives – in a shop or with wholesalers. secondly, these chemical substances should not be sold above a certain concentration or a certain threshold that would make them suitable for making home-made explosives. thirdly, this legislation will ensure traceability, which means that economic operators will have to report when these materials have been bought in large quantities. i think we also have a good system for protecting data when these transactions are reported, and it is up to member states to define what kind of penalties will exist. this is a first step, and in three years’ time the commission will have to report back on whether there is a need to go further, and whether there is a need to harmonise further. i would invite the commission to monitor and follow this very closely to see whether the rules that we are now approving are adequate and sufficient to ensure the safety and security of our citizens. i think we have struck the right balance between safety and security, which was our primary concern, without adding red tape for companies, for farmers, or for hotels with swimming pools which need to be cleaned with chemicals. i also think that we have struck a balance between reporting and data protection. i would also like to welcome and thank the shadow rapporteur of the epp group, ms véronique mathieu, who is at this time unfortunately attending a very important meeting on criminality in her capacity as coordinator. i would however like to say that she very much enjoyed the cooperation with the rapporteur. we in the epp group believe that she has gone the extra mile to show flexibility and to come together with others on what is an extremely important piece of legislation to prevent criminality and terrorism and to protect our citizens in europe.
mr president, i would like to highlight one particular article in this report – article 32. it says that it is likely that more and more companies in europe will be dependent on having access to credit card payments and it urges the commission to come up with objective rules to say under what circumstances the big payment providers – visa, mastercard and paypal – may reject a business. this came up in the context of the wikileaks affair, when the same three big payment services decided to close down a whistleblowers’ website based in iceland – inside the european economic area – because of political pressure from the us. but we also saw only last week that there has been quite a lot of talk in the media about visa, mastercard and paypal deciding to close down a small shop that was selling horror movies simply because they do not like horror movies. i understand that they have now since changed their opinion on that, but it illustrates the problem and i hope the commission will look seriously at this.
mr president, our children are living, connecting, surfing, learning and communicating over the internet. this is a great opportunity and we have to stand up for their freedom. but at the same time, they are very exposed to risks such as grooming, mobbing, violence and pornography, and they are vulnerable consumers. that is why i very much welcome the comprehensive and deep approach to dealing with protection of children on the internet taken by silvia costa, the rapporteur, and welcome the fact that my points, which deal with the industry’s shared responsibility and the value of self-regulation, as well as the importance of moderate and responsible advertising, have been included, and i hope they will be supported. i have also put forward points on consent for children for the regulation on data protection which we are discussing. children do not have the same ability to understand and they need an easy and child-friendly language from the industry … (the president cut off the speaker)
mr president, we are again discussing the protection of children in the online environment and again it is painfully obvious that we barely know what we are dealing with. eu-sponsored research, for instance, shows that children normally do not perceive grooming as a problem to be solved and i think it would be good if, in our actions to censor or filter the internet, we stick to known facts. this might have been a good opportunity for parliament to criticise the fact that private parties are increasingly taking responsibility for what can and cannot be broadcast to users online. instead, the report endorses private regulation of what can be broadcast in terms of freedom of speech. but private companies are not constitutional courts and they cannot determine what constitutes a legitimate method for making a political speech. therefore, i will vote against this report which does not in my opinion balance the rights of children to determine what they communicate.
mr president, i would like to thank you. these are critical times. trust has been lost. our message to europe's leaders must be clear: do not divide the union. first a word on the banking union, and i hope sophia in 't veld doesn't think i'm succumbing to nationalism. the supervision of banks operating in several countries must be at european level. the ecb, together with eba and national supervisors, should be given a stronger role. for several countries, such as my own country sweden, which are not participating in the euro, it is important that the conditions for participating in the banking union do not provide excessive advantages for the euro countries. the ecb should be given equal influence by non-euro area countries. it is also important that countries with a large banking sector should be able to continue to impose higher capital requirements on their banks. the swedish government this week demanded a change in the treaty. it is reasonable to think that the influence requirements can be solved without changing the treaty, and i hope that this is possible. in conclusion, a plea: do not divide the union. keep all doors open for britain too. we know from history what a divided europe can lead to.
mr president, i thank the rapporteur and am glad we are having this debate, but i think it is important to underline one thing and that is that new institutions in the european union are no solution to the structural problems of the european economy. i sometimes think when we have debates like this that we are underestimating the strengths and opportunities of the european union we have. it is the genuine achievement of all the member states that united and integrated and it is the world’s biggest economy, but we are not able to make it the world’s biggest and most dynamic market. that is why i am concerned about some of the proposals we are discussing, because we are risking more fragmentation rather than unity regarding developing the opportunities of the single market. i think in the end, if we do not do it right, we are risking a weaker europe with more fragmentation, instead of a stronger europe using all the opportunities. we need better supervision and we can achieve that all together. we need better crisis management of banks and we can achieve that. we need moral stability in public finances and we have the rules for that, but now we need to ensure that everyone is following that. we need to have lower taxes in order to become competitive, not new taxes. there is no new money. just because we have a tax at european level that does not mean that it is free for the european citizens. we need to have an entrepreneurial single market at european level where the commissioner here is responsible and doing his utmost, but also at the member state level. we need to apply the single rule book. a lot of the things we need to do today we can do today and they will not be solved by institutional structures for tomorrow. we can make a stronger europe today. ( the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8))
blue-card answer. – mr martin, if you take a look around the world, where do you see prosperity rising and where do you see poverty? prosperity is rising where there are open economies, free trade and entrepreneurial room for new activities – all over the world. if you look around in europe, at the crisis economies, do you really think our crisis economies have too much market economy? i would say rather that they have too much regulation, bureaucracy, monopoly and licences hindering economic development. if you are ready to take responsibility for a stronger europe, then let us use the best of our experience and make europe strong by opening it up for european citizens to do their utmost to put europe in the lead. that should be your responsibility as well as all the others.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. we have done so with reservations, however, because we believe that decisions on social policy should be taken at national level and be the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the definition of the term 'competent authority'. we have, however, done so with reservations because we believe that decisions on social policy should be taken at national level and be the responsibility of the member states.
in writing. − resale rights constitute part of the rights inflation in the european union and introduce an additional layer of transfer rights where people who are already protected get additional protection from institutions incapable of detecting rent-seeking when they see it. despite the wonderful advances made in communications technologies, in terms of cultural freedoms our governments put in place systems that make us pay more while getting less. the cultural industries are suffering from such extreme ownership concentration that cultural diversity is, at least commercially, a joke. parliament has failed to recognise the extensive rent-seeking going on in the cultural industries in this report, and had additionally suggested that these high-level reverse robin hood rights be imposed on third countries. therefore i rejected the report.
in writing. − the pirate party is fully aware of the many challenges faced by children and young people in digital environments. however, in this report parliament has failed to address all these challenges. instead of safeguarding freedom of expression and open communication and contacts, the report encourages a sense of responsibility for what is good, legal and democratic debate among private actors rather than the judiciary. but private companies are not constitutional courts, and have neither the expertise, knowledge nor the ability to make such difficult demarcation. the consistent stigmatisation of children and young people's interactions with other people also does not protect children and risks damaging children's natural attitudes towards adults and the world around them. that is why the pirate party voted against this report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competent authority' in the context of the directive. on the one hand, there are a number of good papers on the social and democratic dimensions and on the importance of respecting and taking account of the interests of non-euro countries. the clear position of the parliament on the establishment of a social protocol within the eu is particularly welcome. on the other hand, there are writings on the further integration of the euro area which are problematic and in some details misguided. it is important that the euro countries do what they need to do to stabilise the single currency, but it is also important that the process of integration does not become too hasty or too far-reaching.
in writing. the report also calls for the eu to be able to take action to combat terrorism and to ensure that the eu is able to take action to combat terrorism. however, the report contains some specific proposals, justifications and comments, with which i do not fully agree.
for the verts/ale group. president. - the debate is closed. i would first like to remind you of rebecca harms' demand that the conference of presidents or the conference of speakers quickly decide on the exhibition outside. our lobbying policy says you must clearly identify the sender. if you claim to represent the citizens but are actually a company, it's not in line with our guidelines. i want you to make a decision quickly. now for the shale gas. i think this is the ultimate picture of the extremely greedy man who is drilling thousands of feet underground to crack the rock to extract the last remnants of fossil energy. it paints a tragic picture of where humanity is. we should not waste the little capital we have for investment on extracting even more fossil fuels. already discovered reserves of coal, gas and oil are so large that if we use them we would have a total climate catastrophe. to waste money on finding even more fossil fuels is a waste of capital and environmental destruction and against the future of humanity. in addition, there are some specific problems with shale gas, namely fracking, which are mentioned in the resolution. we are calling for an update of europe's environmental laws. it is about environmental impact assessments, waste directives and how we are going to manage geological stability, water use, land use and also classifying toxic fracking fluids as hazardous waste and classifying them properly under reach. the resolution also calls for prohibitions in particularly sensitive areas. it is important that we maintain it and i am advocating a general moratorium until all this is settled. this gas has no future. finally, it is important that we measure the baseline values so that we cannot make claims as have been made in the united states, where environmental information is contractually kept secret. in europe, it is also illegal to withhold environmental information about gas leaks and other problems in order to keep it from the public. (the speaker agreed to answer a question (blue card) in accordance with rule 149 (8) of the rules of procedure).
blue-card answer. – madam president, there are two specific problems. the exhibition is in front of the plenary chamber and is before the vote, and additionally they are not being honest about who they are. it is actually better that you have your logo and that you are honest about who you are and who you are representing rather than hiding behind it and calling yourselves a citizens’ initiative instead of naming the companies behind it, which is actually against the rules. to be a company and say who you are is not against the rules. that is why i am complaining. (the speaker agreed to take a blue-card question under rule 149(8)).
answer "blue card". in the case of reach, you have to register for a specific use and i made the requirement that if you are going to use these liquids you have to register for that specific use before these chemicals can be used. as regards the moratorium, it is true that the countries have the right to use their resources in accordance with the eu acquis, and that is why i said moratorium and not prohibition. for a moratorium means that we wait for the european regulatory framework to cover all the possible negative consequences of this before we start using the fluids, and therefore it is logical to call for a moratorium until the regulatory framework is in place, so it is fully in line with the treaty.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the arguments against shale gas are very strong. there's been a lot of talk about the extraction method, and i'm not going to repeat it, but it's pretty scary. another important argument is that gas is a fossil fuel. we would therefore be investing heavily in another fossil energy source instead of expanding renewable energy. we must also bear that in mind. as my colleague kriton arsenis pointed out just now: the utopia of cheap gas for all eternity in a market which would not work is nothing more than a dream. what we as members of the european parliament must do is respect each country's right to decide on its own energy sources, but we must also uphold the precautionary principle. we are going to insist on the polluter pays principle, we are going to insist on long-term sustainability, and that must be decisive for how we vote tomorrow.
on behalf of the verts/ale group. – mr president, colleagues, i am very happy that parliament has taken the time to discuss the issue of the upcoming world conference on international telecommunications. too often when important positions on how we can communicate or not are taken at an international level, they escape the eye of the public and they do not get sufficient attention. i do believe that parliament has shown in this last week that it is able to represent the interests of the public when it comes to international telecommunications. we have drafted a resolution which shows very clearly where the parliament stands on issues of regulating the internet and information and communication technologies. we also addressed the issue of transparency in the wcit and itu processes that was brought up by the council earlier this evening. i would like just to extend my thanks to colleagues from all of the political groups for their collaboration and i hope that the council and the commission will take our proposals on board in their future work.
mr president, i think there is a broad agreement in this house with the commission and with the council that the most important task is to defend the freedom of the internet and i think it is extremely good to hear how deep that agreement is. we all know, and it has been said here, that the freedom of internet has been a pre-condition for the development of the internet as such. we all know that the freedom of the internet has meant the freedom of information, the freedom of expression. the freedom of the internet has changed our societies, is changing our societies and will change our societies – provided we are able to keep it free and independent. we all know that there are a lot of forces, a lot of regimes who would like to hinder this development, just for the reasons we have pointed to, because they are afraid of the freedom of expression. they are afraid of the freedom of information and that is why the european union must be extremely clear and must take a decisive line to defend this freedom and independence. but also to secure that we do not give any excuses for those who would like to intervene. it is important that we do not give opportunities to block services or accept that this is being done anywhere else because that will always be used by those forces and those regimes that are most eager to hinder the freedom of expression and the freedom of information, but who are also blocking the importance of the internet itself. we will see the same changes in the future as we have seen in the past and the best way to secure the internet is that we defend it against any regime that wants to hinder its development. i appreciate that the council and commission as well as the political groups here have been so decisive on this issue.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. believe it or not, at this late hour we are discussing the 28th in the series of reports on the monitoring of the application of eu law. it's almost like you want to pull on your smile bands a little. i would like to say that there is a lot of good in this report and i would like to thank my colleague, eva lichtenberger, for her excellent work, as always. at the same time, i regret that year after year we are faced with the same poor implementation of eu law by our member states. this is remarkable. of course we can go on writing the 29th and 30th reports, where we repeatedly stress the importance of transparency and openness, correlation tables and so on, but i am not sure that would make any major difference to the citizens of europe. we have here an excellent report which will be adopted tomorrow, probably by a very large majority. i would like to ask the commissioner, who is here and is participating at this late hour, if he is willing to open a real debate with parliament on these matters. can parliament receive a written reply with comments on each of the 38 points covered by the report? i believe that this could be the beginning of a constructive and genuine dialogue in the true sense of the word and it would definitely increase the credibility of our work among the citizens of the eu in the future.
mr president, this debate is not really about money. the budget corresponds to only about 2% of european public expenditure; it has been falling as a proportion of the member states’ economies for years and contrary to what mr callanan and mr farage believe, the main criticism from the court of auditors is not against the european institutions but on how eu money is handled by member states. the member states who fight for cuts are the strongest ones; the ones who can pay if they feel that the union is worth defending. no, it is not about money; this is a fight over the european model and the future of europe. the reason why we social democrats, together with a huge majority of parliament, defend the budget even in times of crisis is that the budget is the most significant expression of our fundamental policies. it is about european and even global solidarity. it is about creating a european added value and the basic idea that the growth we are striving for is not just any growth but is based on the principle of economic, social and environmental sustainability, is about green jobs and smart and inclusive growth. these are fundamental things which will not be funded without the european union. let me mention just a few examples. who will fund the completion of the single market including a modern cross-border transport energy and digital infrastructure if not the eu budget? who will start breaking the vicious circle of austerity if we do not do it together? who will provide the contribution to the innovative financial instruments including project bonds for funding investments? i mean, with all the restrictions on national budgets, on banks and financial institutions, only the european union can do it. how can we respect our commitment to funding the millennium development goals if not through the eu budget? it is obvious that member states under pressure will not even fulfil their commitments to allocate 0.7 % of gni to development aid. we need the european union for that. against the background of new devastating research on the effects of climate change no member state is big enough to mitigate climate change on its own. we must do it together and the european union is the major global actor in this field. even if some of us do not like common agricultural policies we must ask: who will finance the greening of agriculture and the greening of fisheries and the more sustainable development of those policies if we do not do it together? so this is not about money; it is about giving the european union the chance to finally realise the role we all agreed on in the lisbon treaty.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'common carrier' in the definition of the term 'commercial vehicle'. the report emphasizes environmental considerations and the study of long-term consequences for the environment, water, air, etc. i also voted in favour of proposals which stress the importance of protecting groundwater and banning extraction in sensitive and threatened areas. the member states themselves decide on the exploitation of their own energy resources, but at the same time i voted in favour of strongly urging the member states not to authorize new activities in the eu related to hydraulic fracturing. this is in view of the risks and the negative climate, environmental and health impacts as well as gaps identified in the eu regulatory framework for shale gas extraction. i think it is important to point out that the extraction of shale gas and shale oil, which is a fossil fuel, poses serious risks to human health and the environment. i would prefer to see no extraction at all, but continued investment in energy efficiency and renewable energy sources.
in writing. - as regards the report by the committee on industry on shale gas and oil, i share the view that policy-makers should have access to more comprehensive scientific data (e.g. carbon footprint data) in order to make well-informed choices. i understand that there is an economic potential for shale gas extraction and that the emphasis is therefore on adapting systems, investments, regulations, legislation, etc., but not at the high human and environmental cost.
mr president, i would like to thank you. at the cancún climate summit, the 1.5°c global temperature goal was described as the limit that the earth could tolerate without too dramatic consequences. in durban, it was changed to the 2 degree target, and earlier this week, the forecast came out that today's climate policies are leading us to 4 degrees of warming, which is a very scary figure. the question that a lot of people ask me is: is it too late already? what measures and decisions can break such a strong negative trend? is that even possible? these are the questions we are trying to answer. what we also need to do in doha is to ensure that the eu can act in unison, as many here have already pointed out, but also to think about how to get china and the united states back seriously to the joint negotiating table. we can hope that the new governments and leaders in the united states and china are prepared to take new steps, but it really depends on us. we did good last time, but we have to do even better. we must contribute to concrete results and to the people's ability to continue to hope.
mr president, i would like to thank you. despite the economic crisis, we in the epp also support enlargement. there are a few important points that we are making in the report. the most important thing is that we emphasize our strong support for the enlargement process, not least at a time when less democratic and less european forces are trying to convince us that europe is about something else than freedom, peace and security. it is also important that we recognise that enlargement is good for the candidate countries and for europe. it is a good framework within which to discuss our political visions and the fulfilment of the criteria by the candidate countries, which is so important for the credibility of the enlargement process. the new serbian government, for example, has taken chapter 23 seriously and has done a very good job in the fight against corruption and organised crime. however, some elements of the structures of the previous government still have influence and sometimes make this work difficult. so we must be alert and help when and where needed. like my colleague eduard kukan, i too think that this report places a little too much emphasis on things like the social dimension and the capacity of the eu to integrate. i would have liked to have had a clearer definition of the visions and security aspects of enlargement. finally, i would like to thank you, commissioner, for your personal commitment to these issues. your commitment is so much more than just your work. you're doing a great job, and i want to thank you for that.
rapporteur. − mr president, as the rapporteur on the international dimension of the common fisheries policy reform, i am quite proud today to say that ‘we have actually done it’! in the almost unanimous vote in the committee on fisheries, colleagues supported, and to a large extent improved, my draft report, so that it now clearly sets out the future principles for the eu external fishing fleet and how it can be sustainable in all its activities. it shows how the eu can become a leader by setting an example of responsible behaviour by a long-distance fishing nation, worldwide. what we have achieved is quite remarkable. we reached a consensus that the eu should negotiate a fisheries agreement only where there is a clearly and scientifically-proven surplus of fish that is not needed by local fishermen or people in the region. of course, the fish stocks must also be in good condition. we agreed that the same rules – for instance, on discarding fish – should apply to eu vessels whether they are operating inside or outside the union. we also agreed to introduce a human rights clause into fisheries agreements so that, if there is a serious violation of human rights in a third country, the protocols shall be suspended. we stated the need to decouple access fees from the money for so-called sectoral support in a clear way, so that poor countries should not be tempted to sell more fish in order to get more development aid. widespread support was also shown for the concept of regional agreements. the eu should not use its strength to negotiate agreements with countries in developing parts of the world one by one, but rather should encourage regional cooperation, which would lead to better management of fishery resources and transparency on total catches. we also recognise that the eu and its member states have responsibilities in relation to the many private operators owned by eu interests, but often flying other flags, that are fishing all over the world. the committee also recognised our heavy responsibility as the greatest fish consumer market in the world, importing and eating 11% of all the world’s catches in terms of volume. i do not want to hide the fact that there is some controversial content in the report and that the biggest group in parliament is still trying to get these things out of tomorrow’s vote – the anti-flag hopping clause, for example, the exclusivity clause and the statement that vessel owners should pay a considerable market-based share of the access fees. i regret this and i really hope that those – even in the epp group – who want to see the eu leading by example on issues relating to environmental sustainability, fair trade and respect for human rights, will not try to delete the paragraphs in question. one paragraph that i would like to emphasise is paragraph 7, which is about greater coordination inside the commission and among member states. that is really necessary if we are to achieve policy coherence on development, in accordance with article 208 of the treaty on the functioning of the european union. we cannot have the eu negotiating a fisheries agreement and using development aid and trade agreements as a means of pressure to push through access to fishing grounds in developing countries. i believe we have a great report here that can not only change the impact of the eu on the world’s oceans, but could also change how all distance-fishing nations behave. if we can show that the eu is willing to change, poor countries will have an easier time stipulating conditions for other distance-fishing nations. with this report we have started a race to the top in terms of good standards. i want to thank all the shadow rapporteurs, the assistants and advisers who helped with the report. we have the promise here of a great success.
the committee on the environment, public health and food safety has tabled an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? the salmon is endangered and the main threat to the salmon is fishing and hydropower. it's not the seals and the cormorants that eat the majority of the salmon. this is important and i am pleased that the committee on fisheries has approved many of the proposals of the committee on the environment, particularly with regard to the 80% reproductive capacity target and to stricter and clearer regulation of recreational, domestic and sport fisheries, as these account for a significant proportion of catches. in addition, it is good that we have improved reporting systems in general, and what i lack in the report of the committee on fisheries is what we approved in the committee on the environment, namely to stop sea fishing, because it is not selective. you may catch the few necessary wild salmon to return to the areas where they must breed, namely endangered fairies. i welcome the proposal, by the way. this could be the beginning of the salmon's recovery, and it's not just good for the environment. it's an economic benefit to many interests in society and it creates thousands of jobs. more fish means more jobs and more money.
mr president, i would like to thank you. as a resident of northern sweden, i hope that with tomorrow's decision we will take important steps to ensure that the reproductive capacity of wild salmon in the baltic sea is improved, but there is certainly much more to be done in the future. i actually asked for the floor to ask about shark fins. when i was new to the committee on fisheries in february, i was caught up in a discussion about the shark fin and i was surprised because i think it is 10 years since it was banned. if it was banned 10 years ago and it's still going on, we have to do something. i am very pleased that with tomorrow's decision we will hopefully close the loopholes in the current rules. fishing rules must be adapted to the objective, easy to implement on the water and equally easy to control in port. in this way we will effectively stop the misconduct without making it worse.
rapporteur. − mr president, thank you to all the colleagues who have commented on and supported the report on the external dimension of the common fisheries policy. we really appreciate the commission’s original proposal and we also appreciate that the commission welcomes the additional dimension that we have added to the external communication – the inclusion of the issues of trade, private agreements and private operators from the eu that are actually fishing outside of the eu waters. they should somehow also be included, in our view, in the external dimension of the cfp. the eu is now very dependent on imports of fish. we are importing 60%, but the 40% that is counted as ‘domestic fisheries’ is actually 23% of the value of that, through the fisheries partnerships agreements. so this is really not sustainable. what we are doing is not sustainable; we are making ourselves more and more dependent on fish from foreign seas, and this is not how the eu should proceed. if we want to take responsibility for our own consumption of fish, we must first rebuild european stocks. we should therefore take the reform of the cfp really seriously and rebuild all the european stocks to levels above those capable of producing msy. secondly, in our fisheries partnerships agreements we take development cooperation seriously and help developing countries to develop their own fisheries industry so that they can support their own populations and perhaps export some of the fish to us. that is the way to go.
mr president, i would like to thank you. it feels a little odd to be debating support for the solar cell industry. it is something we usually discuss, but then it is that europe should give more support to the development and research of solar cell production in europe. now we are discussing criticism of china for allegedly giving too much support to its industry. if we decide to impose these anti-dumping duties, they could be the biggest anti-dumping duties we have ever imposed. therefore, it is important to be very careful and very thorough. there are very large values at stake. it is not just european solar production that is at stake, but also trade relations with china and our energy and climate policies. because these are not the only anti-dumping duties we have on renewable energy. we already have anti-dumping duties on biodiesel, ethanol and even the plastics used to make wind turbines. i therefore call on the commission to make the overall assessment it is required to make in this inquiry, to take the community interest seriously and to examine the implications of this also for our energy and climate policy.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gróbaczyk report on a management plan for salmon in the baltic sea, as it contains very important components which will improve the state of wild salmon, such as phasing out farmed salmon discharges, as well as reporting requirements also for domestic and recreational fisheries. however, we failed to find political support for phasing out all fishing for salmon in the high seas and to introduce a common minimum size for salmon and herring, which would have reduced the risks of misreporting and fraud. nevertheless, i think that the gróbaczyk report is a very big step forward compared to the present situation.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the gróbaczyk report on a management plan for salmon in the baltic sea, as it contains very important components which will improve the state of wild salmon, such as phasing out farmed salmon discharges, as well as reporting requirements also for domestic and recreational fisheries. however, we failed to find political support for phasing out all fishing for salmon in the high seas and to introduce a common minimum size for salmon and herring, which would have reduced the risks of misreporting and fraud. nevertheless, i think that the gróbaczyk report is a very big step forward compared to the present situation.
in writing. the european union is committed to the principle of subsidiarity and the principle of subsidiarity must be respected. but we do not support the call for the member states to increase european cooperation in the field of defence and to develop permanent structured cooperation in the field of security and defence which could lead to a common defence. we believe that the report fails to address the reservations against this. we also think it was important to have a document which also addresses the member states' perspectives on the matter and takes account of the different traditions and positions of the member states in the field of security and defence.
in writing. - i voted in favour of the report, but against the proposal for a legislative act on the main procurement of european civil-military research and procurement financed by the eu under horizon 2020, the commission communication 'a stronger european industry for growth and economic recovery' and against the launch of a planning process for a european defence. i see a need for structures of cooperation within the eu, but at the same time i am in favour of a strong distinction between the eu and nato.
in writing. the european parliament has already adopted a resolution on the situation in the former yugoslavia. we would like to stress, however, that this should not affect the freedom of member states to form military alliances. we would have liked to have seen a paper that took up the wording of article 42 (7) of the eu treaty that the eu's solidarity clause and the mutual defence clause should not affect the specific nature of the security and defence policy of certain member states. we do not support the writings on the need for the gradual formulation of a common defence policy aimed at a common defence which would strengthen the european identity and the strategic autonomy of the eu and harmonize the eu's defence policy.
in writing. - i voted against joão ferreira's own-initiative report on small-scale fishing, although i broadly agree with the content and the importance of giving a high degree of consideration and priority to small-scale fishing in the forthcoming reform of the cfp. however, i do not think that the right way to favour small-scale fishermen is to provide financial compensation for increased fuel prices, to compensate fishermen for not fishing during periods when fish are not allowed to fish, or to provide aid for the storage of fish on land. the best way to support small-scale fishermen is to give them priority access to fishery resources, to support the processing of their own fishery products where appropriate and, above all, to ensure that stocks grow so that they can make a reasonable profit from their fishing.
in writing. - i voted against joão ferreira's own-initiative report on small-scale fishing, although i broadly agree with the content and the importance of giving a high degree of consideration and priority to small-scale fishing in the forthcoming reform of the cfp. however, i do not think that the right way to favour small-scale fishermen is to provide financial compensation for increased fuel prices, to compensate fishermen for not fishing during periods when fishing is not allowed, or to provide support for the storage of fish on land. the best way to support small-scale fishermen is to give them priority access to fishery resources, to support the processing of their own fishery products where appropriate and, above all, to ensure that stocks grow so that they can make a reasonable profit from their fishing.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of the resolution on the 2014 european elections because we believe it is important to set the date for the european elections. however, we do not share the view that european political parties should nominate candidates for the post of president of the commission and that these candidates should take a leading role in the parliamentary election campaign. we also do not share the view that member states should propose two candidates, one man and one woman, for each commissioner's post, or that as many members as possible of the future commission should be drawn from the members of the european parliament. the choice of commissioners shall be based on the priorities of each member state and the pursuit of the best possible candidate.
in writing. − the next elections to the european parliament will be held in 2014. in order to prepare parties, candidates and, above all, voters, it is important to determine when the elections will take place. in order to clarify the democratic legitimacy, it is also important for voters to have the opportunity to know what options are available for the president of the commission. that is why i voted in favour of the amendment which introduces this and for the resolution as a whole. however, now that amendment no 3 has been adopted, the resolution contains statements which i do not support. it is against the basic democratic values that one must have held a certain public office, in this case a member of the european parliament, to be able to take up a public office as a commissioner. it leads to the arbitrary dispossession of people, the elitisation of those in power and the democratic fragmentation of europe. it's simply unfair and something i oppose.
writer. - mr president! - what is it? there has been some positive development in burma, but it is overshadowed by the fact that since june over 100 000 refugees have been forced to flee because of what could be called an ethnic cleansing policy, because these refugees are actually living in terrible conditions. those of you in the audience right now, imagine if all your children were malnourished. imagine this whole hall being filled and strasbourg being filled with undernourished people fleeing. it's a completely unreasonable development in burma right now. the fact that governments such as the swedish government are going to burma under these circumstances to discuss arms deals and other trade relations does not harmonize with our view of human rights and arms exports. i want the eu to take overall responsibility and ensure that the embargoes that exist are maintained and demand access to these regions in order for us to be able to provide assistance. if the burmese government itself is unwilling, unable or, on the contrary, absolutely unwilling to help these people, then it is our duty to see that it is done. we must also, with the help of the trade and other agreements we have with burma, create the conditions necessary for the people on the ground to be able to receive aid. the development is catastrophic and it surprises me a little that these very people call themselves buddhists. their own religion preaches nonviolence while spreading violence at home. this is absurd. they should look in the mirror, read their religious scriptures once more and realize that this is a total violation of their own values, not just european values.
for the alde group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. there's really only one word that captures the feeling i'm carrying inside me today, and that's the word finally. finally, we have succeeded in creating what the eu has failed to do for almost four decades, namely a common european patent, despite the fact that we all knew how much good such a patent could do for individuals, inventors, innovators, universities and colleges, smes, entrepreneurs, etc. it's been a long and difficult journey. in the end, closer cooperation between 25 of the 27 member states was needed to reach an agreement. but i would also like to stress today that the door is wide open for spain and italy, which have so far chosen to remain outside, and that these countries are welcome as soon as they consider it desirable. i look forward to their choosing the common path in the future. today i would like to express my special thanks to commissioner barnier for his and the commission's tireless work on this proposal. i am glad, together with the commissioner, that he is the one who brought this matter to the attention of the house. i would also like to thank the three rapporteurs of the european parliament, mr rapkay, mr lehne and mr baldassarre, who have led the work of this parliament in an efficient and very constructive way, and i am glad to have been part of that. it has always been the liberal group's natural policy to promote the emergence of a single european patent, providing uniform protection combined with a single european patent court for dispute settlement. in the future, it will no longer be necessary to spend more than ten times as much to protect an invention in europe as in the united states. an individual inventor or a small enterprise should not have to defend his patent against infringement in parallel legal proceedings in several european countries at the same time, but in a single european patent court with common european procedural rules. in this process, my aim has been to ensure that we maintain the balance of the european patent system while creating a system without unnecessary administrative burdens, and we have succeeded well. this is a historic day. we have laid a cornerstone in strengthening the eu's single market to enable growth and prosperity in our member states in the days ahead. this is extremely important because we must dare to see europe beyond the crisis. i'm not saying that patents are the answer, but it's one of many tools that will ensure prosperity and growth in the future.
mr president, the green group, including the pirate party, would have wanted a unitary patent – and we still want a unitary patent – if by this we mean a proper unitary patent integrated into the legal and political structures of the eu. unfortunately, what we see and what we have here on the table – and for which there appears to be a majority in favour – is the very opposite of that. this agreement means that parliament will abdicate all its political powers over the future of the patent system to an intergovernmental organisation that is outside the eu. it means that the court system, the legal system of this new patent, will be outside the proper eu legal system. this is a bad thing for innovation, a bad thing for lots of things in europe. so why does it matter? as has been mentioned, we have for several decades had the european patent office which is an international organisation outside the eu, outside the control of the eu, outside the control of parliament. we can see what this has led to. the treaty that is the foundation of the work of the european patent office, the european patent convention (epc), explicitly says that you cannot patent software, you cannot patent life, etc. we know that the european patent office does not care about this. it grants those patents anyway, using various legal formulas. for software, for instance, they say, ‘oh no, we would never allow patents on software as such, we would only allow patents on software that runs on computers’. this is obviously a rubbish argument but that is how they work. this would have been an opportunity to bring the patent system into line, to get it under judicial and political control, but we have missed that opportunity by simply abdicating and giving more power to this organisation outside the law. i would really urge colleagues to reconsider this because, yes, we do have different opinions about the patent system, but there is one thing that we do actually agree on: we agree that how the patent system works is important for the european economy. we all agree that a good patent system is good for the economy, it is good for innovation, it is something that we want, whereas a bad system is harmful and quite bad. since we agree on this, it makes no sense at all to abdicate power over this and to give away one of the few things that we, as politicians, can actually do through legislation. i urge all colleagues, please, to support the green amendments and let us start working towards a real unitary patent.
madam president, i would like to thank you. it is good that the new eu patent finally seems to be coming into place. this is a good reform. the innovation climate is improved by making the patent easier and cheaper to manage. better conditions for innovative european companies will strengthen them in the face of increasingly tough global competition. this in turn is important for europe to boost both growth and job creation. in fact, the eu patent is one of the best growth news in a long time. there will be some objections to the deal now on the table. many of them are fraudulent, and some of them are legitimate. my view is that the agreement is not perfect, but it is nevertheless a good compromise, given the circumstances. the new rules are balanced. the new patent system will be fully operational. so it's only natural for me to say yes to the deal. it is indeed high time that we went from words to action in the field of the european patent.
in writing. − completing the digital single market is a relevant own-initiative report which raises many important topics for the development of digital services for european citizens. it forgets, however, to raise one of the most outstanding issues for knowledge services today: the lack of flexibility in copyright law. parliament must start requesting a more balanced approach to access to knowledge from the commission. our single-minded focus on enforcement of copyright, without questioning what is actually enforced, ultimately does much damage to our communities, our social and cultural cohesion, as well as our economic development. therefore, i rejected this report.
in writing. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of electronic data interchange. in times of crisis, the single market is the highway to recovery, growth and more jobs. this is even more true online, where there is a huge untapped potential. e-commerce also increases access to goods and services in rural areas and is an important complement to physical stores. i am committed to breaking down barriers to e-commerce and to building trust in online commerce across borders. different rules make it harder for both small businesses and consumers. for example, problems arise with purchases that do not go through when you buy from a website in another eu country. such discrimination should no longer exist in our common market. i therefore welcome the fact that the report promotes the free movement of goods and services and simple, common rules. it is important to create safer payments, improve deliveries by opening up to more competition, simplify administrative rules, increase transparency and legal certainty to create more confidence in online shopping across europe and at the same time invest in broadband for all. i am particularly pleased that my proposal for the commission to apply an 'e-commerce test' was widely supported, to ensure that single market rules do not create unnecessary barriers to e-commerce.
in writing. - we support the report because it is important that we do more to facilitate e-commerce and complete the digital single market. however, we would have liked to see an even stronger wording on advertising directed at children than that in paragraph 77. the commercial pressure on children is constantly increasing through new methods and channels. this raises new requirements for the rules on advertising to children. internet and mobile marketing are now often an integral part of entertainment, and a purchase is never more than a click away. advertisers, producers and other business leaders must take greater responsibility. advertising for alcohol and tobacco must not be directed at children under any circumstances. however, there is also a need for increased enforcement, including on the internet and in various mobile applications, in particular with regard to the requirements for clear advertising identification and good marketing practice. as regards paragraph 59 on the proposal for a european sales code, we question the legal basis and whether the differences in civil law are really as important for the internal market as the commission claims. we are also concerned about the idea that the trader should decide on the choice of the buying team.
in writing. − this report raises the topic of equal treatment of smes and larger companies. unfortunately it also mistakenly claims that the commission has decided to revise the intellectual property rights enforcement directive from 2004. in the commission working programme from 2012 it instead says that the commission will not do this. with so many scrutinising eyes in the committee and in the staff of the committee, one would hope that these errors were normally caught, but factual errors often slip through parliament’s net for ideologically misguided reasons. that could be one of the reasons why respect for parliament among citizens is generally very low.
in writing. − it is with happiness and pride that i was able to vote for the adoption of ms schaake’s report today. it raises relevant and urgent topics for the future of eu foreign policy and suggests a lot of courses of action that, if implemented, i believe would leave a better world for our coming generations. it is a report which does not shy away from important and difficult discussions. the biggest challenge for our common european future will be how to transform these recommendations into something applicable, also on our own inner market.
in writing. − i voted in favour of the report because i agree with its overall conclusion that the internet should be open, neutral, governed by the rule of law and in no way used for the repression of human rights. i do, however, feel that the primary actor in this matter is and should continue to be the member state, and only when these objectives cannot be achieved through the action of member states is action at eu-level appropriate.
in writing. − i have chosen to reject the creation of unitary patent protection at this instance. i believe parliament is getting a bad deal from the commission and the council and that this will minimize our chances of participating in the further dialogue on unitary patents. i dislike the way we are outmanoeuvred by the other institutions in these important debates, and had hoped that the rapporteur would find it equally difficult to accept.
in writing. - i welcome the fact that, after many years of negotiations, we have finally reached an agreement on unitary european patent protection and a patent court. it is an important step towards boosting the eu's competitiveness and opening up more innovation. with a single european patent as a simple 'one-stop-shop', we reduce costs and red tape, create more legal certainty and opportunities for businesses, universities and inventors, and contribute to a better functioning internal market with less fragmentation. it is important that the agreement also contains specific measures to simplify the application of patents for smes. in times of crisis, this is a concrete tool to make the eu more competitive, also on the global market.
in writing. − the unitary patent protection, as created, does not create a unitary patent protection. interpretation of the law will still be highly dependent on member states. the proposed system maintains the problems faced by small and medium-sized enterprises and it does not address the outstanding issue of functional claims in patent applications – claims which apply to a problem, rather than a solution. the limitations and exceptions to the law are few and badly-worded, a mistake at a time of more dependence on free information and where patent litigation proliferates, making clarity in patents of the essence. i would have hoped that the parliament could have let this debate mature further before taking a final decision.
in writing. − the jurisdictional problem in europe for patent law is a very serious one which creates much legal uncertainty and space for legal manoeuvring, particularly by multinational companies. unfortunately, an own-initiative report has added to a pile of legislative resolutions which do not appropriately tackle this issue and cannot remedy these problems. it is also doubtful that the issues raised in this report would fix the problems we have seen in, for instance, mobile phone patent disputes. therefore i have rejected this own-initiative report.
in writing. − i have already criticised this agreement in this plenary room in the spring. it is badly balanced in how it restricts information flows through its intellectual property rights chapters and maximalist provisions. it is better for the european union and many of its citizens if we, in our international trade relations, consider also the trade-restricting effects that arise from zealous intellectual property rights enforcement. we must also consider the social and cultural damage we are doing to institutionally weaker jurisdictions by forcing on them an ipr enforcement system which they may not adequately be able to balance against important rights such as freedom of speech and right to education. i am disappointed that parliament could not find it in their hearts to postpone this vote, and i have rejected the agreement.
mr president, i would like to thank you. i agree with helga trüpel that the compromise we have does not cover all our needs, but it is nevertheless necessary for two reasons. first of all: with this compromise, we'll save the bulk of the sixth amendment budget. it is necessary for the eu to pay its bills, to researchers, to erasmus students, to regions implementing employment and growth projects, etc. it is absolutely crucial to the credibility of the best and most offensive programmes in the eu. what researcher, student or project manager will seek eu funding if there is no longer any guarantee of payment? secondly: with this compromise we will avoid a budgetary crisis on top of the economic crisis we already have in europe. we must show that the union is capable of finding solutions in difficult situations and moving forward. we have a broad consensus in the european parliament on the budget and on defending key programmes such as research and lifelong learning. the employment and growth pact must not be empty promises but must be filled with substance. i am therefore concerned that some member states are still voting against this compromise. i hope that by 2013 they will take the negotiations on the long-term budget seriously and seek a constructive solution instead of threatening each other with vetoes. the eu's europe 2020 strategy is entirely dependent on adequate and credible funding if we are to tackle tasks such as the fight against youth unemployment, long-term unemployment, investments in sustainable development, etc. we now have a european patent in place. it is time to move our positions forward in areas such as innovation, industry, etc. to make a serious contribution to europe's potential. it is therefore crucial for my group that the joint declaration we have agreed on should have serious credibility. we will need resources more than ever for jobs and growth next year.
for the alde group. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: it's a good and very patient job you've done. i know that animal care, especially animal transportation, arouses very strong emotions. there are so many people who want so much. sadly, though, in our urbanized world, more and more people know less and less about nature, about life and death, about animals and plants. a democracy must always base its decisions on compromise, and a compromise must actually be based on the best available scientific knowledge and evidence, that is, long and practical experience. but -- and this is very important -- these are the facts we're basing ourselves on. but a democratic decision must be more than that. social, economic, cultural and ethical considerations must also be added to the factual basis. the alde group will support the rapporteur in all her efforts. we have only one negative on the voting list, namely paragraph 14, paragraph 5. that's where we ask for a minus. otherwise, we'll support you completely.
mr president, i would like to thank you. since sweden joined the eu in 1995, we have been waiting for shorter transport times. eight hours is the big campaign. however, this does not preclude demands for better conditions during these hours and for better implementation of the directive. this is not contradictory, but eight hours facilitates implementation. eight hours, as i said, is not a scientific limit. many animals do not feel good about being put in an unfamiliar situation, and it starts the first minute of transport. the length of time one accepts a transport is therefore at least as much a political and ethical question of how much suffering one accepts as a scientific question of hormone levels and stress hormones. therefore, it is appropriate to have a clear requirement. besides, we've waited long enough. it is important that the commission presents a proposal as soon as possible before the end of this mandate so that we can improve all the elements of the proposal and not just the transport time. the animals are also too crowded. how many of you would share your double bed with four cows?
i would like to thank the rapporteur for his report. in fact, it is not wise that the human race can be so totally shut off from feeling empathy and compassion for other creatures. i sometimes wonder how you can look through the fingers of someone who is suffering and enduring torture and cruel conditions. to allow animals to travel unreasonably long distances for hours on end in grotesquely small spaces is insane! if you do not want to introduce animal transport for a maximum of eight hours, you should do what carl schlyter said, try sleeping with four cows in a double bed. for that is the case with cows, and the same appalling conditions exist for other animals. no one can do everything, but together we can do a little. let's set a limit of eight hours max. even that is a long time. we should at least be able to agree that it should not be more than eight hours of transport. don't put money before animal welfare!
mr president, i would like to thank you. this year's report on fundamental rights has been more controversial than in previous years. given the impact of the economic crisis on europe and the violations of fundamental rights, the situation is more serious than it has been for a long time. despite the hard work of the rapporteur and the genuine desire of other political groups to produce a joint report, the epp has chosen to put forward an alternative which is a totally watered-down text, which is absolutely not in line with the objectives of the eu. it is appalling how different our views are here in the european parliament on what fundamental rights are! there are many reasons to vote for the broad joint report. the main reason is that discrimination against lgbt people, abuse of refugees and persecution of roma will not stop until we openly dare to acknowledge that these things are happening in the eu today and take political action to stop them. the european parliament has a unique opportunity to do just that in this report. another important issue that the epp report does not address is the right to sexual and reproductive health for all european women. after the shameful and tragic death of savita halappanavar in ireland, it is high time that we as members of the european parliament once again stress that women's right to their own body is a fundamental right. yesterday the eu received the nobel peace prize, but now it seems that the european parliament is unable to adopt a joint report that respects the fundamental rights of europe. it's a disgrace!
blue-card question. – madam president, i am very much in favour of sweden joining the banking union. i hope that the swedish government, the prime minister and the minister of finance will do that and will announce that. it is complicated in my country. but i would like to ask you, mr giegold: what do you think will happen if countries like sweden, denmark and poland are outside the banking union? what will the consequences for stability in europe be?
madam president, this monday the european union received the nobel prize for having united europe. i belong to those who think that this is a miraculous development that we have seen. the last 50 years, and not least the last 20 years – when we have unified europe with a european union of 27 members, soon to be 28 – have been a miracle. but i must say that we have a reason to be concerned that, in exactly the same week, we are now starting a discussion about how to develop the institutions in ways that risk dividing us. we are using the words ‘ins and outs’, ‘pluses and minuses’, ‘non-euro and euro’, and ‘north and south’. i think that, if history is to remember these days, we need to give priority to keeping the union together, for political as well as economic reasons, because the only way out of the crisis is to have a strong european union, using the opportunities of being the world’s biggest economy and the world’s biggest market, and being able to do all the things we need to do. that is a responsibility for the future, and we should underline that at the meeting this week.
madam president, i would like to thank you. perhaps the most important decision of this parliamentary term will be taken in the next few days on the establishment of a banking union. it is my hope that a solution can be found and that a compromise can be reached, involving as many countries as possible. i really hope that my own country, sweden, will choose to join, and i sincerely hope that gunnar hökmark shares this view. it is in sweden's interest to join the banking union. my appeal to prime minister reinfeldt and finance minister borg is therefore very clear: say yes to the banking union! it is good for sweden and also for europe.
mr president, for the s&d group it has been a condition for approving the package on amending budget 6 and the 2013 budget that we get this upgraded joint statement, with the signatures of the presidents of the institutions, in order to verify the need for an amending budget early in 2013 to get the necessary additional resources to pay the outstanding bills for 2012. as we now have heard this statement from president schulz and have received the necessary signatures, i hereby withdraw all our eleven budgetary amendments – that is, the amendments on figures – while we of course keep our amendment on the resolution.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. in view of the economic situation in the member states, we believe that this should be done within the framework of a budget not exceeding the current level. we believe that the eu budget must be given sufficient resources to finance commitments already made. at the same time, we would like to stress that the eu must first of all adopt a restrictive approach and provide these resources by redistributing them within the existing budget. the agricultural budget should be cut in favour of those areas which are currently facing payment problems, i.e. the social fund, research programmes and erasmus. the negotiating compromise we have reached today contains on the one hand the means to pay outstanding bills, to invest in growth, jobs and solidarity, but on the other hand it lacks sufficient ambition for savings and reform. we have therefore decided to abstain in the final vote. we would like to stress that a 'no' to the compromise would have meant that the eu would not have been able to pay its 2012 bills and that no 2013 budget would have been in place on time. we believe that in this difficult economic situation it would be too much to contribute to a budgetary crisis. finally, we believe it is important to make the eu's administrative expenditure more efficient and to reduce it, and we welcome the fact that the budgets of all the eu institutions except the eeas are kept below the rate of inflation. in this context, we also welcome the savings made in the travel allowances of members of the european parliament and the reduction in the appropriations for the 'house of european history'. however, work on further savings must continue.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the euro as a currency in the euro area. in view of the economic situation in the member states, we believe that this should be done within the framework of a budget not exceeding the current level. we believe that the eu budget must be given sufficient resources to finance commitments already made. at the same time, we would like to stress that the eu must first of all adopt a restrictive approach and provide these resources by redistributing them within the existing budget. the agricultural budget should be cut in favour of those areas which are currently facing payment problems, i.e. the social fund, research programmes and erasmus. the negotiating compromise we have reached today contains on the one hand the means to pay outstanding bills, to invest in growth, jobs and solidarity, but on the other hand it lacks sufficient ambition for savings and reform. we have therefore decided to abstain in the final vote. we would like to stress that a 'no' to the compromise would have meant that the eu would not have been able to pay its 2012 bills and that no 2013 budget would have been in place on time. we believe that in this difficult economic situation it would be too much to contribute to a budgetary crisis. finally, we believe it is important to make the eu's administrative expenditure more efficient and to reduce it, and we welcome the fact that the budgets of all the eu institutions except the eeas are kept below the rate of inflation. in this context, we also welcome the savings made in the travel allowances of members of the european parliament and the reduction in the appropriations for the 'house of european history'. however, work on further savings must continue.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of seven reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists and will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we have therefore now decided to take a case-by-case view of whether they meet the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in the above case, we considered that the applications fulfilled these requirements. we will continue to support more effective and long-term instruments in the framework of budgetary and long-term budgetary work to create more jobs, respond to structural change and increase labour market flexibility.
in writing. - we voted today in favour of seven reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since the fund was set up in 2006, we have always abstained from voting because we were against the fund from the beginning, as we do not believe that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural changes. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it exists and will not disappear for the foreseeable future. we have therefore now decided to take a case-by-case view of whether they meet the very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures imposed on applicants. in the above case, we considered that the applications fulfilled these requirements. we will continue to support more effective and long-term instruments in the framework of budgetary and long-term budgetary work to create more jobs, respond to structural change and increase labour market flexibility.
in writing. - parliament voted in december on seven reports on the use of the european globalisation adjustment fund. since 2009, i have voted against all proposals to use the fund as a rule. this is because i do not think that the fund is the right instrument to help workers affected by structural change. the fund has now grown, evolved and received its own allocation. it will therefore exist for the foreseeable future. so it is a matter of making the best of the situation. to benefit from the fund, applicants must meet very strict requirements for co-financing and long-term employment measures. in view of this, i have therefore voted in favour of all the reports in question. this does not change my view that the creation of the fund was more than questionable and that it should be wound up. europe and the eu can respond to competition and structural changes in the market in much better, more efficient and more sustainable ways in the long term. but now it's time to, as they say, make amends.
in writing. - we swedish social democrats are in favour of a global transaction tax. the under-taxation of the financial sector is a structural problem that needs to be addressed. since a global tax is unlikely to be introduced in the near future, we have been in favour of europe taking the lead in the debate over the last few years with a tax at eu level. since that option also proved politically impossible last summer, the point is that only 11 member states will now jointly establish such a taxation. we have nothing in principle against deeper cooperation. however, we have found it problematic that at the time of this decision parliament did not have a clear picture of the concrete regulatory framework that the 11 partner countries will eventually apply. for example, the commission has not yet presented an analysis of the possible negative impact of the tax on those countries - including sweden - which initially chose to opt out of the cooperation. because of these ambiguities, we have decided to abstain from this vote.
in writing. − we support the ambitious report on fundamental rights in the eu 20102011 which was voted through. however, we do disagree on a few points. the report criticises the commission for not having tabled a legislative proposal on media freedom. while we support measures to protect press freedom in the eu, we do not, however, in line with the european union of journalists, consider that a common eu law is a good way to achieve this. we also do not support the call on the council to seek a high level of harmonisation in the work on the new personal data protection regulation. this would risk overriding sector-specific national legislation and result in a lower level of privacy protection.
in writing. - we abstained in the final vote on the situation of fundamental rights in the european union (2010-2011). the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment. we voted against the one put forward by our group because it excluded taking positions on issues such as gender equality. for example, it did not clearly point to the existence of sexual discrimination which is clearly present in the union. the vote on the main resolution provided an opportunity to draw attention to problems which we believe are global and european in their individual aspects. however, in the final vote we were unable to support the resolution because, contrary to our view, it was far too broad. the concept of fundamental human rights risks losing its significance if it is accompanied by too many political positions which are simply part of national policy. however, we are particularly concerned that the resolution addresses in many points directly, but mostly indirectly, matters which clearly fall within the competence of the member states and which in some cases are contrary to the treaty of lisbon. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in writing. - it is hardly reasonable to conflate fundamental principles of human rights and freedoms with the voluntary and self-serving wishes of all to improve european society. respect for human rights and freedoms should, in my view, be synonymous with respect for the values enshrined in the charter of the united nations and the universal declaration of human rights. it should also be recalled in this context that not all legislation is to be transferred to the european parliament and the commission. the principle of subsidiarity must be respected and the responsibilities which the treaties confer on nations should not be reflected in the text of resolutions as being or becoming the tasks of the eu. that is why i abstained from voting on the report today.
the committee on development and cooperation has been asked to submit an opinion. - mr president! - what is it? the declaration of human rights is the most important international treaty we have. we know that the countries of the world community have signed and pledged to uphold these human rights and freedoms. however, we are well aware of - and have referred to it in several posts here - the trampling and neglect of respect for human rights and freedoms. syria has been mentioned, and we all know what the situation is there. eastern congo may have been a little too little or a lot too little. three hours ago we also heard about the situation in iran. let us make sure that this is not just a matter of talking about human rights and freedoms, but that we actually underline in our agreements that we demand something from those with whom we have relations or agreements in the field of human rights and freedoms. i am very pleased that we have a special representative for human rights and freedoms here in the european parliament and i am convinced that it is the best way for individual nations to have such a special representative.
mr president, i would like to thank you. the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: let me also join those who are grateful and happy that we are establishing this kind of relationship. we are, as the text says, extremely interdependent. of course, trade does matter when it comes to building prosperity and building peace. but what good is prosperity and peace if there is no freedom? under vladimir putin's leadership, russia has moved towards an authoritarian regime, as has been said by many here. somebody thought it was gonna be a record that was played over and over and over again. yes, let that record repeat the fact that russians today are in a worse position to show democratic values than they were a relatively short time ago. we have also reminded each other that russia is standing in the way at the un when the security council is trying to bring about more reasonable conditions for the people of syria, where people are being slaughtered incessantly day after day, month after month. we have spoken earlier today about iran in connection with the award of the sakharov prize. iran has russia as its major ally. if the day comes when iran can demonstrate a nuclear bomb, as many fear, it is indisputable that russia bears a large part of that responsibility. let us establish and maintain relations, since we depend on each other, but criticism must not be silenced!
mr president, i would like to thank you. we are ready to continue our engagement in ukraine, but ukraine's continued political and economic integration with the eu must be based on respect for our common values. these values have no place for politically motivated legal proceedings or obstacles to the opposition's participation in elections. there are a number of areas that ukraine needs to work on. this concerns in particular the compatibility with international standards of parliamentary elections, the implementation of reforms and selective justice. ukraine's ability to deliver in these areas will be crucial to the scope and depth of the eu's engagement with ukraine. we expect the ukrainian government to immediately engage in an inclusive dialogue with the opposition and to establish an electoral system based on reliability and clear rules. we also expect the necessary reforms to be implemented to make legal processes more numerous, transparent and independent. ukraine has many friends in the european parliament. that is why we must closely monitor what is happening and what steps ukraine is taking. i would also like to thank the commissioner for his incredibly great commitment to ukraine in particular and his almost personal commitment to the country. i would ask the commissioner to continue to keep us informed of ukraine's progress. if ukraine shows significant progress in the areas i have just mentioned, the council is ready to sign the association agreement as early as next year in vilnius. we want to cooperate with ukraine. we have chosen ukraine, but now ukraine must do its part and show that europe is ukraine's choice.
the s&d group is in favour of the proposal. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. i would like to begin by thanking the rapporteur, tatjana ždanoka, for her excellent and inclusive cooperation. the eu agency for fundamental rights is a hugely important tool for those of us who stand up for the rights of eu citizens and not just for a single internal market. through its expertise and well-founded reports and analyses of legislative proposals, the agency makes an enormous contribution to our legislative work and, by extension, to a europe where fundamental rights mean something in practice. only by gathering independent knowledge can we work against all the violations that actually occur in the eu. this report on a multiannual framework programme for the agency for fundamental rights, which will guide the work of the agency from 2013 to 2017, is therefore of paramount importance. a major problem for my political group has been that police cooperation and cooperation in criminal matters, which have become part of eu policy since the entry into force of the lisbon treaty, are not explicitly covered by the agency's mandate. this means that we cannot benefit from the agency's help in the often sensitive work in this area. the resistance of the member states is regrettable. the s&d group initially did not want to approve an agreement on a multiannual framework programme which does not include police cooperation. however, as this could mean that the agency would be without a mandate after the end of the year, we nevertheless decided to approve the report. at the same time, i cannot hide the fact that i find it extremely regrettable that the council of ministers is not able to complete its work in time. i would particularly like to call on those member states which are trying to prevent a far-reaching mandate for the agency and for fundamental rights to rethink and show more responsibility for the rights of their citizens.
mr president, i would like to thank you. we know quite well how the crisis has arisen. it started with the unregulated financial market in the united states that we imported into our country. then there was the non-functioning stability pact for the euro countries which was our self-produced crisis factor. there are, of course, ways out of this crisis. the member states must be supported by decisions taken at different levels in the eu. we have to use the fact that there are a lot of available resources in the economy. we need to use it for long-term investments, especially in those that are important for the climate and the environment. it's a factor that gives us growth. it's a factor that gives us long-term vision. it is a factor that prevents us from falling into other serious crises. however, the ultimate issue of climate is not just political goals, but also political-social goals. with the posting of workers directive we broke down the trade union rights of employees in europe. we cannot compete with china or with other parts of the world with low wages, with things that are not climate-smart production. we have to give people their dignity back. the path to growth in europe is through having a skilled workforce that is well paid for the work they do and that has strong trade union rights. it's very high on the agenda.
for the verts/ale group. mr president, i would like to thank you for your reply. the caste system is an old system of oppression that has no place in our century. the dalits and adivasis are discriminated against, and they are made both casteless and lawless, even though this kind of discrimination is prohibited, which also leads to serious violence against women. it is also time to demand that our own companies, the textile industry, do not contribute to discrimination and oppression. but just so you in the audience understand what we're talking about, i'm gonna tell you that i'm probably the only person in this room who emptied a latrine manually this summer. i did it in person only twice at my own summer home, but it was certainly not a pleasant experience. imagine spending ten hours a day emptying train latrines manually. it's a terrible work that is forbidden and should be eradicated. there are other ways to take care of our own feces.
