a sustainable transfer of european freight flows can only be achieved successfully if the rail sector is both efficient and competitive.
i expressly welcome your commitment to the establishment of common rules on nuclear safety in the chapter on energy policy.
i have tabled a number of amendments in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
i think it is great that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted this amendment.
i have to say, and this is particularly because of my predecessor, that we should not see this report as separate from other reports and initiatives, such as the lisbon strategy, which also aims at social cohesion and sustainability, the commission's report on the evaluation of national strategies for adequate and sustainable pensions, or the streamlining report on the coordination of employment policy with economic policy: all serve the purpose of maintaining the financiability of our social system, because it is necessary.
we need to strengthen resources in the personal environment and to increase the support and guidance of family members.
we have made a number of proposals to this country - and this is particularly disappointing - to encourage the peaceful use of nuclear energy, so that the few resources that this country has can really be used for the development of the country.
ladies and gentlemen, food aid in crisis areas alone is not enough for a sustainable strategy.
i would also like to stress, commissioner, that the transfer of technology and know-how in the agricultural sector is extremely important in order to achieve a sustainable agriculture that does not produce for world trade only, but first of all supplies its own population with products.
farmers and rural areas in the north and the south must not be the losers, because they are the food providers and the basis of all social needs and the guarantors of sustainable development.
they are in social responsibility and environmental sustainability.
i am thinking here of the sakharov university in minsk, whose environmental activities can be regarded as groundbreaking.
the political environment is changing with the enlargement of the european union.
we should not trade the free movement of goods against a balance in the ecosystem.
the objective of a lasting and sustainable reduction of pollutants, as set out in the transit contract, has not yet been achieved.
we too want a fair and, above all, sustainable european transport solution.
what we wanted and are still striving for is a forward-looking transport policy for the union, where, in addition to the freedoms of the internal market, due consideration is also given to the concerns of the citizens affected by transport and the environment affected by transport, especially in sensitive areas.
the people in the affected areas and the environment will thank us.
i am not disappointed as an austrian, but as someone who is particularly concerned about the environment.
it is true that transit traffic is a particular problem because it brings virtually no benefits to the country, but it creates a lot of costs and environmental damage.
i am curious about the debate and i see some in the chamber who will say that environmental costs must also be taken into account, that they are not that much, and that cross-financing must be very careful.
but the example of switzerland is rejected by the epp colleagues again, because it is too radical a consideration of the environment.
i therefore believe that we should not just be talking about sustainable development, but also create the instruments.
we know very well that an environmentally-oriented transport policy is one of the most essential instruments for creating sustainable development in europe.
protocol no 9 to the act of accession of austria to the eu provides for a 60% permanent and sustainable reduction in emissions from transit vehicles between 1 january 1992 and 31 december 2003. this is a primary right between austria and the eu.
neither the 60% reduction in pollutants nor the durability and sustainability have been achieved to date.
this is also stated by the commission and the european environment agency in their technical report no 68. instead, there was a massive increase in the number of transit journeys and a 52% increase in pollution compared with 1992. the eco-points scheme expires at the end of 2003, although its objective of achieving a sustainable reduction in emissions has not been achieved.
this agreement must ensure that there is no further increase in emissions from transit traffic compared to 2003. the adoption of this report would have the opposite effect, namely a dramatic increase in emissions from transit.
secondly, the report ignores in its entirety the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, which was adopted by a large majority.
thirdly, it is contrary to the objectives of the kyoto protocol and the alpine convention and to the environmental objectives of the european union in general.
the transit forum austria/tirol, one of the largest ngos in austria, has painstakingly put it together: in fact, between 1991 and 2001 on the combustion engine transit route, nox emissions from lorry transit increased by 18%.
i would also like to thank mr izquierdo collado, who, as a spaniard, has worked on this white paper with a thoroughness which is usually only attributed to the germans and who has invested a great deal of energy in his report.
if paragraph 9 says that there should be a certain shift towards rail, but in no way by negatively affecting the competitiveness of road transport, it is to say that we now have the situation that there is an inequality of competition which must be corrected because it is precisely in road transport that certain costs - in particular environmental costs - are not taken into account.
but the point is that, in particular, the excessive use of the road and the failure to take account of environmental costs, the unused capacity on the railway is better used.
i have already been able to point out today that even in the highly controversial area of combustion there is spare capacity which can be used and that this could contribute to improving the environment.
the lisbon strategy is our regulatory framework because it links the market with social responsibility and environmental sustainability.
i said it yesterday: austria does not want to save its eco-points system for all time, but we want a fair and sustainable european transport solution.
we have supported amendments nos 19, 20 and 21 because they call for the maintenance of the eco-point system and a quantitative limit on truck journeys until a sustainable solution for the whole alpine region is put into effect.
this road-cost directive will be a yardstick for the credibility and the much-cited sustainable european transport policy.
mr lamy, you began by making a rather atmospheric report and by advocating the european model and the interests of the developing countries.
if the result is the same as in the wto, in the trade in goods that harm the environment, and if child and slave labour is not a reason to prevent goods from entering the market, then i see major problems ahead of us.
the increased use of biomass in particular contributes to the income of farmers and the creation of new jobs in today's enlarged europe, to the multifunctional role of agriculture and also to the need for environmental protection and sustainability.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not only a matter of energy policy, but also of the energy policy of the member states.
now to the third objective, sustainable growth.
let us think of public transport, which could also do more for the environment.
we should be able to combine the objectives of sustainable growth with a policy of the social market economy.
the need for a convergence programme exists for certain types of taxation, such as vat, energy taxation, corporation taxation and taxation of pension funds.
it also means that we must finally ensure that we know the economic, employment and environmental implications of all legislation before we adopt it, and not complain about the consequences afterwards.
of course we should protect consumers from unfair business practices because we are creating a climate of trust.
this requires, first, a reorganization of the transatlantic relationship and, second, a definition of the areas of responsibility in which the european union must assume responsibility for its security policy environment.
a study which is completed after the basel committee's decision and after the adoption of the commission's draft directive is, in my view, a waste of money, is not serious and ignores the decisions of the european parliament and the council!
the lisbon council unanimously decided to make europe the most competitive, knowledge-based, socially cohesive, sustainable and job-creating continent by 2010. where's the specific timetable?
but this is not just a matter for the member states, madam commissioner, but when other environmental protection organisations are deprived of their funding status from one year to the next - more or less arbitrarily - this is also a matter of under-utilisation of the european budget.
however, i would like to stress once again that it is imperative to create as soon as possible a harmonised system of common safety standards throughout the eu for all current and future eu member states concerning the use of nuclear energy.
on monday of this week we had a very intensive debate on category 3, the internal policy section, and one area of particular concern to the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and industry is, of course, intelligent energy.
do you think that we can give special emphasis to the development of these intelligent energy technologies in this area - also in the new 10 applicant countries, which have been confirmed by the european parliament today - so that we can also take these initiatives more intensively in this area?
the present proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council concerns a multiannual action programme in the energy sector, which should cover precisely the period 2003-2006, and hence the urgency of concluding this debate.
we have four specific areas: the rational use of energy, demand management, which used to be under the umbrella of the save programme; new and renewable energy sources, formerly called altener; energy-related transport aspects: steer; and the international promotion of renewable energy sources and energy efficiency, called coopener.
before i discuss the amendments, i would like to make a brief statement on a subject which, as i have observed, has raised concerns in parliament: the coordination of the programme and its relationship with other community policies with an energy dimension, especially in the areas specific to the programme.
i am convinced that this will ensure that the energy measures are implemented in a manner consistent with the various community instruments.
i am talking mainly about the services responsible for development cooperation, agriculture, regional development, the environment and research and technological development.
we all know that there is an urgent need for action, particularly in the face of the international energy crisis.
europe is very dependent on energy imports.
at present, about 50% of europe's energy is imported and very soon we will have to expect rates of increase that are not really accountable to us.
i hope that this multiannual programme will enable us to bring about a fundamental change in europe's energy policy, and in particular the use of energy - and we have already adopted a number of framework directives in this area - must be a priority for us in the future.
i therefore believe that this programme is a major step forward in european energy policy, and i thank you in advance for the good cooperation.
she spoke of intelligent energy and, in contrast, stupid energy, and that's what you think of in these times, and stupid white men, if you follow a book title that comes from an author that many of us appreciate very much and who also won the oscar.
so you have the stupid white men, who follow a very specific principle of energy use -- old, conservative -- and you have the intelligent white woman, europe and something else.
i also think it would be wise to set up a european agency for intelligent energy.
it offers the chance to become a little bit of what the environmental protection agency in the united states in the early 1970s was to the rest of the world.
at that time, when the greens were not yet in existence and environmental awareness was underdeveloped in europe, exemplary projects were developed through access to information and through the epo's model projects.
i think smart energy also means smart transparency in the use of resources.
the aim of the directive is quite simply to put energy saving and energy efficiency at the centre of attention.
we have, of course, prepared some minor changes for this reading, but i believe that the basic principle that we have worked out together will have a very big impact on the sustainability of the energy supply.
i think that combined heat and power, in principle, especially when we see the mini-chps, can also spark a whole new debate about power supply and energy security.
we all know that renewable energy, the various combined heat and power plants that we already have in the rural structure, in the small villages, that the combination of power and heat has become very noticeable here and that in addition, of course, the market works very differently.
we are trying to put research and development at the centre of this energy country and, above all, in the field of training and further training, to make these new methods and these new funding possibilities known to the general public and, above all, to the economy.
we should of course be more concerned in future with energy and energy infrastructure, because energy security and energy efficiency are certainly among the primary objectives of the european union.
the european parliament should adopt the basis for the decision and extend the directive to nuclear environmental damage.
secondly, there is a disclaimer of liability for normal operation as authorized by the authorities and for emissions or activities which are not considered harmful according to the state of science and technology.
fourthly, the aim of the directive is to repair environmental damage and therefore the compensation for interim losses has been abolished.
originally, they were powered by two-stroke engines that really did pollute the environment and also had a very high noise level.
the ultimate aim is to minimise the emissions, to minimise the noise and to place these in the right environment.
the european union has been working on a common strategy since 1999 focusing on democracy, the rule of law, further integration into a european economic and social area and a general improvement in security and stability in europe, as well as energy sector reforms and the joint fight against organised crime.
if russia ratified the agreement with the european investment bank, which is geared to the northern dimension, then the russians would have a hundred million euros at their disposal immediately and some nuclear submarine waste could be disposed of with it.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european environment agency.
it is not to give the impression that a bad and impossible arrangement is being extended, but this arrangement with croatia is a good one for the environment, not only in austria but in europe as a whole.
these environmental effects have not only affected the alpine country of austria, but the whole of europe.
the energy supply of the european union will be a central issue for us in the years and decades to come.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection considers that the main objective of any directive relating to energy production, supply, trade or distribution is that the primary energy used should be obtained and used in the most socially acceptable way possible and that it should be environmentally friendly.
energy production is a major environmental problem in itself.
the european parliament, the commission and the council should therefore ensure that the medium- and long-term framework conditions for electricity generation are such that primary energy is derived exclusively from renewable sources (wind, water, solar, biomass).
here too we should do everything possible to ensure that domestic biogas produced from renewable raw materials replaces the old gas supply system with all its weaknesses.
this will also work if we can balance the current competitive disadvantages of renewable energy sources against the current fossil and nuclear sources and if we can bring cost-effectiveness to energy production and use.
the liberalisation of the energy market is of course primarily to the advantage of consumers, of the citizens of europe.
the energy mix must be shown on the invoice every year in future.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted.
does this not encourage distortions of competition in favour of the large states and energy suppliers in favour of the small ones?
i would, however, like to see the second pillar strengthened even more and thus contribute to sustainable rural development.
sustainable agriculture throughout the whole area is the guarantee that all regions produce.
the commission then makes these documents available to the public in accordance with eu rules on access to environmental information.
this has something to do with the whole political environment in the middle east.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
municipalities are directly democratically legitimised bodies, and if municipalities, for example, come to the conclusion that they want - even if it is a little more expensive - wooden windows from sustainable forestry, then they should be allowed to do so in the future.
the aim of this draft regulation is to ensure a high level of protection of human life and health, animal health and welfare, environmental concerns and consumer interests in relation to genetically modified food and feed.
the high level of protection of human health and the environment is regulated by a very demanding authorisation procedure.
i should like to say this at the outset, because many colleagues keep confusing health concerns with the limit value for unwanted and unavoidable pollution, which will be discussed later.
for authorisation: the placing on the market of genetically modified food and feed is authorised only after an independent and rigorous assessment of the potential risks to human and animal health and the environment.
this threshold of 0.9% does not refer to the deliberate use of genetically modified organisms, saying 'only from 0.9% onwards will be labelled', but is a necessary threshold for technically unavoidable and accidental pollution.
the strict common position and the current basis for negotiating a viable compromise on coexistence is due to the fact that we have passed and adopted the 0.5% in the committee on the environment.
due to these specific high emissions from heavy-duty vehicles, it was suspected that the increased emissions could come from this sector.
and i quote from that final report: it is noted that the emissions of heavy-duty vehicles, especially with regard to the pollutant group nox, have been significantly underestimated.
the vehicles have significantly higher emissions in real driving than the limit values suggest.
in those operating points which are not tested in the type-test cycle but are of great importance in driving practice, the vehicles have the same or even higher emissions compared to older engines.
other the regulation of eco-points is also aimed at reducing nox emissions and i have never claimed that the regulation of eco-points is the icing on the cake.
what europe needs is a sustainable transport solution.
and the objective of a lasting and sustainable reduction of emissions, as set out in the transit agreement, has not yet been achieved.
the burden of transit traffic has reached levels that are unacceptable to people and the environment in parts of my country.
europe needs a road-cost directive, european policy needs instruments for a sustainable transport policy, austria needs a transitional arrangement in the meantime.
because if you look at the facts, you too must admit - because you know what you are doing, you cannot plead ignorance - that this regulation has made a substantial contribution to improving the environmental situation throughout europe in recent years.
but this system has in the past really ensured that the environment in our sensitive regions - and this is not just tyrol, there are plenty of other sensitive regions in europe - has been improved.
it would therefore be a positive element in the decision if, despite all the other criticisms, we could also integrate euroclass 3. i would like to say again that it is clearly a question of which we give priority - the environment, health, quality of life or the unrestricted free movement of goods.
i just mean that for all our voters - and this certainly applies to those in bavaria - it must be true that health and the environment must be given priority.
i therefore hope that italy will also recognise that the environment - also the environment in italy - is such an important value that we need a sensible compromise of the transition until the road costs directive can come into force.
instead of the decisive reduction in emissions that has been promised in the past, the issue has been pushed backwards in terms of both importance and timing.
equal values are the fundamental rights of citizens, in the specific case freedom of expression and demonstration and again on an equal footing and to be read in the charter of fundamental rights, which will hopefully soon have additional weight as part ii of the european constitution the requirement of environmental protection in general and in so-called sensitive areas in particular.
unfortunately, the european parliament did not really care at first reading about the balance between the right to free movement and the rights of people and the environment on transit routes.
i am an austrian and we are very proud of what we have achieved in the field of the environment.
we are very sensitive to environmental protection, and no other country in europe - except perhaps switzerland - lives so much in the mountains, with the mountains.
fifthly, irresponsible administrative burden on banks associated with additional costs must be avoided; sixthly, transparency of the rating criteria must be ensured; the commission has also taken note of the fact that the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy of the european parliament has commissioned a study by stoa.
i would just like to quote article 3 briefly: the union shall pursue the sustainable development of europe on the basis of balanced economic growth, a highly competitive social market economy ... it combats social exclusion and discrimination and promotes social justice and social protection ... it promotes economic, social and territorial cohesion and solidarity ... two of our core values in article 2 are solidarity and non-discrimination.
when we talk about water management in developing countries, it is clear to me that the commission is that the european union should promote sustainable water management.
i think the report by paul lannoye is so good because it deals very directly and very critically with the problems and obstacles to such sustainable water management.
if we continue with our policy of uncontrolled burning of oil, this dependence will increase to 95% by 2020. the risks and dangers of this dependence, as well as the economic and environmental consequences, could be the subject of a thousand-page treatise.
the eu must develop autonomous technologies for the use of bioenergy fuels based on renewable primary energy sources.
in parallel, the 18% energy saving potential must be exploited.
the transition from oil to gas is not an energy policy solution.
the development of renewable biogas has made great strides in recent years.
biogas is a storable, renewable energy source and therefore of particular strategic use and value.
biogas can be produced locally from biogenic materials, such as grass, biological waste and wood.
we are still assuming a relatively low price for gas and oil, but i believe that with the shortages looming - and the price of oil and gas having tripled in recent years - the competitiveness of locally produced renewable energy sources will improve significantly.
here too, it is important to emphasise the need to develop scenarios that reduce overall oil and gas consumption and promote substitutes based on sustainable production.
i would like to conclude by pointing out that the price of energy may change dramatically in the next few years - i am convinced of this, and this has also been the case in recent years - due to the reduced availability and also to the increasing instability in the oil-producing countries.
it is a thought - whether right or wrong, i do not think it is so crucial - from which we must develop something, namely a long-term energy strategy for europe.
the energy with which one cannot shake the impression that there is a commission which is running out of topics and is once again doing something about it with directives; that energy should lead you to where we really need to go.
we believe that this is a prerequisite for price stability and thus for sustainable growth and the creation of new jobs.
secondly, he said: 'price stability is indeed a necessary condition for sustainable growth and the creation of lasting jobs'.
i voted for the jonckheer report because now we should be able to finally take account of renewable resources in taxation.
it is welcome that the european union has declared the increased use of renewable energy sources as one of its main objectives and that the commission has defined binding targets and timetables in its white paper on renewable energy.
mr president, if the european union is to meet its international obligations to reduce greenhouse gases, including the kyoto targets, this directive on energy taxation can only be one of many steps that will ultimately lead in the right direction.
the use of renewable energy sources is not only co2-neutral, but also adds value to the regions and creates new and modern jobs in rural areas.
it is a little strange that the european union has two important objectives, one in lisbon, which concerns the competitiveness of our continent, and the other in gothenburg, which concerns the sustainability of economic development on our continent, and that these are not sufficiently implemented, that there are many contradictions in transport policy, many very different investments and orientations, that still not - we hope that will happen soon - the road fairly covers its costs, for example in connection with the road costs directive.
we are one year after the johannesburg world summit on sustainable development.
i admit that we are not in the best position at the moment to demand that the european union continue to play a leading role in sustainable development.
but the current presidency, whose representatives in the committee on the environment gave a very sad picture a few weeks ago - also in connection with the question of sustainable development - is not the best poster child when we talk about this issue at the moment.
she informed us about the water initiative and the energy initiative.
i look forward to more detailed reports on this subject, because the participants in the parliamentary delegation of our parliament were very concerned that these were too large projects or that, for example, the energy initiative was too short on renewable energy and that traditional forms of energy were being over-supported.
one of the goals of johannesburg is to reverse the trend in hazardous chemicals by 2020. i think the problem of chemical policy also shows that having our own sustainable development committee is not going to help us out of the mess.
there are very detailed discussions and we have to go through thematically and keep in mind the need for sustainable development in every subject - including chemicals policy.
in my books and other works i didn't think much of friedrich von hayek, but what i see here all the time is such a waste of money that doesn't belong to you and doesn't belong to the house, but to the taxpayer, that i now feel it's a hypocritical farce.
i am also very sceptical about the whole story, for environmental reasons.
we must ensure that the 21st century in europe is once again a century of rail transport, otherwise we will be choked by road traffic with all its consequences for people, the environment and the economy.
the development and adoption of technical specifications must take account of economic costs and ensure that the necessary safety standards are met and that environmental and social considerations are taken into account.
the environmental costs, neither the particular burdens on the roads due to their heavy weight nor the environmental costs.
the committee on industry, trade, research and energy, for example, has no speaker on the list.
i would therefore like to know what the actual situation is with regard to the examination of the legal bases, namely the existing legal bases under the acquis and the taking into account of the planned legal bases, such as the road costs directive, such as vignette, toll, road pricing and ecological points, in order to list the whole package.
the new financial regulation will for the first time include the agency for safety and health at work, the environment agency, the translation centre, the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction and the european monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia in the discharge procedure by the european parliament.
first of all, i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr clegg, very warmly for creating a climate in the committee which makes it possible to adopt the report de facto unanimously.
we must also think about the environmental impact if we are in favour of a single market.
is not the diesel-electric car urgently needed to bring about the reduction of co2 emissions?
fair competition and environmental protection always sound good in the ears of the citizens.
the car market has been oriented precisely towards this factor because of european tax policy, and also because of environmental concerns, and eventually there has been an improvement in technology in this sector.
we have seen in the last few months that if we only liberalize, but do not at the same time create incentives for investment in the networks - for example in the energy or transport sectors - the networks can collapse temporarily or even in the long term.
the accession of ten new member states, stability and sustainable growth are certainly important, but the cultural and educational aspects should not be forgotten in this context.
the ecosocial market economy makes it clear that the liberalised market is not irresponsible, as is often assumed, but that it has social and environmental responsibilities and thus responsibility for the future.
there is therefore no doubt that a responsible european economic and environmental policy and the permitting process must ensure that serious environmental damage is prevented and that damage once caused is remedied, with the primary responsibility for the responsibility of polluters.
the decision of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market to exclude nuclear power plants from the scope of the environmental liability directive is incomprehensible in my view, since all alternative forms of energy are covered by this directive.
the environmental damage caused by wind, biomass, biogas and solar power plants is the responsibility of the respective polluter.
it is a legal directive and not an environmental directive.
this is not possible unless a minimum of social rights, human rights and environmental protection are enforced, unless there is this common constitutional europe.
the danger is that the right to free movement of goods, which we all agree on, becomes a religious right that violates the human right to health and the right to protect the environment, and that we take only accompanying measures, but do not guarantee people their fundamental right to health and the environment.
they are turning an environmental conflict, an ecological disaster, into a legal conflict unprecedented in history.
in addition, austria is to introduce an expensive counting system which is technically difficult to implement and is only an expense, but does not bring any ecological benefits.
the european parliament is also playing with its reputation on this issue, and is playing it as the representative of citizens and environmental interests, in favour of the noise and emissions lobby.
it no longer limits environmental damage and protects the local people.
we shall then see how this parliament and its members vote: whether they are in favour of the people and the environment or in favour of the noise and emissions lobby.
i am here as an austrian member of parliament, but above all as someone who has always been an advocate for the environment and who, as a member of the vienna transport council, believed that economic and transport development should not be at the expense of the environment and health.
it has been modernized, it has been made, if you will, more ecological, that is, more environmentally friendly.
we see from the vote in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy that we will be adopting this directive tomorrow.
we are here to strengthen the security of energy supply.
we want to have a lot of market players that are improving the security of energy supply, but also improving energy efficiency, and above all -- i think that was one of the really compelling reasons -- to improve grid security.
in this case, households will also have the opportunity to recover part of their energy costs through electricity supplies.
micro-chp is an opportunity for households in the energy sector, including the private market, to obtain energy efficiently and cheaply while increasing energy security.
i believe that a reduced energy bill will eventually be felt in the pockets of every citizen.
the balance between the self-sufficiency of the industry from cogeneration plants and the supply of energy to the grid is also an essential basis for us, and the balance between mechanical plants and those which do not supply the grid is very important.
draft opinion of the consultative committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not affected by the pollution of the environment.
we all know that in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy we have been very active in promoting the internet and the liberalization of telecommunications in europe.