ten years ago, when the maastricht treaty was being negotiated, the climate seemed to me more favourable to the regional package than it is today.
the railway is a sustainable means of transport, so let's take care of it.
the aim of all reforms must be to achieve a sustainable transport policy in europe.
until we have a clear picture of the consequences of this liberalization in terms of working conditions, safety, the environment, the effective improvement of the supply to consumers and the growth of the sector, we cannot take a decision on accelerating the liberalization of rail transport.
the free movement of goods was not organized in a sustainable way in the 20th century.
north korea withdraws from the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, refuses inspections by international atomic energy agency inspectors and resumes its nuclear program.
from a humanitarian point of view, not by cutting off humanitarian aid, but also by trying to find other solutions to the energy problem, which in north korea is a serious problem.
the question is more fundamental, however, how to prevent and combat illegal exploitation in the future, in other words how to establish a new stable and democratic order in the congo, capable of a controlled and sustainable exploitation of the country's resources for the benefit of the entire congolese population.
in africa, the uncontrolled dumping of gmos can have far-reaching consequences, especially for the environment, agriculture and food safety.
in the face of environmental degradation, the ngos participating in the forum propose the internationalisation of environmental protection and universal sustainable development.
in the context of the trade negotiations taking place within the wto and the gats, the social forum defines the territory of public, universal goods and declares them to be the world's common heritage: water, health, energy and culture are thus included among the inalienable rights.
it is a lever of sustainable development in european transport policy.
the greens/efa group therefore calls, in amendments nos 19, 20 and 21, for a rapid, lasting and comprehensive solution to the ecological, economic, social and safety problems caused by traffic through the alps for decades and known throughout the european union.
mr president, commissioner, the white paper has opened up a stimulating debate, capable of a strategic vision, which allows us to look at the objective of creating those conditions for mobility, of things and of people, which are essential to truly integrate the enlarged europe, to pursue its territorial cohesion, all while avoiding any waste of land and reducing any undesirable effects on the environment, on the safety and health of citizens.
the commission has been talking about it for a long time and the demand for this document is louder, not only in this hemisphere from people concerned with the environment and road safety but also in the member states who want to make the real polluter pay.
i think that it is precisely at this time that we must bear very strong witness to the value of the european model, which is not only the value of a market but which above all wants to be a model of well-being, of sustainability, of development, of prosperity linked to well-being.
for sustainable development to be possible, each country must do more than it does today, and we must do more together than we do today.
united nations statistics published in the prestigious medical journal "the british medical journal" show that the number of cancer cases in southern iraq increased sevenfold between 1989 and 1994. even the u.s. army environmental policy institute has acknowledged the potentially serious medical consequences of using depleted uranium.
there is an urgent need for independent scientific research into the consequences of their use, not only for health but also for the environment.
on impact, the uranium is volatilized into fine particles which are liable to be inhaled by humans or dispersed into the environment, where they may, by the action of wind, be suspended and eventually inhaled as well.
the streets, the prison environment, nightclubs, rave parties are all places where hard drugs circulate freely and outside the minimum health safety criteria.
of course, action in the streets, in prisons, but also in nightclubs, which are a favourable environment for polytoxic addiction, should be given priority.
the consultation process encompasses: the economic reasoning behind the projected closures; taking independent expert advice on the whole affair; taking all possible measures to avoid the closures or limit their social impact; and seeking to clean the local environment and re-industrialise the closed plants.
they cover actions with a view to anticipating the market and technological developments, investing in people on a permanent basis, developing employability, seeking alternatives to closures and redundancies, redeploying, whenever possible, workers affected by restructuring operations and so on - precisely those good practices which i hope will help arcelor's workers overcome the present difficulties, and which are dramatically absent in the metaleurop environment.
it was a spirit of enterprise in which financial profitability was given priority over real qualifications, proximity and, above all, respect for the commitments made in favour of the sustainable development of europe's regions.
you do not rule out the liberalisation of energy and water and the postal, port and pilot services sectors are already ready for liberalisation.
this means taking into account safety and the environment, but also social rules or employment.
a proper licensing policy should enable the competent authorities to ensure that a port is not a place where you take risks with safety or with the environment, that a port is certainly not a place where you allow social dumping, but that a port does become a vital link in an efficient and sustainable european transport policy.
the authorization of self-treatment without a mandatory prior authorization has other negative consequences, as already mentioned: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat the risks of pollution.
the recognition of crude vegetable oil as a biofuel is appropriate in view of the many environmental benefits it provides, but also because decentralised production of oil on agricultural holdings would allow the farmers concerned to derive added value from their production.
we recognize the usefulness of the instrument of maximum harmonization, but, like mr whitehead in his report to the committee on the environment, we ask for caution and to work on a case-by-case basis, otherwise we risk going too far.
ladies and gentlemen, you will find that the patrie report of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection differs on many of these points from what we have said in the legal affairs committee.
i would therefore ask the environment committee and the other members of this house to look at this again before voting and to ask for support for these points from the legal affairs committee.
in the legal affairs committee we have done our best to concentrate on the legal aspects of the strategic document on consumer policy and apparently mr whitehead and his colleagues in the environment committee have respected or appreciated that, because i have found that virtually all the points of our opinion have been taken up in the whitehead report.
in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, article 153 has been added to that and i think that it can be retained.
there is also a broad consensus that the current legislative framework is inadequate and needs to be complemented by a community strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides.
pesticides are a growing environmental and health problem.
drinking water companies have to invest capital to get that waste out again.
do we want to go from bad to worse, or do we want to go in a sustainable direction?
in our report we ask that the precautionary principle be applied and that gmos not be tout courted as a safe and sustainable alternative.
it is an excellent proposal and the work of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has been facilitated by the fact that the basis for discussion was initially very good.
the commission proposal proposes to end the use of these substances in eight specific areas and the committee on the environment, on this basis, proposes to extend the scope to co-formulants in pesticides and to active substances and co-formulants in biocides.
the committee on the environment proposes to extend the addition of a reducing agent to all cement containing more than two parts per million (ppm) of chromium vi, with a derogation limited to fully automated closed-loop use.
the committee on the environment therefore asks for two things.
the vote in the committee on the environment has enabled us to take this step, which has been accepted by the leaders of the various political groups in the committee on the environment, and i thank them for this.
secondly, the training will also include attention to rational energy consumption.
this creates not only an image problem but also a waste of time and money.
finally, mr president, i should like to say a word about environmental policy.
there's been a lot of effort to go to renewable energy, to take care of solar panels and things like that.
i think that we as an institution need to have a real climate plan so that we as the european parliament can also contribute to compliance with the kyoto standards.
on friday last week the commission presented a study which shows that if all public buildings in the european union were to use renewable energy, 18 per cent of the kyoto standards that europe must meet would already be met.
let us set an example, let our parliament take this step too and ensure that the european parliament has a real climate plan.
the challenge is significant: it is clear that the ability of individuals to access and process information is decisive not only for their integration into the labour market but also in their social and cultural environment.
we can't let that score go to waste today.
i would point out that organochlorines are substances which generally pose problems for the environment and even for health.
the environmental disaster with the prestige is apparently not a convincing argument for the aznar government.
the commission itself, in its communication, speaks of the consequences of the war in iraq for the energy and transport sectors.
mr president, this proposal from the european commission is the first attempt to introduce a comprehensive system in the european union for the prevention and repair of environmental damage.
how far should we go in protecting the environment and the obligation to repair damage?
there are many concrete points of disagreement: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from pollution, which would be compatible with the common market.
this is what we all want in the end: a good, well-defined and uniform european framework providing for a comprehensive approach to environmental damage, with clear european standards, the same rules for the whole of the european union and where everyone knows what to adhere to.
- mr president, with this proposal for a directive, the european commission finally came to the end of a process that had lasted for ten years in january 2002. it must be admitted that in 1993 there was already a green paper on environmental responsibility.
the european parliament, through its committee on the environment, has then repeatedly insisted that the commission should take a rapid initiative in this area.
first, there is a narrow definition of the environment.
in the case of biodiversity, only an estimated 20% of biodiversity would be protected and 13% of the european territory would be affected.
in particular, everything related to nuclear energy and everything related to the transport of hydrocarbons is excluded, without any real justification.
we refer to international conventions which do exist but which are not aimed at repairing environmental damage.
i would like to conclude, mr president, by saying that our group supports a number of amendments which are in line with the proposals made by mr papayannakis to the committee on the environment, which were taken up by mrs gebhardt.
- ladies and gentlemen, restoring the richness of the environment is important, more than important, and preventing damage is even more important.
first, the impact on the environment.
many of my colleagues come from regions where tourism is an important economic sector and where tourism has a major impact on people and the environment.
i would therefore like to ask the commission how it intends to control the impact of tourism on people and the environment.
what is the commission doing to make tourism more sustainable under agenda 21?
i also think of the importance of article 6 of the treaty, which obliges the commission to integrate environmental protection into its policy areas, including the tourism sector, with a view to promoting sustainable development.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, thanks to the good cooperation of the european parliament and the other european institutions, we are now on the eve of the liberalisation of the energy markets in europe.
the conclusion is that this is an important step in the liberalisation of the energy markets in the european union, but that the way in which this liberalisation is put into practice will have to be monitored closely at all times.
energy is not a market like any other.
finally, access to energy for all citizens must be considered a genuine right, which again raises the question of public service.
the european citizens, the environment and the maritime sector expect a europe that is decisive on the issue of oil pollution at sea.
these are: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution, such as the introduction of a european coastguard, the introduction of a mandatory percentage of inspections per port and not per member state, or we will have the same problems with double-hulled tankers in 15 years' time.
finally, it is in our interest that the distribution of these funds should be directed mainly to priority areas such as social cohesion, the development of democracy, human rights, support for civil society, the special situation of women, culture, youth and sustainable development.
mr president, the prestige disaster has thrown a harsh light on marine pollution.
marine ecosystems are threatened by many other pollutants than single-hull ships, and their biodiversity, both marine flora and fauna, is at risk.
first, overfishing and illegal fishing, which deplete fish stocks, but also landfills, agricultural fertiliser and pesticide residues, clandestine ship discharges, products from oil platforms - all human activities that have taken no account of anything other than immediate profit and that have no prospects for sustainable development and no concern for the environment.
in particular, where knowledge is still lacking in a specific area, the precautionary principle must be applied for rapid intervention and must be supplemented by those of polluter pays and sustainable development.
the committee on the environment has welcomed both the commission's communication and mrs álvarez's report with a very, very positive feeling.
my colleagues in the environmental field have reminded you of these: these are the sustainable development goals.
why do you, as you have said, reject our amendment to article 53 (1) of the classic directive, where we refer to environmental characteristics but also to production methods?
why should we refuse to allow contracting authorities to give preference, for example, to production methods based on the rational use of energy?
making this scheme a criterion for awarding public contracts and encouraging companies to respect this type of ecolabel would be in line with the objectives of integrated sustainable development advocated by the european parliament and the european council.
the greek presidency has done a good job, mr president, in dramatic international circumstances and in an economic and political climate of little optimism, and i commend the greek presidency for this.
you spoke mainly of control and return, but sustainable development and peace in the countries of origin must be a priority in the immediate future.
this development requires not only trade measures but also respect for the environment and the development opportunities of these countries.
in all the acceding countries there are regions waiting for opportunities and for sustainable development because they are impoverished and depopulated.
social and environmental considerations must be allowed to be decisive in a public procurement procedure, provided that they are decisive at the level of the compliance requirements defining the product or service concerned and at the level of the selection criteria defining the suppliers who may participate.
that is why i did not approve many of the social and environmental amendments concerning the award criteria.
this is what the european parliament asked the commission to do during the first reading of the environmental liability directive.
- (nl) for the last 15 years, belgian meat inspectors, who are not technicians but qualified veterinarians, have used all their energy, strength and creativity to combat the illegal use of hormones in livestock farming.
- the european union must take concrete action to reduce its emissions of the most polluting gases.
it must do so to protect the health of its citizens, to meet the kyoto targets, to set an example for the world and to avoid the catastrophic scenario that is looming: the latest report by the international energy agency's climate scientists calls for a doubling of energy consumption and greenhouse gas emissions by 2030!
companies that exceed their quotas will be fined €40 per tonne of excess, then €100 per tonne after 2008. this system of trading allowances therefore appears to be a real breath of fresh air which will reduce these emissions by more than 20% from 2010 onwards, not to mention saving €2 billion in energy.
years of attacks and repression followed, in a climate of violence by both the hardline separatists and russian forces.
i also welcome the efforts of the administration to make life more tolerable, to gradually reopen schools, to install at least part of the energy supply, public transport and medical services in grozny, but these are far from sufficient.
finally, parliament did not support the principle of the hierarchy of standards between wto law and international social and environmental law, nor the primacy of the united nations.
it comes in a climate of continuous human rights violations and the scandalous verdict that sentenced them to 15 years in prison on 1 july raises at least two questions.
in the face of such ecological disasters, not all of which are natural, as we know, in the face of their human consequences - in portugal eighteen people lost their lives in these fires - in the face of their economic consequences - hundreds of thousands of hectares destroyed and, therefore, thousands of farmers without work in portugal, in the centre of portugal, the poorest region - in the face of these thousands of people who have no reason to work if they are not offered a new job immediately, and who will be tempted to migrate to the towns or to the coast, we must act on all fronts and at all levels.
many of you know that i have long been interested in the environment and ecology and in october 1999, when i had just been appointed commissioner, i had to go to greece to assess the damage caused by an earthquake.
portugal's request reached the commission on 14 august and last week, a fortnight later, we proposed emergency aid of €31.6 million for relief, temporary accommodation, energy supply, repairs to basic infrastructure and animal feed, because everything is devastated.
i also hope that we can find ways together to increase the budgetary effort for renewable energy or clean transport in regional or national programmes.
i would like to conclude, ladies and gentlemen, by referring to the most important, most difficult and most necessary global prevention: the action of our member states and our union on climate change.
if, as all climate scientists predict with increasing probability, the ongoing global warming is leading to major changes in the distribution of rainfall and drought conditions, then it is essential for the community and each of its members to stay ahead and lead by example in the fight against climate change.
it has also integrated environmental principles into its strategy and decision-making process.
the most recent emissions data show that 10 of the current 15 member states are still far from meeting their share of the greenhouse gas emission reduction target.
we have also, as you know, adopted a proposal for a regulation to reduce the emission of fluorinated greenhouse gases.
finally - and franz fischler would say this better than i - the new environmental and ecological requirements are now being taken into account in the guidelines of the common agricultural policy.
the human, economic and ecological toll could have been even heavier without the courage and efficiency of the firefighters, who are often volunteers, the red cross' assistance to the affected populations, the solidarity between european states, and not to mention the material cooperation of third countries.
finally, and i could have started with that, how can we not make a link between these recurring natural disasters and global warming?
the liberal group supports the commission in all its efforts to reduce greenhouse gases.
this summer, ozone pollution records were broken in all member states.
the best way to achieve this is through a general free trade system which offers the best guarantees for sustainable economic growth in all parts of the world.
today we are talking about a socially corrected market, with attention to social standards, the environment, consumer protection, respect for intellectual property rights and so on.
it is a disgrace, it is bad for the environment and for the image of parliament.
the pain points are mentioned, for example port state control, and a good analysis of the necessary environmental measures is given.
secondly, we can only now begin to assess and calculate the total economic and ecological damage.
i was in galicia this summer and i noticed that there were fewer foreign tourists on the coast, that there were daily lumps of oil washing up on the beach, that there were still rocks under the oil and that there was no warning of pollution by the omnipresent people of the ministry of the environment.
firstly, the increase in the security stocks from 90 days to 120. why should the european union increase its stocks when the international energy agency has a global emergency response mechanism?
of course, this is also a heavy burden on the environment and the costs will undoubtedly be passed on to the consumer.
so that once and for all, as is the case in the united states, with the oil pollution act, the polluter really is the payer.
firstly, the minimum rates indicated by the council and to be applied from 1 january 2004 are, almost without exception, lower than those proposed by the commission in 1997 and by the european parliament in 1999. such a backsliding is in flagrant contradiction to the council's stated commitment, and in particular the european council's, to present instruments aimed at decoupling economic growth from energy consumption.
referring to the position adopted by parliament in 1999 and taking into account new political elements such as the declaration of the gothenburg european council on a sustainable development strategy, i therefore, as rapporteur, proposed to the committee on economic and monetary affairs that the council's position be strengthened on certain points, while remaining moderate in view of the different political sensitivities.
finally, i proposed mandatory support for renewable energy.
in principle, all forms of renewable energy should be fully exempted.
if it were to be confirmed in plenary, it would mean that parliament rejects the very advisability of this proposal for a directive on the grounds that we have just voted a directive on emissions trading.
on the contrary, we should use our collective goodwill and energy to help achieve reconciliation and lasting peace.
we need to implement trade rules that are truly fair, where trade is put at the service of human rights, social rights and environmental protection, and not the other way around.
the rules of global trade must not hinder the action of states towards sustainable development, which the johannesburg summit last year considered to be the top priority, but on the contrary the action of the wto must support states in this direction.
shouldn't the atomic energy agency be doing its job here?
the people who took part in the referendum were promised that their energy bills would be paid by the government; mayors are being offered trips to china if they support the referendum.
however, i fear that the departure of the two vessels to the uk is part of a wider strategy to set up a larger waste carousel to countries such as india and bangladesh.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is not sent to countries which have no strong social or environmental policies.
in recent years, various efforts have been made to prevent the export of waste and to achieve a system where waste is dealt with as close to the source as possible.
that is a very bad signal from the united states, which has already suspended several environmental conventions.
europe too exports old ships to the south for scrapping, without the hazardous waste being processed first.
on 27 october there will be a meeting of the council of ministers for the environment, so it is a good time to take a step forward and take a legislative initiative!
the iron rhine exists and has proved its usefulness in the past, but has been out of service for several decades because the cost of environmental adaptations, such as tunnelling in certain places, is far too high to make the line profitable quickly.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the lack of a single market.
i think the last part of your answer is absolutely correct: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment.
article 5 of this directive requires that the content of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide yields should be printed on the cigarette packet and each unit packet of cigarettes must carry general and additional health warnings covering at least 30% of the front and 40% of the back surface, aimed at informing the consumer about the risks of tobacco use.
the negotiations are well advanced, although there are still problems to be solved: i am referring in particular to the prices of energy products and access to the services market.
this is a formality, and one on which we want to tie up loose ends by 1 may 2004. if we cannot achieve this, we will need to agree to apply the partnership and cooperation agreement on a provisional basis, as in 1997. thirdly, we will take note of reports on the common european economic area and the energy dialogue, to both of which the presidency referred in some detail.
this means tackling problems primarily in the fields of justice and home affairs, and the environment.
a few years ago, in lisbon, the european union set itself the clear objective of becoming the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth, coupled with a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion.
the balanced approach of three pillars - economic, environmental and social - must be our guiding principle in our analysis of competitiveness.
the european competitiveness must be based on research, skills, training of the workforce, productivity, respect for the environment and, last but not least, the quality of social relations.
on the other hand, any attempt to achieve competitiveness by continuously reducing costs, particularly wage costs, and/or by lax environmental policies would be completely illusory.
the role of major european industrial projects, involving private operators and public efforts, such as galileo, is also worth highlighting in key sectors such as alternative or renewable energy, nanotechnologies, space and steel.
in addition, we are all aware of the need for a good transport, energy and communication network to take full advantage of the potential of the great european single market.
- mr president, as regards paragraph 11, i propose an oral amendment to replace the words 'alternative energy' by the words 'renewable energy'.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire is a good example of the need to ensure that the environment is protected.
angles of incidence are: first, further development of a concept for a sustainable car.
if china and india switch to general car traffic, the environmental burden will become unbearable.
businesses demand a stable business environment from the government.
i would also like to say that, in terms of sustainable development, the commission paper points out that, according to the european environment agency, the external costs of transport represent 8% of gdp.
i therefore think that the commission is right to stress that if the council is to meet the objectives, particularly in terms of reducing emissions of pollutants from passenger cars, it must follow your proposals.
- (el) for several years now, the eu has been systematically promoting the entry of large companies into a series of publicly owned and controlled sectors (energy, telecommunications, railways, postal services, etc.).
the report by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy regrets the delays and threatens the countries concerned with proceedings if they do not comply.
the liberalization of energy and rail transport in particular has shown, in flanders and elsewhere, but also in great britain, that it can also have adverse effects on competition, quality of work and the provision of services.
i think that everyone should be able to offer their services there, but then that free provision of services must be compensated by a licensing system, which should be regulated in such a way that we can also make our demands in the field of the environment, public services and last but not least social regulations.
the fight must not lead to insecurity, social dumping and environmental pollution in ports.
i'd like to remind you what sustainability means.
gothenburg has defined sustainability as an equilateral triangle of economics, ecology and social.
i simply ask you: how have you promoted sustainability when you are putting port safety at risk by this directive?
this can lead to greater environmental damage and does not lead to an improvement in environmental protection.
i think, commissioner, that if port services are to be opened up to the functioning of the internal market, social and ecological standards must be put in place, which apply to all countries without exception.
the correct approach, commissioner, would have been to make european port activities subject to a licensing obligation, which would regulate the most important elements in the fields of social protection, safety, training, work organization and the environment.
- the transfer of waste is fundamental in the struggle we developed countries are waging to maintain economic development and protect the environment.
i am, however, opposed to the obstacles to the recovery of waste.
36% of the alternative energy used for cement production comes from waste, mainly from neighbouring countries.
if this transfer is jeopardized, there will be a double emission of pollutants in belgian cement works, namely those from waste and those from fuel used in cement works.
this double emission is costly and harmful to the environment.
this is the case for intermediate waste sorting centres, which are prohibited because they cannot monitor the exact destination and traceability of the waste in question.
if the aid we are going to receive for 2004 would allow us time to devise ways of working together to ensure the sustainability of the system, i think we would be more efficient.
the sri lankan people are suffering and have suffered immensely from the terrorist acts perpetrated on their territory and the resulting climate of insecurity.
the situation is very worrying and the climate of violence in the province is likely to cause another hellish confusion.
in aceh, where the security forces have a strong presence and have been killing with impunity for many years, the climate is deteriorating every day and further weakening the confidence of the people of the province.
- (da) mr president, it is unacceptable that a directive on environmental liability does not include pollution from the use of genetically modified plants (gmos).
parliament's review of the directives on seed wheat, traceability and labelling of gmos clearly shows that there is a risk of unintended pollution, even when gmos are used correctly.
the problem is pollen pollution and the lost seeds accumulated in the seed bank.
however, pollution by gmos is not included in the proposed environmental liability directive.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the report on environmental responsibility has led to extremely complex and even emotionally charged debates in the committees responsible.
waste collection and the environmental impact of medicines; the braille inscription - it has not yet been said - on the packaging for the visually impaired.
the same applies to tolls on passenger transport, where so many different factors such as tourism, traffic density, air pollution, economic structures, etc.
it can regulate for the environment, it can advocate for safety, it can also generate revenue, and what is done with that revenue is, of course, an interesting debate.
but it is clear that there must be a balance between general environmental problems and the geographical situation in austria on the one hand and the free movement of goods on the other.
firstly, the noise pollution situation is not the same in all european airports.
it is rightly said that discrimination against women is an obstacle to sustainable and effective development.