the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the following areas: in its white paper on governance, the commission advocated systematic dialogue with the associations representing these communities and we are currently working out the modalities of this dialogue which, after a very broad consultation, will be operational by the end of the first half of 2003. the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the commission has already submitted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
vehicles transporting animal carcases and slaughterhouse waste are not exempted.
we must respond with concrete steps to these uncertainties, strike at the sources of individual and collective insecurity and thus create a more rational, fairer, freer environment for life, one that will open up more possibilities for all.
i am referring to the full and effective liberalisation of energy and transport markets, the extension of the transeuropean energy and transport networks, the promotion of a single market in services, and the integration of financial markets.
sixth, safeguarding future prosperity through sustainability.
in this context, the review of the union's sustainable development strategy based on the outcome of the johannesburg world conference is central.
we want to highlight the union's leading role in environmental protection.
i am very pleased to see that the commission has taken the initiative in this area and that it has been able to make a substantial contribution to the development of the community's energy policy.
the whole of his speech bears witness to this, and i need hardly summarize the fundamental pillars, which we fully share: the european parliament has been very attentive to the problems of immigration, patents, energy and the great problems of lasting peace in europe, namely the problems of the balkans and the mediterranean.
it is the best strategy to give our citizens what really matters, namely greater prosperity, quality jobs, greater social cohesion and a healthy and sustainable natural environment.
it is also the only strategy to ensure that these achievements are sustainable for future generations.
these countries, which the whole world can look to as models, show that the right balance of policies can generate development in all fields: economic, social and environmental.
ladies and gentlemen, in lisbon we have put together an integrated strategy which, on the one hand, stimulates the european union's economy in a sustainable way and, on the other, responds to our major medium- and long-term challenges.
so here is knowledge and innovation as the heartbeat of sustainable development: without investment and innovation, we cannot grow, we cannot maintain our levels of prosperity.
the enterprises must have a dynamic and favourable environment for this economic activity.
in europe today, i do not find this environment to be widespread.
it is significant, i give you just one figure because we are not in an academic environment here but we have to make decisions, and it seems that the group of the largest european companies is currently carrying out 40 per cent of its research outside the union.
we have set ourselves the goal of creating a competitive society, based on knowledge and sustainable development.
i have no idea how we colleagues and i in the environment committee are to work without them.
it is our immediate environment and it is obvious that there is a special interest.
the commission has actively contributed to launching the northern dimension environmental partnership, with its support fund for environmental and nuclear projects in northwest russia.
the northern dimension environmental partnership is a clear example of how cooperation in the northern dimension region can achieve tangible results in very sensitive areas, calling for urgent action.
in this context much attention is also being devoted to resolving the remaining details of the multilateral nuclear environmental programme for the russian federation, the so-called mnepr.
much attention has also been devoted to the northern dimension, energy issues, transport, infrastructure, business and trade cooperation and to cooperation in the fight against organised crime.
but you also included health, research, infrastructure, energy and the entire information sector.
this applies, for example, to the various areas of cooperation, ranging from environmental problems to research and technological development to telecommunications.
the benefits for russia are very clear, for example, in terms of the potential for expanding export capacity or in terms of our willingness to commit considerable resources in the environmental field - including, of course, in our own interests - to improvements in russia.
the first is energy.
the energy sector would be dependent on the completion of the baltic ring, the electricity interconnector around the baltic sea.
now, back to energy, i want to point out a paradox.
i ask that this be discussed here, that is, whether our policy is correct, and that it also be a topic in the energy dialogue with the russians.
it is not the task of members of parliament to praise the investment success of banks, but to check whether this bank, which is financed with public funds, complies with the political rules applicable in the european union, namely the rules of transparency, the rules of sustainable development and the rules of environmental compatibility.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
i think it's particularly important that you can take risks that others can't and that there's no contradiction between a willingness to take risks and a sustainable, reliable business.
this should also apply to the neglect of the objective of environmentally conscious and sustainable and social development.
that is why sustainable fish farming is the only sensible prospect i see for the future at the moment.
waste, parasites, chemicals, food, these are just a few of the key words.
and just to give you an example, the total annual waste from scottish salmon farms is equivalent to that of a large city.
but i am in favour of a sensible, high-quality and sustainable fish farming.
the focus on quantity at the lowest price will only lead to ecological and economic misdevelopments.
i would like to mention just a few, such as the use of medicines, minimising environmental impact, product safety as food, improved production facilities which also meet higher animal welfare requirements, and last but not least the protection of wild species from genetically modified fish.
i am calling for a sustainable approach to fisheries agreements and a balanced distribution of the benefits, and at the same time, of course, an economically profitable approach, because i do not want to be unrealistic, but permanent public support is contrary to this objective.
besides unmovic, there is also the international atomic energy agency (iaea) team under dr el baradei.
it is necessary to ensure that the right to produce basic foodstuffs, the right to satisfy the hunger of one's own population, the right to cultivate the land and to manage the environment properly, and the right to hand over the farms to the next generation and thus preserve agricultural agriculture, are brought to the fore, and that the mechanisms of destructive trade, of so-called world trade, which was nothing more than export dumping, are stopped so that we can achieve a development in solidarity with the people of the third world, but also with agricultural agriculture in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's agricultural policy is not undermined by the fact that the community is not able to take action to combat the problem of food waste.
on the other hand, rural development, the environment and animal welfare are not among the core categories of the wto.
we have a contract, but we can't let that contract go to waste.
what you are doing here, setting up a pop-up shop, the rest of the union is against you and hostile to the environment, only you are environmentally friendly, that is unbearable, ladies and gentlemen!
the analysis is hard and cruel and, mrs peijs, it must be noted: every day there are 7 500 km of congestion on europe's roads, co2 emissions have increased by 15% between 1990 and 1998, rail freight transport has fallen from 21% to 8.5% in recent years, and every day between 1990 and 1996 there were new motorways the size of ten football fields.
i therefore say that the analysis in the white paper has nothing to do with the real mobility we want and with a transport policy which is not harmful to the environment.
the state alone cannot create the jobs europe needs to develop its productivity and become the most sustainable region in the world.
i also feel that in the run-up to this year's spring summit, sustainability is seen as an appendage to the general political development.
this is regrettable indeed, because the future development of our society - i believe - depends very much on how we manage to design our ecological basis of life in such a way that future generations can also live sensibly with it.
we need to make greater efforts in the field of sustainable development, and i am addressing this to the council in particular, because we have made clear here in parliament, but also in the commission, what sustainable development should look like.
president prodi, in preparation for the gothenburg summit, has laid out very clear indicators and targets for sustainable development here in parliament, which i can wholeheartedly endorse.
the council has not adopted these objectives, and i think that is what is wrong with the whole debate: we are setting objectives for many policy areas, but not for sustainable development.
i do not want to make a long christmas wish list, but we must concentrate on one or two key points, and climate protection is certainly an important area, as is transport.
i would just like to remind you of wind energy, which has created tens of thousands of jobs in the european union by promoting these forms of energy.
what is the answer between the need to strengthen the market system without limits or to strengthen at the same time issues relating to employment, the social model or the concept of growth and the concept of sustainable development?
no country has both high growth rates and social protection and sustainable development and environmental protection issues.
but we also know what the consequences can be if we proceed on the basis of the criterion of competitiveness alone or on the basis of other criteria such as employment, social protection or environmental protection.
there has been a point of criticism, if you will, that there is not much emphasis on sustainable development and the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
we, as the presidency, want to focus the next few months on helping to remove barriers to environmental technologies, on strengthening the procedures for promoting renewable energy sources, on promoting approaches leading to a proper costing of transport infrastructure, on taxing energy that creates pollution, on examining the environmental report to be presented to the spring council.
they put forward a number of issues which the spring council must examine, and i agree with what was said that we must show in march that the european union - the presidency of course does not have magical powers and cannot make decisions for the fifteen, but the fifteen must show that in the climate in which we operate, we are able to take decisions which open up prospects, create confidence and work positively for the future of the european union.
i would like to make a statement on behalf of our group on the caveri report: the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and european democrats deplores the fact that eight years after austria's accession to the european union, no solution has yet been found for the crossing of the alps by goods through austria that is satisfactory to all parties concerned, both from an economic and an ecological point of view.
as regards time, the council intends to respect the deadlines as far as possible, given the complexity of the matter and the events which have undoubtedly altered the general perception of the political and legislative environment.
i think it is very welcome that we finally have a commitment to forests at european level, but i think, like my predecessor, that we must try to focus more on biodiversity, climate change and the monitoring database, and that perhaps the approach to forest fires should not be as much of a priority.
for the first time, i do not need to use all my speaking time today, because i think we all agree that the point is to give a greater importance to the forest in europe, to see it as a very important habitat for us and to make it clear that we also need to monitor climate change and that the commission's approach to biodiversity needs to be extended much more.
in principle, i welcome the fact that this new forest focus proposal combines two old regulations on the protection of forests against pollution and fires.
forest focus, if we say yes, must cover the social, economic and ecological fields in europe.
biodiversity and monitoring are good words.
– mr president, i would like to start by congratulating mrs stihler and the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for their excellent work.
we must therefore also find a way of ensuring that cultural diversity in europe and the world is safeguarded and supported - also in the long term and in a sustainable way - in the fourth paragraph of article 151 of our european treaties.
we are contractually obliged to make sustainable development the guiding principle of all our policies, and that means that you cannot liberalise without at the same time negotiating social standards and environmental standards.
in particular, when you demand that 72 countries in the world liberalize their water supply, you are negating the social and ecological conditions on the ground.
the principle of sustainable development must clearly prevail here, not the economic interest in being able to provide water supplies in the best interests of shareholders.
i think that on the question of biofuels, which is the subject here, the european parliament is continuing its intergroup efforts to promote renewable energies.
i have serious doubts, however - and i say this with caution - whether the council shares the commitment of parliament to the joint objective of doubling the share of renewable energy in energy consumption by 2010. the first reading of parliament's resolution called for binding targets for the development of biofuels.
similarly to the directive on the promotion of electricity from renewable sources, there was no chance of this in the council.
we want to see a shift towards renewable energy in the field of fuels, so as to make a positive contribution to the necessary reduction in co2, to reduce dependence on oil and to provide positive impetus for rural development.
the benefits of renewable raw materials in the transport sector have been discussed at length.
it is about reducing emissions, it is about greater independence from oil, and it is also, and above all, about jobs in agriculture and in rural areas.
i think it is right that we should take account of the environmental impact of biofuels, but we must not be one-sided.
sustainable growth should be achieved, as should full employment, more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
the small and mediumsized enterprises must be given a favourable environment.
america’s refusal to press forward with ratification of the comprehensive test ban treaty hardly strengthens the hand of the international atomic energy agency and others seeking to prevent the proliferation of nuclear technology in iran, north korea and beyond.
we should continue to help countries which find it hard to meet their counter-terrorism obligations under un security council resolution 1373. and we should continue to work for a less unequal world – for example in the wto doha development agenda, by carrying forward the monterrey decisions on development financing and by implementing the johannesburg decisions on sustainable development.
that is why we must also develop the strength to put forward, as soon as possible after a possible war in iraq, visions that will enable us to put the transatlantic relationship on a new footing, beyond nato and the security alliance, in order to make it sustainable in the long term and thus to win the support of citizens on both sides of the atlantic for this relationship.
the aim is to maintain the international military presence in order to establish a stable security environment enabling the government of the former yugoslav republic of macedonia to implement the ohrid framework agreement.
in the view of the commission, the european union operation in the former yugoslav republic of macedonia will contribute to consolidating a stable environment conducive to the implementation of reforms that will facilitate its future integration with the european union.
on the other hand, i would like to express the hope that at least in the immediate environment of the european union, where the real thing is at stake, the core of europe - and the balkans are one of them - that we will continue to show that we are able to make our contribution as the european union to the preservation of peace.
i therefore very much appreciate the constructive reports by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the committee on legal affairs and the internal market confirming a growing consensus on the way forward.
i would like to ask you, commissioner, to make a real effort to create a consumer information directive along the lines of the environmental information directive.
the framework directive will simplify the regulatory environment on unfair commercial practices by repealing the predominant business-to-consumer provisions of the misleading advertising directive and by repealing, for example, the inertia-selling provisions in the distance-selling directive.
in addition, the general clause in the directive will replace all the divergent general clauses in the member states and so create a more uniform regulatory environment.
it is therefore time to have a frank discussion about what the real problems of our time are, what the real challenges are, how we are going to deal with the big issues, from weapons of mass destruction to the issues of the environment, poverty and inequality, and to open a frank dialogue with the united states, a dialogue through which we hope we can really find a way of meaningful cooperation on security, the promotion of meaningful peace, a meaningful global governance based on values, values shared by the european union, values that we as the european union share, values that are also the basis of this community in which we live.
no government in europe looks good at this hour, and we should recognize: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
the joint research effort, the networks of excellence, the mobility of students and researchers, the major programmes on life science, renewable energy and the environment are key.
the council conclusions, in point e, state that the european union should take the lead in sustainable development, internally and externally.
i am therefore quite clear that what is happening in iraq now is contrary to the conclusions of point e, the war in iraq is not sustainable!
it brings suffering and destruction to the population and weakens the position of the industrialized countries as a whole in the global concept of sustainable development.
secondly, i feel that within the european union too, sustainable development is being taken as the last carriage of the train.
i welcome the mention of promoting environmental technology and clean transport, but i believe that we must promote a greater overall ecological renewal of our industrial society in order to generate employment and to promote sustainable development, because otherwise we cannot achieve both objectives.
we need clear objectives and clear indicators for sustainable development, just as we do for employment policy, because sustainability is not a fig leaf, but it is in the interests of the european union to put it on as a modern suit!
the european council also welcomed the fact that the european union had taken the initiative in the area of the environment and that it had taken the necessary steps to ensure that the environment is protected.
they may also pose risks to human health and the environment.
this commission report focuses on sustainability in the whole economy.
this means, above all, reducing resource consumption and, through progressive standards, putting an end to economic activities that pollute the environment as quickly as possible.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european environment agency.
for me, the fundamental element of a sustainable plant protection strategy is that integrated farming becomes a socially normal way of production.
there's a study by the u.s. environmental protection agency that made it clear years ago that 90 percent of all pesticides are unnecessary.
i would therefore like to make it clear once again that our group - as we have already made clear in the paul lannoye report - is committed to reducing the use of pesticides and wants to ensure that prices also tell the environmental truth by means of a levy, because ultimately consumers have to pay higher groundwater prices because pesticides are still so cheap and used on such a large scale.
a5-0044/2003 by mr lannoye, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive (com (2002) 459 - c5-0382/2002 - 2002/0206 (cod)) on the restriction of the placing on the market and use of nonylphenol, nonylphenol ethoxylate and cement (twenty-sixth amendment to council directive 76/769/eec).
in addition to reducing emissions of greenhouse gases and noise, which are harmful to the environment and human health, a key objective is to improve road safety in general.
so i think we need to create a new partnership here, a partnership that promotes language learning through e-learning and also intercultural dialogue, and above all in the school environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has been involved in the development of the european union's policy on the environment.
it is only when the czech youth in particular can move and develop in a wider democratic environment that the wounds that undoubtedly still exist on all sides will be scarred, hopefully to be healed completely one day.
there was a need to integrate russians who had settled there for decades and to repair the enormous environmental damage caused by the soviet military legacy.
we have nevertheless voted against the admission of the czech republic because we want to send a signal to the political environment in the czech republic that there are still open wounds from the past vis-à-vis the displaced germans, which must be healed together in a mutual dialogue.
we need some time to make the necessary contributions to the management of crises in the geographical environment of the european union, both civil and military.
let me first express my gratitude to the rapporteur, mr liese, and to the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for all their hard work on this important and ambitious directive: important, as it covers a very promising field of medicine; and ambitious, since it forms a crucial element in our overall health strategy.
i would like to thank the colleagues here in parliament - in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, but also in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market - and the rapporteur, mr bartolozzi, and those who have helped us here in parliament and in the commission to get on the same page.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection supports the commission's proposal, but shares the view of many experts, such as the standing committee of european doctors, that the proposal is only a step in the right direction.
- the next item is the report (a5-0049/2003) by mr ferreira, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/35/ec on sweeteners for use in foodstuffs (com (2002) 375 - c5-0341/2002 - 2002/0152 (cod)).
i therefore very much support the proposal of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
i am glad that we have the opportunity today to talk about this directive, not so much because my heart is attached to questions of the environment, but simply because this report also shows that the european union is on the way to a policy which is: we want to move away from the end-of-pipe policy and move more and more in the direction of developing modern and environmentally friendly products in the sense of economic and social sustainability.
that is, we want to motivate industry to move step by step to other products and no longer rely on the catalyst at the end of the chain or on the sewage treatment plant or on the large exhaust systems, but at the beginning of the process we want to move to new products that are sustainable.
i am therefore very pleased, commissioner, that you were present at the hearing of the epp group and that cooperation between the environment sector and your department has developed exceptionally well in recent years.
the beneficiaries of this policy are not only the consumers but also the environment, water policy and, above all, the internal market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's environmental policy is not in conformity with the treaty.
the north exploits monocultures and uses the raw materials produced here at minimal prices, under the most difficult conditions in an environment of poverty, to gain an advantage for itself.
it will help to save energy, to use energy efficiently and to reduce co2 emissions.
this applies in particular to the reference values used to demonstrate energy savings.
i am speaking here today in my capacity as shadow rapporteur for my group on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on the highly technical dossier of mr norbert glante.
the environmental aspects also shape our position.
the environment committee agreed without a vote against, after the vote had been postponed twice because of the somewhat lengthy debate.
the importance of a secure, economical and environmentally friendly energy supply is unquestionable.
the construction of power stations based on the combined heat and power system is another way of ensuring high-level energy production.
compared to separate generation, it has the advantage of being the most efficient use of fuels, whether fossil or renewable.
in addition, the chp process can avoid co2 emissions.
in this sense, increased support for chp plants is an essential instrument of the package of measures required to comply with the kyoto protocol on global climate protection.
the potential of combined heat and power as a means of energy saving is not yet fully exploited in the european union.
their much wider use is essential for climate protection and conservation of resources.
in addition to ensuring energy supply, the basic objective of the draft directive presented by the commission is also to create a framework which can promote the construction and proper operation of chp plants.
the two-stage procedure proposed by the commission and the division into energy for agriculture, industry and heating do not provide this transparency but simply require too much administrative effort.
at least that's what the environment committee decided.
small and medium-sized plants provide decentralization, and this can very well mean efficiency in terms of environmental protection.
we must do more to combat global warming.
it is not helpful, but rather a colossal waste of public money, to pursue for decades in all the member states a spending policy which fails to set new priorities but which is aimed at preserving long-established achievements and thus closes its eyes to economic realities.
tomorrow we will be voting in parliament on the environmental liability directive, and that will be the end of a long and, as you know, very controversial debate.
we want to increase environmental responsibility.
if you cause environmental damage in the course of your work, you must be held accountable.
there is also a need to compensate for damage to biodiversity, i.e.
for the so-called ecological damage.
but i think it is good that we are entering new territory here, and my group supports liability for environmental damage, even though we all know that it will be difficult to calculate it in the end.
i understand that a broad consensus on environmental responsibility is not always possible.
the report represents a major step towards improving environmental protection and should therefore be strongly supported in the plenary tomorrow.
the environmental liability directive should not primarily apply to those areas where international liability regimes are in force.
we overestimate our environment a lot, often too much.
it is therefore high time that we in the european union set up strict rules to protect the environment, for example, uniform provisions on environmental liability, which we can finally deal with today in the plenary after a long struggle in advance and in the relevant committees.
environmental responsibility is not about punishing the old mother who does not diligently collect her pet's legacy while walking her dog.
we need liability rules that hold all environmental offenders accountable, without exception.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and has also taken steps to ensure that the environment is protected.
it is absolutely clear that the polluter pays principle should also apply to pollution from the oil industry, the nuclear industry and the release of genetically modified organisms.
are not the names erika and prestige, in particular, symbolic of enormous environmental problems that are still unresolved?
it is only logical that our parliament should ensure that the operators of companies which are damaging to the environment are able to cover the costs of repairs and rehabilitation by means of insurance or other financial measures.
the responsibility or the cost of repairing damage and restoring the environment must not be passed on to the public authorities and thus to the citizens.
if the house follows the proposals of the group of the party of european socialists and others rather than those of the legal affairs committee, we shall have an environmental liability law which is fair to the burden and at the same time preventive.
these requests are the minimum that citizens rightly expect from a european environmental responsibility.
the importance of this environmental directive has been stressed by many speakers.
we should have been ambitious enough to make it the centrepiece of our environmental policy.
the accidents must be caused by negligence or culpable behaviour, so that biodiversity damage caused by authorised gm seeds is not covered.
i think that the failure to introduce a general environmental liability insurance is also a mistake, because we must ensure that liability for damage to property and health is not limited to natura 2000 sites but extends beyond them.
i hope, however, that if the commission has the foresight, we will be able to make this environmental liability directive the heart of it, and not leave it as a swiss cheese full of holes, so that it would only be used in a very few cases and we would not achieve what we want, which is to give industry incentives to take precautions, and that we will be able to put the polluter principle at the centre.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- the next item is the report (a5-0123/2003) by mr sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on environmental agreements concluded at community level under the action plan 'simplifying and improving the regulatory environment'.
i could imagine that we would conclude treaties with the countries surrounding the european union and that all the technical elements of the treaties in our union treaty or our future constitution would then apply to those countries as well, so that, for example, in the energy sector, those countries would participate in the liberalisation of the energy market, in the projects for trans-european networks and so on.
why only cooperation in the energy sector?
we have now reached a stage with this enlargement where we can perhaps make some rounding ups, but no new entries are allowed, which call into question the union's capacity for integration, which completely upset the balance between these 25 countries, where - if one wanted to form a common opinion - the balancing of different and conflicting positions would absorb so much energy that there would be no room left for vigorous external action.
i would like to mention, for example, the energy dialogue, the initiative to create a common european economic area, and the action plan for cooperation in the field of justice and home affairs, which, however, have no legal basis in the treaty.
a major issue in relations between the two sides, the signing of the multilateral nuclear environment and programme for russia, has already been set for 21 may in stockholm.
so we have focused our efforts on the environment, namely russia's commitment to ratify the kyoto protocol, on nuclear safety, on maritime safety and on justice and home affairs, with emphasis on progress in the negotiations on the readmission agreement.
we attach particular importance to cooperation in areas which we consider to be risks which can only be tackled jointly, such as environmental protection, nuclear safety, justice and home affairs.
the neighbourhood policy discussed here this afternoon plays a major role in our relations with russia, but there are other important factors besides, such as the security of the european union's energy supply, the common fight against terrorism, the cooperation needed to solve major regional and world political problems.
i would also like to point out that the energy dialogue with russia has produced concrete results.
the agreement on projects of common interest and the energy technology centre in moscow are examples of this.
next week we will be in stockholm signing the multilateral nuclear environmental programme with russia and other donor countries.
this is truly a breakthrough in dealing with the nuclear waste in northwestern russia.
the energy alliance is important to me, but it is not enough.
while the sharing of russia's enormous energy resources is being negotiated and arms cooperation is being negotiated, fundamental democratic rights and respect for human rights are no longer relevant.
this proposal aims to provide greater flexibility to the member states in their choice of the most appropriate control strategy under particular socio-economic conditions, thus conferring more responsibility for the measures applied, notably in relation to compliance with relevant public health and environmental requirements.
– the commission shares the concern of the honourable member that on the international level the rights of audio-visual performers, unlike the rights of authors, oral performers and phonogram producers, have not yet been updated and adapted to the new digital environment.
i am very sorry that this important issue, not only for taiwan but for all people in the age of globalisation and global travel, is not being pushed forward with enough energy.
firstly, with this legislative package we are paving the way for more competition in the european energy markets, we are paving the way for a truly integrated internal energy market.
our aim is not to replace public monopolies with private monopolies, but to have a broad, open internal energy market.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not undermined by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in fact a policy of the member states.
let me emphasize again what claude turmes has just said, namely that the internal energy market must be governed by the competition law of the general agreement and must be judged accordingly.
(applause from the centre)
vice-chairman of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
it is also good that this law paves the way for the proper location of new production, namely near the main points of consumption, and not where the primary energy used is particularly cheap, and this would create massive new transport networks.
after 15 years of debate, they are taking the freedoms guaranteed to citizens of the union in the treaties seriously in the energy sector.
i would remind you that one of the reasons why we started this discussion on the liberalisation of energy markets in the early 1990s was that prices in europe were very high, and not only the companies but also ourselves complained that we were at a competitive disadvantage here compared to our main competitor, the usa.
as someone who has been in this parliament for a long time, i would like to point out that this process actually began at the end of the 1980s - by the way, with an absurd variant, namely that the white paper on the internal energy market did not mention energy at all - and that at that time an attempt was made to open up the internal market through the european court of justice.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment, and i am sure that the commission will be able to take part in them.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life in the member states.
this was supplemented by the report to the european council on the development of trade policy and the preferential agreements of the community, which sets out the eu's objective of reflecting the nature of the relations with the partners concerned and a broader geopolitical environment.
the european parliament and the report by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy support this approach by the commission.
these include improving the quality of jobs through education and training methods, increasing the level of investment in enterprises, lifelong learning strategies tailored to the needs and skills of those concerned, reducing subsidies in sectors that are not sustainable, and creating jobs in regions with high unemployment.
the negative structural, social and environmental consequences in the affected areas would be undeniable.
our aim is to maintain a sustainable, all-round milk production, especially in grassland areas.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is compatible with the common market.
sustainable agriculture can replace a good deal of environmental, social and regional policy.
the european union is committed to a comprehensive, sustainable agriculture, and in many regions of europe, dairy farming is at the heart of this.
the preamble to article 1 sets out our priorities as a parliament: safeguarding farmers' incomes while promoting environmental protection and employment in rural areas.
i would like to conclude by mentioning another important point: renewable resources.
there is considerable potential here, offering farmers in many regions viable alternative crops while having positive effects on the environment.
i am very pleased that our amendment, contrary to the commission's proposal, could continue to allow the cultivation of renewable raw materials on land which is being set aside.
without this, the european union cannot achieve a sustainable multifunctional agriculture covering all its territory.
the commission has always been right in saying that only economically sound enterprises can be sustainable.
the concept of sustainability does not always have to be reinvented.
food is not a waste of resources, and farmers produce and maintain the countryside with eu support, perhaps at a much lower cost than urban farms.
the overall purpose, as we have heard already, of this united nations agreement is to establish common rules to be followed in transboundary movements of gmos in order to protect biodiversity and human health at world level.
so the commission can accept amendment no 19. it can accept amendments nos 24-26 on improved public access to information regarding transboundary movements of gmos, which is in line with the general framework of public access to environmental information and with directive 2001/18/ec on the deliberate release of gmos into the environment.
we all want to avoid a conciliation procedure on this report, because it is, after all, about the implementation of the cartagena protocol on biosafety, to safeguard the biodiversity that is so dear to us all.
the proposal for a directive on environmental liability has also just been voted at first reading.
the protocol will therefore enter into force very soon, and a new era of international environmental law, an era of international genetic engineering law, will begin.
the fact that all the political groups support the compromise reached is therefore encouraging and gives hope for the implementation of future environmental agreements.
(applause from the centre)
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy adopted an opinion on the proposal.
in hamburg, for example, 80 per cent of so2 emissions and about 20 per cent of particulate matter now come from the shipping sector, although there are, of course, far fewer ships on the road than cars and trucks.
the aim is to achieve a sulphur content of 0.5% in order to achieve a real reduction in so2 and particulate matter emissions.
if it is possible to reduce so2 and particulate matter emissions in other ways than by reducing sulphur, then this is of course welcome.
it's about the goal of reducing emissions.
i believe that the commission has a duty to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the fact that it is not able to take account of the specific needs of the environment.
it is self-evident that our foreign policy is aimed at promoting human rights, democracy and environmental protection.
or do we want to agree that europe should assume a regional role here, for example the task of guaranteeing peace and security in its geographical environment?
(applause from the centre)
vice-chairman of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
as the chairman of the committee on industry, trade, research and energy, i have an obligation to make a statement here first.
it is worded as follows: the european parliament, the council and the commission underline the need for member states to ensure that adequate financial resources for decommissioning and waste management activities subject to audit in the member states are actually used for their intended purpose and managed in a transparent manner, in order to avoid obstacles to fair competition in the energy market.
the report has succeeded in introducing labelling of electricity, so that in future consumers will know where their electricity comes from and how it was produced, and will finally be able to decide whether they want to buy nuclear or renewable electricity.
the consumer is thus also able to participate in environmental policy decisions, and this is a great success!
i am very happy, of course, that we have finally found a passage which allows competition law to apply to nuclear energy.
we must finally put an end to the privileges of nuclear energy.
in a liberalised internal energy market, it cannot be possible for nuclear energy to have a special status and not be subject to competition law.
eu-ukraine cooperation is based on the partnership and cooperation agreement, which establishes the legal framework for cooperation in a wide range of areas, and in particular, inter alia, energy, trade and investment, justice and home affairs, approximation of laws, environment, transport and regional and cross-border cooperation.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to support the development of the community's energy policy.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection adopted a number of amendments to the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment.
national cancer registries should also be set up without delay to finally obtain meaningful data on how risk factors tobacco, diet, environmental influences or lifestyle may influence cancer.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
however, i am very concerned that we as legislators should pay attention to the traditional small-scale farming structures in europe, in order to guarantee sufficient and safe food production and supply in a sustainable way, even in less densely populated regions of europe.
the new constitution puts a new promise in articles 2 and 3, namely sustainability, justice, security and solidarity for european citizens.
it starts with an analysis of the security environment in which we live, obviously regional conflicts, the causes of those conflicts, which affect us: poverty, exclusion, or lack of natural resources, to move on to also analyze the more recent threats such as international terrorism, the proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and failed states.
i believe that the document which the commission has recently presented on the new europe and its borders has a lot to do with where and how the european union should start to maintain its security environment.
these new threats are also dynamic, so we must prevent them, try to prevent them as soon as possible, so that we can have the possibility that they will not become a reality, whether they are caused by hunger, climate change or conflicts of another nature: ethnic or religious.
i am thinking here of un disarmament and non-proliferation conventions; environmental treaties such as the kyoto protocol on climate change; and, of course, the international criminal court.
in order to prevent future violent conflicts we have to have policies on environmental degradation, poverty and global governance, aids, justice and home affairs, nuclear safety, and so on.
the other europe, which should be organized here wisely on a multilateral rather than a bilateral basis, in the sense of a european economic area plus, our relations with russia and the third world as well as with the mediterranean region are of crucial importance, but we must indeed consider in this context how to proceed with the united states, and i believe that the link through nato alone will not be sustainable in the long term.
companies must demonstrate the positive effect on the animal or in the feed and the absence of any risk to human health, animal health or the environment when applying for authorisation or re-authorisation of a feed additive.
the risk of harm to human health and the environment should be eliminated as far as possible.
the third point concerns the case of the terrorist klein, which has now been closed for some time, where the judge, in his reasoning for the judgment, expressly praised the behaviour of mr cohn-bendit and presented it as a typical example of how one can also make a positive contribution to the fact that such people can break free from the terrorist environment.
i am ready to accept that it should be mandatory for contracting authorities and entities to indicate where information on the applicable social, fiscal and environmental obligations may be obtained.
as for the environmental aspects and in general on the issue of award criteria, the amendments which parliament has tabled clearly show some differing views.
in full accordance with the current state of jurisprudence, the common positions already clarify that environmental characteristics may be used as award criteria and that it is not necessary to show that each and every award criterion taking individually provides an economic benefit for the contracting authorities or entities.
in respect of social award criteria, we should also keep in mind that the common positions already clarify that such criteria may be used where they meet the same conditions as environmental award criteria.
i would like to mention one more aspect, the environmental and social criteria.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental aspects of the directive are not affected.
i therefore have serious doubts whether it is right to treat the question of environmental and social criteria systematically in this case.
our law-abiding smes must not be put in difficulty by competitors who do not respect collective agreements, nor do they care about the applicable labour law or the provisions on health and safety at work or environmental protection.
the concept of 'optimal' is linked to quality, sustainability, i.e.
respect for social, environmental and other considerations.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources.
the decisions on the liberalisation of the energy market, on rail freight and on the new transeuropean energy networks and on the extension of the transport network were the subject of long discussions, but we have completed them.
the adoption of the new sustainable development strategy, the setting of environmental objectives in areas such as renewable energy sources, the decisions to retire single-hull tankers and the agreement on environmental responsibility round off this summary.
i would like to stress here that the decision to withdraw single-hull tankers, in which all the parties concerned cooperated, was an important decision for the protection of the environment, a decision which had not been taken in previous attempts, years ago, after the erika accident.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos is a welcome one.
finally, two subjects of the european parliament's immediate interest were the interinstitutional agreement on improving the regulatory environment and, secondly, the regulation on the statute for european political parties.
this is a new development, because the untying of community contributions from production, the protection of the land and the environment and food security measures, even if only partially, is a real revolution in our agricultural policy.
the six months of the greek presidency of the council are undoubtedly among the most dramatic in the recent history of the european union, and i think that the greek presidency can be congratulated for having fulfilled its task with great sensitivity, consistency and energy.
but we must also take account of agriculture, the environment, small-scale seed producers, industry, the food retail trade and many other sectors.
otherwise, these two regulations would quickly become waste.
we have written a new text into the environmental liability proposal.
that is why we have added a text in the environmental liability proposal.
commissioner wallström, you told us back then in the release directive that liability would be included in the environmental liability directive.
the second reading in the committee on the environment adopted three amendments, all of which have the same objective, namely to exempt from the labelling requirement technical aids made from substances on the list of allergenic substances which are no longer present in the final product and therefore do not cause allergic reactions.
we have just heard that the way we handle our packaging also determines what our ecological future looks like, and that there is of course a market in this area, a market where large packaging fractions compete with each other, and we have to think about how we can achieve optimal efficiencies.
the amendments we have tabled therefore emphasize that packaging materials which are not suitable for thermal recovery due to their inert nature, which do not exceed 0.1% of the proven quantities of packaging in the community and for which the recovery of materials or raw materials is prohibited for reasons of environmental protection or cost-benefit ratio should not be covered by this directive.
we are thus improving environmental protection and giving planning certainty to important industries.
ceramic packaging accounts for only 0.1% of packaging waste generated in the eu.
ceramics are made of burnt clay and are often kept or reused in many households due to their artistic and creative appearance, so they do not end up in household waste.
it is not an environmental problem.
waste management already established or yet to be established in some member states under this directive should concern materials suitable for recovery.
mr president, at last we have a compromise package on the table and this is of huge importance to climate policy within the european union and across the world.
i know that this has not been an easy task, particularly since emissions trading has been a new subject for many – if not all – of us.
climate change is a core concern of the european union and when we signed up to the kyoto protocol we knew that this commitment would have to be followed by solid action.
the emissions trading scheme is a centrepiece of that action and a strong signal of that commitment.
at the heart of the european climate change programme that the commission has set up is the preparation of concrete proposals for action, several of which have already been adopted by this house.
as you know, our approach to climate change follows three tracks: a leading role internationally in establishing the framework for global action, emissions trading within the eu, as the most cost-effective way to cut emissions and, thirdly, specific sectoral measures to reduce emissions, for example by promoting renewables, increasing energy efficiency and reducing co2 emissions from cars.
we need to take serious emission reduction measures inside the european union if we are to be credible when we call for global action to fight global warming.
the directive will signify a breakthrough for both climate change and emissions trading.
in this way the european union will reaffirm its commitment to the kyoto protocol and underline the need to deliver emission reductions in the fight against climate change.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not disrupted by the introduction of new technologies.
it is not a question of protecting the environment, it is a purely business calculation.
the principle of climate protection must be clearly placed before the principle of decommissioning and relocation.
or the second question, madam commissioner: is it ensured that the issue of emission allowances is really based on climate protection and not on the industrial policy of individual member states?
controlling that spending is based on fair criteria and on the objective of reducing climate-relevant greenhouse gases is a key part of your responsibility.
and thirdly, could it not also be that this could, because of comparative cost advantages, contribute to indirect promotion of nuclear energy?
he has fought with great energy, determination and expertise for a good and workable system of greenhouse gas emissions trading.
the aim of the system is to reduce the cost of complying with the kyoto protocol and - which i believe is much more important - to create an incentive for companies to exploit new potential for energy and greenhouse gas savings.
that is why we should also implement market-based environmental protection, and that is what this system is intended to achieve.
we all know that coal can be replaced very easily by gas or other energy sources, but that it is not so easy to reduce co2 emissions in the case of lime, cement and steel.
i also think that this is an expression of european identity, because climate policy has a good sound in europe.
in this emissions trading, two things must not be confused: emissions trading does not save a ton of co2, it only saves it through investment.
but the investment is encouraged by emissions trading, which means that a process is triggered to find the most cost-effective way to save co2.
this is also economically sound and should actually be seen by industry and by many government leaders - some still find emissions trading funny.
if it costs 20 to 30 euros per tonne, then it is already quite different and then of course it also has an impact on energy policy.
the modernisation of agriculture, the protection of the environment, consumer protection and food safety are all essential needs for our citizens, and italy will work on them in pursuit of the objectives already identified by previous presidencies.
(applause from the right) the second priority is to consider the sustainability of european pension and social security systems.
i would also like to assure you that we will work to intensify the already existing relations with africa, to which we are linked by its history full of painful pages, with asia, with regional organisations, with the united nations system in order to take forward together the great challenges of fighting poverty and disease, of protecting the environment, of preventing conflicts.
beyond the content of the summit itself - which proved to be one of the most intensive in recent years - the most significant element was the firm will, expressly expressed by both sides, to recreate a climate of cooperation and solidarity.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
these include legislative proposals on the following subjects: temporary work; public procurement; measures following the prestige disaster; security of gas and electricity supply; the second package of liberalisation of rail services; environmental liability rules; implementation of the 10-year action plan for disabled people, to be presented by the commission during the italian semester; procurement rules; the creation of a single european sky; the ambitious and important directive on the traceability of gmos; the finalisation of the european patent directive; the harmonisation of asylum procedures; the refugee status; and, finally, the agreement with esa for the development of the european space policy.
(applause from the centre) of course, this has been somewhat of a waste, and i will tell you why: what you do as prime minister of italy is what the colleagues in the italian parliament have been elected to discuss with you, but what you do as president of the council is what we are responsible for here.
i should not have had to read what i found there on environmental policy in english, because it does not really exist.
you have referred to the lisbon process, and i ask you, mr president-in-office, have you noticed that the lisbon process requires that sustainability and environmental policy be integrated into all other policy areas?
i would also like to know whether it is true that your government has published a paper entitled 'environment as an opportunity' which proposes that the italian presidency of the council should use the six months to reduce and level off the european union's environmental legislation.
i would also like to know whether you will use your presidency of the council to ensure that the existing european union legislation is implemented in italy, for example the environmental impact assessment and other matters.
i would like to know, mr berlusconi, whether you will also pursue environmental law during your presidency of the council, for which you will be responsible.
in particular, environmental responsibility will be on your agenda during your presidency of the council.
we too have agreed to the compromise on emissions trading because it is a really new instrument for protecting the environment, which means that in future 50% of co2 emissions will be virtually capped.
we hope that this is the instrument that will lead to all member states actually presenting their national allocation plans next spring and that we will then also have the opportunity to use this new instrument to really create an economic instrument that will hopefully also pay off for climate protection.
we'll also see that climate action pays off for business, pays off for everyone.
however, we also need a new regulation in the future, an action plan for co2 emissions from road and air transport, which are increasing dramatically.
it will lead to climate action being taken seriously, and we will be able to meet our kyoto commitments.
i also hope that this decision will lead to countries that have not yet ratified - like russia - will still ratify, so that we can really start to act on climate change.
i want to make it very clear that this is a colonial war fuelled by the energy interests of gazprom and others, that is what it is really about.
we are therefore well on our way to bringing together the interests of the environment, the interests of the transport industry and the interests of the european union economy as a whole.
mr swoboda, you have rightly pointed out that we are trying to improve the environment for everyone.
that is why, when we changed the road tolls, parliament called for a greater spread of the burden according to the level of emissions.
i hope, madam vice-president, that you will soon give us a revision of the road charging scheme and that we will also make a distinction in the environmental sense.
it does not take a prophet to predict that the issue of environmental friendliness and sustainability of the transport system will also reappear on the transport policy agenda of the coming election period.
the fact that the committee on agriculture has asked a man to deliver the opinion and that the women have agreed to it shows how much we take this issue of equality and equal opportunities seriously, because we believe that these are not just questions not just not to be restrictive of the social, environmental and cultural achievements of women, which are undisputed, but that it is about the economic development of rural areas.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
we are thinking of developing tourism in the countryside, of promoting alternative energy sources and regional marketing circuits.
you have made the situation very clear, and i was pleased that as a former environment minister you also pointed out that disasters have a cause.
we will have floods, we will have storms, we will have heat and fires - at different rates, and you, mr barnier, have also indicated that this has something to do with climate change.
we're meeting at least half of the kyoto criteria right now: cutting emissions that damage the climate, that create greenhouse gases and so on.
greenhouse gases, such as those found in agriculture, such as those found in waste management, but also, and especially, in energy or transport.
road transport, which we know is one of the biggest sources of greenhouse gases, is increasing.
at present, road transport accounts for about 20% of total emissions, and in 2010, the target year for the kyoto protocol, it will be 28%.
if i say that we are never ambitious in environmental policy, of course, that will not surprise you.
i have been involved in environmental policy since then, but i also know very well where we all stand when it comes to actual legislation.
for example, it also means that we reduce industrial emissions, that we take measures to improve controls, that we tax activities that are harmful.
what did we do earlier this year when it came to taxing, for example, energy production?
that sustainable development must be at the heart of the structural funds, that economic, social and employment aspects and economic aspects must be taken into account in the same way, and that eu funds must only be used when this is appropriate.
i hope, commissioner, that you will finally present us with a clear concept of sustainable development through the structural funds.
this is the only way to ensure that the aid received so far is sustainable and not wasted.
it could disrupt the business climate.
but if by 'commercial' you mean that ends have to meet, that is, it has to have economic sustainability, then there is no way whatsoever of escaping that commitment.
the rapporteur has presented a very comprehensive report which is a powerful and multifaceted illustration of the fact that sustainable development cannot be achieved without good health.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
forest fires in particular have caused heavy damage; the victims are deplorable and the destruction of flora and fauna endangers the ecosystem.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's fishing fleet is not affected by the pollution of the seas.
(applause from the centre)
the commission (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal we are now discussing obviously concerns other types of activities and actions, although it also relates to energy.
i would like to congratulate the international energy agency on the progress it has made in taking account of the risks of supply disruptions.
moreover, we have an accounting system which, as you know, differs, for example, from the accounting system for reserves which the international energy agency itself has.
the aim of the directive is, in a nutshell, to ensure daily and operational security of supply in a competitive environment.
madam president, with these two proposals, the first, relating to oil stocks, which seeks to bring the reality of the systems operating within the international energy agency into line with the functioning of the internal market of the european union.
the energy council has even officially decided that.
on the other hand, we are sure that the international energy agency, with its instruments created in the 1970s, cannot exploit all the possibilities today, but that the strategic reserve - including what the united states is doing to increase the strategic reserve - and the instruments of the international energy agency can be quite sufficient to help in cases of conflict.
we are now giving credence to those who say that the opening up of the market will jeopardize the security of energy supplies.
if what is necessary in the social and ecological field for the development of rural areas is now also made available as a subsidy that can be mined, then we should have a discussion about this in this parliament and we should make our position clear in the next round of the wto.
in the field of environment, consumer protection and health, we are continually tackling very ambitious projects at european level aimed at improving the living conditions of all our citizens: environmental action programme, public health action programme, consumer protection strategy, environmental and health strategy and so on and so forth.
we know that there is still a lot of institutional work to be done in the ten new member states in particular in the fields of environmental protection, consumer policy and health protection.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
as the house will know and as my colleague commissioner schreyer has said, the commission's annual policy strategy for 2004 has identified three policy areas as priorities, namely enlargement, stability and sustainable growth.
we need more and more sustainable jobs, and we also want to support and strengthen training skilled training in the member states and provide incentives for entrepreneurs to do their duty.
the commission is not i am here to deliver this opinion on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, as its rapporteur.
- the next item is the report (a5-0232/2003) by mr whitehead, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision establishing a general framework for financing community activities in support of consumer policy for the years 2004 to 2007 (com (2003) 44 - c5-0022/2003 - 2003/0020 (cod)).
- the next item is the report (a5-0259/2003) by mr andersson, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the joint report of the commission and the council on sustainable and adequate pensions (com (2002) 737 - 2003/2040 (ini)).
- the next item is the report (a5-0302/2003) by mr jonckheer, on behalf of the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy, on the draft council directive restructuring the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity (com (2003) 0804 - c5-0192/2003 - 1997/0111 (cns))
i would like to thank the commissioner for his reply.
the commissioner has also made it very clear that this minimal solution is a small breakthrough, but that the european union has not really succeeded in adopting a coherent approach to energy taxation.
it is truly regrettable that the fourth environmental action programme, which already provided that not only environmental legislation but also taxation law could help to promote the sustainability of the economy and development, could not be enforced, and in this respect the history of suffering of this directive actually goes back a little further than 1999. the directive also has, of course, the lack - as has already been said - of low minimum rates, the non-indexation of minimum rates and also the problem of derogations.
i think there has always been a consensus here that there must be exceptions for energy-intensive companies, but that these exceptions should at least be accompanied by certain conditions to overcome the situation.
the positive aspect is that this directive not only provides a framework for the taxation of all forms of energy, including electricity, but also supports the promotion of renewable energies and can therefore certainly provide an additional impetus for the further development of these renewable energies.
this is a positive development, because we know that renewable energy is an opportunity not only for europe but for the whole of world civilization, because everyone benefits from the tax incentives for the use of environmentally friendly forms of energy.
firstly, the primary energy itself is - as a rule - free of charge, and secondly, it can be obtained and converted wherever energy is consumed.
the steering effect of tax incentives for energy use is therefore an important complement to eu environmental policy and, i think, to emissions trading.
i do not see any contradiction here, but i see here also the complementarity of instruments for steering our european economy and life towards sustainable development.
it is also welcome that this directive will finally allow the special measures for the preferential tax treatment of biofuels to come into force, on which we have already reached an agreement, but whose regulation was of course linked to the general energy taxation.
i would just like to emphasize once again that many member states have already benefited in the past from the revenue effect of environmental taxes, especially energy taxes.
mrs kauppi has said that hydrogen is a source of energy, but i am afraid that is not true.
however, i would like to welcome the fact that the union's values and objectives are linked to sustainable growth, full employment, solidarity as well as the social market economy, competition and freedom.
this is what the future will show, and the future of an open, free and sustainable knowledge society is most seriously at risk from this decision.
in order to allow the union to be refined and refocused on its core missions, we demand in particular that no expansion of powers in the coordination of economic and employment policies be carried out, so as not to undermine the freedom, competitiveness and ownership of these policies at national level; no legal basis is created for the harmonisation of services of general interest, in particular for water supply and sewerage systems; that competences in asylum and immigration policy are limited to minimum standards, with the exception of the rules on access to the labour market for third-country nationals; there is no expansion of the powers of promotion and coordination in the fields of sport, energy and civil protection; the commission's proposal is to limit the powers relating to the internal market to measures designed primarily and directly to remove perceived obstacles.
secondly, we believe that only broad international action can create the enabling environment needed for the success of the roadmap.
we need a european transport policy that is technically modern - galileo was mentioned as a project - and we need a sustainable transport policy, which means giving priority to rail and water.
we also had very high levels of ozone concentrations all over europe and the two phenomena are unfortunately linked.
ground-level ozone, or photochemical smog as it is also called, is the result of three components: vocs – volatile organic compounds – nox – nitrogen oxide – and sunshine.
ozone is an aggressive gas which attacks our respiratory systems and damages plants, even at relatively low concentrations.
member states have committed themselves to achieving significant reductions in voc emissions in 2010 in order to meet the so-called national emissions ceiling.
as requested by member states, this proposal for a directive targets a group of products which contributes significantly to total voc emissions in europe, namely paints and varnishes for buildings and products for vehicle refinishing.
limiting the solvent content in these products is considered to be the only practicable way to help reduce voc emissions and, consequently, air pollution from this major source.
this proposal has the simpler and broader aim of improving the quality of the air we all breathe, by reducing emissions of vocs, thereby reducing the formation of ozone.
we have to act now if we want summer sunshine and fine weather to be experienced as sources of pleasure, rather than sources of air pollution and threats to human health and the environment.
i thank my colleague, mr giorgio lisi, for the report he has presented on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds from paints and varnishes in vehicles.
vocs, or volatile organic hydrocarbons, are a major contributor to ground-level ozone.
emissions are also generated by components from solvent-containing products.
the health problems associated with ground-level ozone and smog have increased considerably in many member states in recent years.
ozone pollution can cause eye irritation, sore throats and breathing problems in vulnerable groups.
in the environment, effects on photosynthesis should be considered.
i support the european commission's initiative to introduce community-wide measures to reduce voc emissions.
i also expressly support the extension of the directive, adopted by a large majority in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, from volatile organic compounds in paints, varnishes and car care products to other dangerous substances.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
environmental and consumer protection are given top priority.
the aim of the directive must be to reduce the proportion of solvents in paints and varnishes in emissions across europe in the medium term by means of practical measures.
the european parliament has been asked to give its opinion on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
since 2001, calls for proposals have placed a high priority on the sustainability of projects during the evaluation process.
i must say quite clearly, commissioner, that i thank you for your precise answers and for your serious approach to this important subject, because we are beginning to see a real ecological crisis in this field.
in the bavarian-austrian region in particular, bee colonies have been killed by frost in spring, insecticides and diseases, and we are seeing the ecological impact very clearly, for example in fruit.
i believe that we in europe should finally look at an issue that some may consider a bit bizarre for what it is, namely a health issue and a functioning environment and ecology.
the council had a first discussion of the draft agenda recorded at the general affairs council meeting on 29 september and will return to the subject at its next meeting on 13 october, on the basis of an updated version of the agenda which will also take account of the conclusions of the justice and home affairs and ecofin councils of the past few days and of the transport, telecommunications and energy council of tomorrow.
the recent electricity blackout in italy has reinforced in all of us the awareness of the urgency of completing a truly integrated european energy market and of strengthening security of supply, also in view of the union countries' heavy dependence on energy imports.
the european council will therefore be called upon to provide guidance also with a view to developing a better integration of european networks and new forms of energy cooperation with third countries and in particular with the mediterranean region, in the run-up to the euro-mediterranean ministerial conference on energy, scheduled for early december in rome.
while ensuring the strengthening and full integration of the social dimension in the union's economic and employment policies, it is equally necessary to develop policies aimed at reforming labour markets and addressing the progressive ageing of our population, by reforming social security and pension systems to make them financially sustainable while maintaining a high level of social protection.
it is essential that the member states facilitate our negotiating position in order to reach fair agreements which will help to build the necessary climate of cooperation and trust with the partner countries.
these are the only recipes for sustaining employment in a lasting and sustainable way.
the medina ortega report is parliament's second attempt today, 8 october, to comment on a commission communication of december 2001 on simplifying and improving the regulatory environment.
as the rules on tunnel safety are much more designed for tunnels in the alps and similar areas, and this could lead to significant problems in the inner-city tunnel of the transeuropean transport network with regard to traffic flow, we support the rapporteur's proposal to empower the supervisory authorities to grant exceptions to the general rules for the special tunnels in urban areas, because the minimum distances between trucks of 100 m for example would lead to significant congestion effects in inner-city tunnels, such as the elbe tunnel in hamburg, and thus to greater environmental pollution.
but with a resource like fish, which is finite and sensitive to disturbances, the economic aspect must not obscure the ecological aspect, nor the situation of third countries themselves.
i also believe that it is full of life and better suited to our goal of sustainable fisheries.
i want to see fisheries agreements in the future: modern, partnership-based, sustainable.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
the commission's proposals are already in partial violation of these aspects, and even more so are some of the proposals by the committee on the environment, and we therefore want to vote against them.
it concerns the emissions from construction machinery, excavators, locomotives and inland waterway vessels.
on a construction site on a road in a european city, we have the situation where the excavator, the shovel loader, equipped with the same engine as the truck that removes the rubble, is allowed to emit many times more emissions into the air.
this compromise is in line with what we decided in the committee on the environment.
we want to reduce the emissions of these machines that are not on the road in several stages.
it was only in april of this year that the american epa submitted a proposal which also takes into account our main concern - nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions - and which sets out similar directions as those we have discussed.
we have seen in the united states that, in some truck models, the emissions behaviour in the field was very different from that during the type approval test cycle due to electronic manipulation.
we have agreed that the behaviour beyond the test cycle must not result in infinitely more emissions into the air, but that here too it must be clearly ensured that this is within a reasonable framework in relation to the test cycle.
i am quite sure that reducing emissions in an industrialised area such as europe is more expensive than in other countries.
they are getting cleaner, but the machines are getting more and more numerous, and so our emissions are not as pink as we would like them to be.
we have fought very hard to reduce the emissions of pollutants and pollutants from engines, and now we want to include the still vacant space of equipment and mobile machinery sites.
this then leads to a high level of pollution on the spot and damages human health, in particular through particulate matter and nitrogen oxides.
however, we should be careful here - and, mr rapporteur, we should be a little more careful here - not to be led into the trap of presenting certain techniques for reducing emissions as particularly favourable.
we must not only reduce emissions, but also reduce co2 emissions under the kyoto protocol.
we know that installing filters increases co2 emissions.
let me assure parliament at the outset that, as european commissioner for the environment, i simply do not believe that it makes sense to tow these contaminated ships across the atlantic to the united kingdom.
more generally, and quite apart from this specific case, i am also concerned about the environmental and human health problems related to ship breaking, in particular the implications for non-oecd countries.
we cannot dump this environmental problem on developing countries.
dismantling of ships is often undertaken under operating conditions that, from an environmental, health and safety perspective, cannot be considered sound.
the parties to the basel convention, which deals with the control and management of hazardous waste including old ships, are meeting this week in geneva to discuss this issue among others.
at a time when we are committed to developing an ambitious new european strategy to protect and conserve the marine environment, i do not believe that we should run the risks associated with transporting these ships across the atlantic.
first of all, unlike you, commissioner, i am not opposed in principle to european shipyards, which are in a great crisis, specializing in the scrapping of the two or three or five thousand ships worldwide and then doing so under very high environmental conditions, in stark contrast to what we are unfortunately seeing in india at the moment, where the worst kind of environmental dumping is being practiced and human health is being endangered to a great extent.
we know, of course, that the americans have not signed the basle convention on the export of waste.
the point is that i do not want to give europeans the opportunity to provide such environmental services at a very high level.
in principle, i am not against the shipment of waste for the purpose of recycling.
but, at a time when we have fought so hard to clean up after the prestige and erika accidents, along with other pollution accidents at sea, and when we are struggling to protect the marine environment, i do not see that this is the best way forward, when, apparently, there are recycling facilities in the united states.
i am responding as the environment commissioner.
is this the best thing we can do at a time when we are trying to protect our seas, waters and marine environment?
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents.
the last point i would like to make to the council is this: we spent a great deal of energy together in the negotiations between the first and second readings last november to increase the european parliament's say in the common foreign and security policy.
all the more reason for a social democrat to stress the importance of supporting smes, whether it is the implementation of the charter's lines of action, helping smes to make use of new technologies or improving the financial environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is unworthy of the rapporteur who has put so much energy into this work to have his words shouted in almost empty halls just before midnight.
we have made it quite clear in the 6th environment action programme that parliament is committed to the principle of the multi-track approach for environmental reasons.
we have the experience of the system in germany, which has proved its ecological steering function, namely by reducing the amount of doses that pollute the environment.
if you say that we are not against the can storage system, and we have also clearly stated our support for multiple use in the environmental action programme, i am asking myself why we are not, as has just been said, harmonizing in the european union by saying that we want to strengthen the environment and also multiple use, because it really has an ecological function and, secondly, multiple use - as we know - safeguards jobs.
why then do we not go ahead and make it compulsory throughout the european union to use multiple routes to avoid waste?
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
if you, commissioner, are in favour of the single market, then you have the same task as everyone else of integrating environmental policy.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
the initiative aims to build transport infrastructure, energy and telecommunications networks, and at the same time to increase investment in innovation and research.
the aim is to promote and facilitate the modernisation of social protection systems to cope with the progressive ageing of the european population and to ensure the financial sustainability of pension and social security systems.
as regards iran, we confirmed our attention to the deadline of the end of october, set by the board of governors of the international atomic energy agency, for that country to comply with certain specific guarantees concerning its nuclear programme.
we refer to the dramatic developments in bolivia and the troubled election eve in guatemala, in which we have expressed our concern at the climate of intimidation and violence that is taking place.
the list combines two principles: the desire to produce quick and tangible results and a strong focus on compatibility with the sustainable development goals we have set ourselves.
finally, the quick start list pays great attention to compatibility, as projects are selected on the basis of environmental and economic-financial sustainability criteria.
we must free all the energy we have and use our resources to the full.
i think it is good that we are starting again with the modernization of infrastructure, that we are thinking not only about transport but also about the environment and energy.
but you also managed to not say a word, not a syllable, about environmental policy or sustainability in those 19 minutes and 39 seconds.
i am grateful to mr prodi, who obviously thinks in more complex contexts and has a good memory, because he said very well that the policy of the european union must always be based on the principle of sustainability and he reminded us all of the lisbon process, which i am sure you will remember.
the lisbon process says that the policies of the european union must of course make the european union competitive, but that they must also take ecological and sustainable aspects into account.
you have got the council conclusions to say on industrial policy: all proposed eu legislation should take account of a comprehensive impact assessment of what it means for businesses, and you have suggested, as a good example, that we should start immediately with chemicals policy, which you surprisingly want to be discussed not in the environment council but in the competition council.
mr berlusconi, i ask you therefore: do you know that environmental policy is not something we do just because we are good at it or because we perhaps want to try to be ecological, but because we are also making our industry competitive and because we are also preserving our earth, our immediate environment for our children, and because we are perhaps also preserving our good living conditions?
i asked you, during your last speech here in the european parliament, whether you intended to push the environmental measures of the european union with power and with a little more energy.
i hope that you will give me an answer today on your position on the ecological aspect of your policies and on how you personally intend to draw up an interim and an intermediate balance sheet today, what your ecological concept of success is, and whether you have shown any success so far in terms of environmental policy.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection supports the greek initiative and we have taken up some additional points, most of which were also adopted by the committee responsible.
however, we would have to clarify this, and the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has put forward a proposal which has unfortunately been rejected by the committee responsible, but which we will put to the vote again tomorrow on behalf of the epp group.
this concept must involve all the actors involved: biologists, marine ecosystem researchers, environmentalists, local politicians in the capitals and in brussels, and not least fishermen and the fish processing industry.
we know that co2 emissions from road transport will increase by 31% by 2010 and not decrease by 8% as we agreed in kyoto.
that is why we agreed a co2 strategy six years ago to reduce co2 emissions from transport.
in this respect, the environment committee - and i think the whole parliament - would like to see a framework for tax incentives for low-consumption cars, so that this third pillar of the co2 strategy can also be implemented, and we can really reduce co2 in the transport sector, so that we can meet our kyoto target and control greenhouse gas emissions and global warming.
- the agenda calls for the report (a5-0369/2003) by mr liese, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision amending decision 2002/834/ec establishing a specific research, technological development and demonstration programme: 'integrating and strengthening the european research area' (2002-2006) [com (2003) 390 - c5-0349/2003 - 2003/0151 (cns)) ].
i should like to begin by thanking the rapporteur and all the members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy for the quality of their work.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy has adopted a number of amendments which very much address the issue of embryo and embryonic stem cell research.
i believe, however, that the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has found a good compromise on most of the points, and i therefore support the committee's position on most of the points.
to strengthen research in the eu in a sustainable way, the increase in expenditure must therefore be accompanied by an increase in the efficiency of the use and management of funding and a stronger focus on basic research.
the problem has been that these large projects in transport, telecommunications, energy infrastructure, research and technology have been suffering from a lack of funding.
the aim of harmonization is also to avoid the usual detours and the resulting environmental damage.
the diesel tourism now commonplace is undeniably partly responsible for the damage done to the environment.
secondly, this decision is a step backwards, particularly in environmental policy.
in close cooperation with the european investment bank, we have identified 56 projects in transport networks, energy, telecommunications and research.
secondly, all projects have a strong cross-border impact; finally, we have chosen works that can produce a multiplier effect on investment, especially private investment, and that have a low environmental impact.
we must keep our eyes on our goals: peace, sustainable development, solidarity and freedom.
finally, as regards sustainable growth, the european council will have to take concrete decisions on the growth initiative, in particular with regard to the quick-start programme, and will receive a report from the commission containing proposals for strengthening the productive framework in order to avoid deindustrialisation.
secondly, cohesion will be more explicitly linked to the sustainable growth agenda we are developing on the basis of the experience gained from managing the lisbon and gothenburg processes.
the same can be said - i answer mr frassoni - of the kyoto sustainability speech and of this chapter.
this was also acceptable because the council and parliament jointly stressed the importance of pilot services for safety and environmental protection and the competent authorities can continue to restrict pilot activities to a single provider for reasons of public safety.
so if you want pilots who safely guide ships into our ports to remain committed to safety and the environment, you must reject this outcome of the mediation.
i am convinced that a targeted framework and certain rules must be maintained in the competition of ports, not least for the benefit of workers and our environment.
in this context, mr commissioner, mr president-in-office of the council, i would like to ask the following question: will you actually come back to us in committee and discuss the list of tasks once you have decided how to formulate it in cooperation with the member states, once again with your colleagues from the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy?
for the european union, the summit was an opportunity to reaffirm in moscow its common commitment to meeting the challenges of the day and to addressing in a coherent way the common responsibilities for protecting the environment on the continent, as well as the exchange of information and cooperation to tackle the problems caused by climate change.
the summit supported russia's aspiration to join the wto by the end of 2004, although it was aware of the considerable difficulties on issues such as energy, aviation and insurance which are still on the eu-russia agenda.
the energy dialogue will continue, encouraging progress in reforming the sector in russia, despite russia's difficulties in meeting european demands and wto requirements, in particular with regard to domestic prices and privatisation of the sector.
the european side also stressed the need for russia's early ratification of the kyoto protocol and the expectations for a certain russian commitment to develop more advanced cooperation on maritime environmental safety.
i shall begin with the environmental problems.
it is clear that we need to do more to tackle common challenges together, such as climate change.
we will continue to press for a more sustainable political solution, but it cannot be achieved without full respect for human rights.
we must avoid that initiatives which would be in the interest of both sides, such as the extension of the partnership and cooperation agreement or cooperation in the fight against crime and in environmental matters, fail because of bureaucratic hurdles.
the action plans, which will be the subject of consultations with third countries, will comprise five elements: enhanced political cooperation; the internal market; gha cooperation; communication networks and the environment; measures to facilitate contacts between peoples.
it is not just about the economy, it is about the environment, it is about cooperation in domestic and legal policy to defend ourselves against dangers and threats, and it is also, of course, about the development of political, economic and social reforms in the countries with which we are pursuing this strategy.
in addition, the climate in some regions, especially in the hinterland of zadar, is often hostile to serbs and leads to major problems locally.
these areas include education and culture, the environment and justice and home affairs.
at that time, too, many people said: 'this work is hopeless, it is pointless, what we are doing here is going to waste!
the choice is therefore clearly between these two options: or a divided europe that acts as a spectator on the world political stage, or a united europe that contributes to peace, growth and sustainable development.
above all, fiscal policies need to be more closely linked to the broader objective of increasing growth potential without compromising the long-term sustainability of public finances.
in addition, it should be noted that france and germany embarked on an intensive cycle of welfare reforms in 2003, with a decisive positive impact on the sustainability of public finances.
the origin of the difficulties lies in the fact that germany and france are experiencing serious fiscal problems, which can be summarised as follows: their deficits are excessive, and this is due not only to cyclical circumstances; these high deficits can have perverse effects in the long term because they threaten the sustainability of public finances by causing an increase in debt levels; they also have negative repercussions on potential growth by affecting the expectations of economic agents.
we believe that, among other things, greater emphasis should be placed on sustainability and debt, differentiation between country-specific situations should be allowed, and symmetry should be increased throughout the cycle, with particular rigor in the boom years.
in this respect, we must pay more attention to the quality of public finances without compromising long-term stability or sustainability.
we therefore call for sustainability not only in a prudent fiscal and budgetary policy but also in environmental policy, and all of these go together.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has already made an interesting proposal in its opinion.
as regards the greening of the common agricultural policy, the court concluded that the intensification of agricultural production had led to environmental problems of concern.
the council directive, the environmental criteria - there are many shortcomings that need to be addressed, because the taxpayer rightly expects not only that there will be no fraud, but also that his money will be invested in a meaningful way.
but if the means used then lead to an increase in cotton production and at the same time do not check what the environmental impact is, then i think that is also a wrong use of resources.
we have therefore been looking at the possibility of introducing vat in a liberalized environment, which is what we are all striving for - and i hope that we will have achieved this important task by the end of this decade.
mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the rapporteur, mr manders, for his work on environmental liability.
the common position aims to establish a community framework whereby environmental damage would be prevented or remedied through a system of environmental liability.
the main features of the liability regime itself have not been significantly altered except on one point, which is the very broad discretion that is now available to member states when deciding to remedy or otherwise environmental damage for which no solvent polluter can be held liable.
it cannot therefore support amendment no 45. the scope of the directive is also touched upon in amendments nos 41, 42, 50 and 51 seeking to ensure that the directive should apply in future when environmental damage caused by an incident involving nuclear activities is not remedied on the basis of the relevant international conventions.
it is true that environmental damage will only be covered by this international regime once the new protocol to the paris and brussels conventions, recently negotiated under the auspices of the oecd nuclear energy agency, enters into force.
amendments nos 52, 53, 57 and 58 seek to exclude from the scope of the directive good agricultural and forestry practice, as defined in some agro-environmental regulation.
a total exclusion would be only warranted if the agro-environmental regulation ensured the same level of environmental protection as the liability directive.
finally, on the issue of the extent to which damage should be remedied, there is general agreement that the polluter-pays principle should imply for the liable operator, as for the polluter, payment of all damage caused to the environment.
in addition, there is a clear need to have a common understanding, within the community, of the costs of environmental damage to be borne by the polluter.
in this context, it is important and right to adopt this directive and thus make a good deal of progress in environmental protection.
it is clear that anyone who causes environmental damage in the course of his professional activities must be held accountable.
the adoption of the directive marks a new step in the way of effective environmental protection in europe.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is properly implemented.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the project is not underestimated.
companies that pollute the environment must be held accountable.
i do not think it is right to introduce compulsory insurance for environmental damage as long as reliable reference data are not available.
the directive, which for the first time also makes environmental damage subject to an obligation to compensate, is designed to do just that.
let me conclude with this conclusion for our group: we want to adopt the directive and thus strengthen environmental protection in the european union in a sustainable way.
we owe it to ourselves and to future generations to take care of the environment.
the environment is one of the most precious assets we have been entrusted with.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
this means that whoever caused or was responsible for environmental damage must pay for its removal and bear the burden of proof.
small environmental disasters can bring a community to the brink of ruin.
we will never be able to rule it out completely, but a ruthless liability for environmental damage is a deterrent to potential polluters.
(applause) i would like to thank we must take this very seriously, because the european economy is going through a difficult period, which i fear will become even more difficult, caught as it were in a screw represented, on the one hand, by the united states economy, which is growing rapidly, being supported by an injection of 350 billion dollars decided by the bush administration, an economy supported also by tax rates which are the lowest in the western world and, on the other hand, by the economies of the countries of the far east which are in a situation of almost total anarchy, with no rules being respected either with regard to workers or the environment, nor even a minimum of fiscal control.
the measures adopted by the council include measures to improve our competitiveness and those to promote employment: the commission's proposal is to take the opportunity now offered by the current recovery phase to relaunch the lisbon agenda, which remains the main roadmap for sustainable growth throughout the continent.
it is one group on monetary matters, another on defence matters and another on environmental matters.
there was a heated debate on the subjects of optionality, traders/manufacturers, where amendment no 32 and the statement by commissioner liikanen play a major role, whether we can once again, as the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, declare ourselves ready to reach a conclusion within the second reading by means of an informal trilogue.
i would like to stress once again, particularly as i myself will have the opportunity tomorrow to comment on a separate report, that our committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy is of good will and is happy to do so.
secondly, everyone knows that the present situation - the different compensation systems, the miserable system of travel expenses - is not sustainable.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
representing the rapporteur, mrs kauppi, who is unable to be here today, i reiterate our belief that this harmonisation effort is not justified either from an environmental or from a competition point of view.
we call upon the commission to submit a new proposal and withdraw the current one in order to have a text more in sympathy with the recently adopted energy tax directive.
a satellite-based toll system is also more sustainable because it allows, firstly, to monitor vehicles across borders and across borders if the political will is there.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the agenda calls for the report (a5-0475/2003) by mr costa, on behalf of the european parliament delegation to the conciliation committee, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing an interim points system for heavy goods vehicles transiting through austria for 2004 as part of a sustainable transport policy (pe-cons 3689/2003 - c5-0562/2003 - 2001/0310 (cod)).
i think the debate we are having tonight in the small circle of insiders is about a technology, about the chp technology, which is recognised as an environmental policy instrument.
chp is the simultaneous generation of electricity and heat in a process, which usually leads to energy savings.
cogeneration processes which achieve energy savings of at least 10%.
this is one of the reasons why chp is an instrument for increasing energy efficiency and thus contributes to increasing security of supply.
the purpose of the directive is to promote cogeneration technology which can contribute to increasing energy efficiency and improving security of supply.
combined heat and power is being placed on the european union's energy policy agenda.
secondly, to qualify as a highly efficient cogeneration plant, energy savings of at least 10% must be achieved, as specified in annex iii.
the commission will present harmonised reference values for the calculation of energy savings.
national support and instruments should be geared to primary energy saving.
rather, alternative methods are allowed until 2010. the commission has not excluded from the scope of the directive the use of cogeneration technology based on nuclear energy.
the commission is proposing to harmonize the calculation methods for cogeneration electricity and primary energy savings.
i would like to conclude by calling on the member states to identify and exploit their potential for the expansion of cogeneration as quickly as possible and to remove all obstacles to the increase in the share of cogeneration, and by calling on the commission to adopt as soon as possible a new directive on a european support framework and complete harmonization in the energy market.
we see that there are other powers that are trying to establish a certain dominance in the region for geostrategic and energy reasons.