it is a waste of money when the worst that the eldr group is doing is exposing it.
it identifies some general objectives of access, quality and economic sustainability.
a proposal has just been put forward for an investment package to clean up the way nuclear waste is stored.
the keyword is sustainable aquaculture, focusing on employment, consumers and the environment.
to ensure the health of consumers and the quality of fishery products, and to ensure the ecological balance and the sustainability of the environment.
investment in cleaner production and technology must be encouraged and not hindered by a lack of knowledge of environmental impacts and a widespread application of the precautionary principle.
since many problems in this sector remain, particularly in relation to pollution, we have decided to abstain, although we acknowledge the quality of the work done by the parliamentary committee.
it would be a long-term and sustainable solution.
war is a short-term solution and anything but sustainable.
this decision was made in a climate of international uncertainty, especially when weapons of mass destruction are concerned.
there are many issues where the commission would like to broaden its activities and its co-operation with belarus, be it in addressing common threats of cross-border organised crime and illegal migration, or in regional development, economic and structural reform, environmental protection and so on.
(applause from the centre)
- mr president, in my view it is clearer than ever these days that an international legal system is needed, and it is also becoming increasingly clear that an international legal system must be built that is sustainable and that applies to both large and small countries.
there can be no doubt that the marine environment must be balanced.
- mr president, when the lisbon european council set itself the objective of making the union by 2010 the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, an economy capable of generating sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion, can we ask ourselves what has happened since then?
there are a number of problems and if we do not adjust the budget in the coming years, high priority areas such as the protection of the working environment, social dialogue, internal security, police cooperation and education will suffer.
we will not be able to live up to our political priorities - let me give you an example: many ordinary people fear that enlargement will mean competition from the new member states with companies that are a nuisance in the working environment.
we need to change the culture and raise awareness, both in companies and among employees, of the need for a safe working environment, and we can do this through our agency in bilbao and through the social dialogue, but it requires an adjustment of the budget, not least because the money from the pre-accession aid, the phare programme, is disappearing from the end of this year, so that the effort actually falls if we do nothing.
we need to have credible examples of member states' joint achievements in order to avoid the sustainability of the initiative coming into question, and a proposal being seen as merely wishful thinking.
- (da) we voted today in favour of the report drawn up by mrs van brempt, but we feel it is essential to stress that the use of pesticides can never be considered as a sustainable alternative, even in small quantities.
sustainable use of pesticides, on the other hand, is tantamount to approving the use of poisons.
the point is that legitimate demands on donors, policies to alleviate poverty, environmental concerns, etc., can be at odds with national and local priorities.
the agency for reconstruction has generally done well, but unfortunately there has been a very large fraud case in the energy sector.
i have called on the commission to propose the phasing out of future eu funds for the energy sector in kosovo if the current situation continues.
this communication set out the actions that would be undertaken to address the potential environmental and health impacts of endocrine disruption, in line with the commission's obligation to protect the human health and the environment within the european union.
in addition the task force has defined a set of methods to be developed and validated: a comparison of sensitivity, relevance and reliability of the tests for testing the effects of endocrine disrupters on human health and/or the environment.
the latest estimates are that agreed test methods for some environmental effects are expected from this year to 2005 while some test methods relevant for human health risk assessment are expected to be finalised between this year and 2004. new validated and agreed tests for endocrine disruption will help a clearer identification of endocrine disrupters and allow informed judgements to be made on the likelihood of adverse effects.
as part of the community strategy for endocrine disrupters the commission launched a dedicated call for research proposals in 2001. a total of eur 20 million was allocated to this initiative and, together with further funding under the fifth european research and development framework programme, approximately eur 59 million is currently being spent on research into the potential impact of endocrine-disrupting chemicals on human health and the environment.
the health effects should have been measured last year, and the environmental effects here in 2003-2005. i now understand that the health effects will not be until 2004; it is like a perpetual motion machine with these testing strategies to be developed through oecd systems.
compliance with common environmental standards should be financed from community resources, so that environmental protection in the applicant countries is not degraded or suspended pending better conditions.
there is a complete mismatch, both globally and in the eu, between the investments made in military hardware and our investments in genuinely sustainable security.
it is important that we ensure the free movement of detergents, but i think it is even more important that the detergents we put on the market do not harm the environment or human health and that we as consumers always know what groceries we are buying in the shops.
the eu has forced denmark to use the genetically modified plants without placing any responsibility for the pollution of nature that this entails.
mr president, i think it is very important that we now have a common legislation on environmental liability.
i do not think that the commission's directive is entirely sufficient, but on the other hand, adopting mr manders' report without amendments would be a total undermining of environmental protection in the eu.
we should have a strict or objective responsibility for environmental damage caused by business activity.
as regards the question of damage to biodiversity, i think it is important that we get as broad a definition as possible so that all habitats and species protected by community legislation and corresponding national legislation are actually covered.
finally, i believe that the directive should also cover the pollution of nature by gmos.
i think that we must also cover as much as possible so that citizens really have the opportunity to lodge complaints about environmental pollution, and the same should of course apply to ngos and organisations.
i can understand that some people would like to transfer the legal basis from environmental protection to the internal market in a few years' time.
i think that would be a total mistake and would actually destroy the environmental rules that have already been established in many member states, so i would be very strongly against that and i can say that only with changes in relation to the points i have mentioned here will i be able to vote for mr mander's report.
i am particularly pleased that parliament explicitly recognises environmental agreements as a useful complement to legislative measures.
it is important to satisfy the need for transparency and control on the one hand without, on the other hand, discouraging economic actors from taking up the instrument of environmental agreements by imposing excessive requirements.
the commission proposed general rules on impact assessment in its communication of 5 june 2002. it would not make sense to go beyond the requirements imposed on legislative acts when it comes to environmental agreements.
i also appreciate the suggestion that environmental agreements could be used in the sectors defined in the action plan set out by the johannesburg world summit.
in conclusion i would like to emphasise that i consider parliament's resolution an overall positive signal that will contribute to facilitating the use of environmental agreements under transparent and acceptable conditions.
mr president, i should also like to thank mr sacconi for a really good report which, in my view, sets out very precisely the conditions and requirements for an environmental agreement to become a valid legal instrument.
i would like to say to mrs oomen-ruijten that i think voluntary agreements are important, but it is also important to clarify the conditions that must be met for agreements to be profitable, also in terms of the environment.
i fully agree with what mr de silva said, namely that environmental agreements can only be a supplement in areas where they can be used to bring about environmental improvements, that is to say, provide environmental added value, and that they are not simply used to avoid regulating environmental conditions in an area.
i also think it is important to be fully transparent with the public, with this parliament, with the environmental organisations and with civil society.
there must be transparency in the plans to conclude environmental agreements, but also a high degree of objectivity in the use of environmental agreements in a specific area.
we have also tried environmental agreements in my country, denmark, in some areas, including the pvc area, where there were not enough monitoring and sanction provisions, and it turned out that after the period had passed, absolutely nothing had happened in terms of improving the use of pvc materials.
it is therefore very important that these matters be clarified when environmental agreements are concluded.
this will have a major impact on our competitiveness in the long term - a synthesis report is due in the autumn, to be discussed at the summit in spring 2004. we all agree that the goal is full employment and that this goal cannot be achieved without a fundamentally sound economy, sound public finances, a good investment climate and good competitiveness, which are key elements in creating jobs.
- mr president, the eu's agricultural aid discriminates against the developing countries, the new member states, the environment and ecology.
the large, intensive uses receive the most support, which causes environmental damage and impairment of animal welfare.
equal treatment for conventional and ecological.
- (da) the june movement is opposed to the european union's massive agricultural aid, which discriminates against developing countries, the new member states of the union, the environment and ecology.
- (da) the june movement is opposed to the european union's massive agricultural aid, which discriminates against developing countries, the new member states of the union, the environment and ecology.
- (da) the june movement is opposed to the european union's massive agricultural aid, which discriminates against developing countries, the new member states of the union, the environment and ecology.
- (da) the june movement is opposed to the european union's massive agricultural aid, which discriminates against developing countries, the new member states of the union, the environment and ecology.
- (da) the june movement is opposed to the european union's massive agricultural aid, which discriminates against developing countries, the new member states of the union, the environment and ecology.
- (da) the june movement is opposed to the european union's massive agricultural aid, which discriminates against developing countries, the new member states of the union, the environment and ecology.
- (da) the june movement is opposed to the european union's massive agricultural aid, which discriminates against developing countries, the new member states of the union, the environment and ecology.
- (da) the june movement is opposed to the european union's massive agricultural aid, which discriminates against developing countries, the new member states of the union, the environment and ecology.
in denmark, water supply is consumer-owned and locally managed, and this is a very important prerequisite for ensuring continued source protection and environmental protection.
at the moment the eu is hampering efforts in denmark to protect our groundwater from pollution by lifting a number of the bans on pesticides that we have banned in denmark.
i believe that we in the eu have a clear obligation to promote our own objectives of sustainable development and to live up to our social responsibility, and that means that we must also be able to take into account social and environmental considerations in public procurement.
i would like to say to some of those on the right who have accused us here today of being rabid environmentalists: what is important here is that we will actually create transparency in public procurement, we will create an opportunity for social and environmental provisions to be included in public procurement without, of course, disturbing the internal market.
we are all concerned with the functioning of the internal market, but we simply want to open up the possibility for suppliers to pay attention to other things than price alone, that is to say, to a wider labour market, social conditions and the environment.
there will certainly be a lot of gmo pollution now with long-term compensation lawsuits in the wake.
mrs mcnally is quite right that this is not the time to put new items on the agenda which take neither the developing countries nor the environment into account.
it will stimulate debate on the issues that will further the goal of sustainable development.
we have discussed the dependence of the climate on the energy situation, the emission of co2 and we have talked about the need for more renewable energy.
what was enough, however, was the sun, and we must therefore develop some solar cells, some photovoltaics, so that we can really exploit the sun, which sends so much energy down to the earth.
the fact that we then experienced problems with some power stations that could not operate when it got very hot, we must compensate for by creating a proper, strong high-voltage grid so that we can actually exchange energy between the different regions of europe.
the forest fires we have had do not have any long-term environmental impact, because the trees would probably end up producing co2 in the same way as they did here, but the scale of the accident is quite enormous, as we have all heard and agreed.
- (da) the report calls on the commission not to waste time in the new negotiations on the fisheries agreement between greenland and the european union.
the public sector of the danish water supply is very active in demanding the highest possible levels of protection and in demanding that any sources of pollution be stopped.
the danish islands and the baltic sea area are particularly sensitive to the pollution that can be caused by a single shipwreck.
and last but not least, to include the phasing out of single hull tankers in the considerations for the granting of environmental development aid, so as to put maximum pressure on russia to ban single hull tankers from calling at its ports.
in particular, we see that the budget for the action programme on health and safety at work is being cut back sharply, and i think that is a completely wrong signal to send ahead of enlargement, and i would like to place great emphasis on the fact that we can have the exchange of knowledge and the building up of experience on health and safety at work, so that free competition in the eu does not come at the expense of a good working environment.
it is a matter of national competence how to set up your pension system, but i believe that the report, with its objectives of adequate pensions, sustainable pensions and flexible pension systems, can give rise to a sensible debate at national level and provide inspiration.
one is amendment no 19 on short-term pollution.
it is a proposal which will mean that the authorities can now disregard water samples even if they show pollution and health hazards, if the same authorities simply choose to characterize the pollution as short-lived.
however, i am pleased to note that several of the amendments tabled by the liberal rapporteur, mr maaten, have disappeared during the debate in the committee on the environment.
the rapporteur's report has led to 124 additional amendments from colleagues in the committee on the environment, but the many amendments to mr maatens's proposal also show how a political group can waste the time of a lot of members.
a truth and reconciliation commission would also raise awareness of human rights and provide the basis for peace-building and sustainable reconciliation of the communities of burundi.
i have had good and fruitful meetings with the agency for safety and health at work in bilbao, the racism centre in vienna, the environment agency in copenhagen and, in particular, the vocational training centre in turin.
the environment agency has had several contracts with companies which have also had contracts with eurostat companies which are currently being investigated by the commission's internal audit service for involvement in the eurostat scandal.
that is, it's in all of us, and it affects the environment, it affects our health even in very, very small concentrations.
i have a few comments on the legal basis of the original commission proposal, which recommended both article 95 and article 175. since the stockholm convention itself deals with the environment and public health, the starting point must be the environment, and that is why we have chosen to make sure that article 175, the environmental article, applies.
we have to make sure that we don't produce unintended "pops" through waste incineration.
this means that we in europe must reduce the amount of waste.
there was a problem with the waste, and the joke was that the solution was to pack the waste, send it to the postal terminal, where it would go around in an eternal cycle until the radiation was gone.
- mr president, it is unacceptable that a directive on environmental liability does not cover pollution from the use of genetically modified plants (gmos).
this is pollution by the dispersion of pollen and waste seeds that accumulate in the seed bank.
scholars disagree about how long and how much waste seed can be stored in the earth's seed bank.
nevertheless, gmo pollution is not covered by the proposal for a directive on environmental liability.
herbal medicine should also be seen as an ecological alternative to the many unnatural chemicals we release into nature in the form of chemical medicines.
the group is opposed to this compromise, as it would mean a general deterioration of the environment.
an acceptable balance has been struck between the protection of the environment and the free movement of goods.
if we are to bring the problem of pollution to life, we must think in new and different ways.
however, the thresholds apply only to adventitious traces of authorised gmos that have undergone extensive environmental and health-risk assessment.
the commission has always been of the opinion that thresholds should be feasible and practicable in a gmo environment.
as a general principle, the marketing of products that are authorised under community legislation and found safe for human health and the environment, should not be restricted or impeded by the member states.
this ensures the sovereignty of the member states, while at the same time allowing a grassroots environmental struggle to achieve results across borders.