i believe that this would be the best way of ensuring that the proper maintenance of these facilities is made sustainable, beyond the limitations imposed by the economic and financial profitability objectives which are fundamental to all private enterprise.
and in any case, i think it is necessary to assess at an early stage the effects of liberalisation on safety, social and environmental impact, the impact on the interests of customers and users and on the public service and on the evolution of intermodality, and even its impact on the undertakings concerned within the transport market.
he spoke of sustainable development and environmental protection.
all this is a far cry from the attitude of the united states, which, with the oil pollution act, is preventing accidents, even establishing a liability fund of four billion euros.
the commission takes note of the contribution of the honourable members to the convention's work on the creation of a european coast guard as an effective means of combating the danger of pollution and maintaining maritime safety.
i have the document of 3 december, which i read with great interest, but the transport and environment councils held in the same month and the european council in copenhagen, as far as i am concerned, did not respond in any way to the urgency demanded by the commission.
in this connection, commissioner, i would like to ask you why the commission is not drawing up a law like the oil pollution act in the united states, which will enable it to fight this problem effectively.
– mr president, in the commission of course the impact assessment has a global approach at the moment, because we try to assess business, environmental and social aspects at the same time.
firstly, access to care for all, with the uniqueness of care for the elderly; secondly, a high level of quality; and thirdly, the financial sustainability of the systems.
the risk of prioritising the objective of financial sustainability can devalue and distort those of quality and accessibility, but also, without sustainability, quality and accessibility would only be possible in the short term.
question no 1 by mr ortuondo larrea (h-0833/02) subject: immediate application of the erika i and erika ii directives on 13 november 2002, an accident occurred off the coast of galicia, resulting in the sinking of the oil tanker prestige, which caused an ecological disaster.
having expressed its regret at the disaster caused by the sinking of the oil tanker prestige off the coast of galicia last november, it now wishes to confirm the determination of all member states and the commission to improve their cooperation, generally aiming at the safety of ships and the prevention of pollution caused by them.
on 6 and 9 december, the council adopted measures in the form of council conclusions on both the maritime transport and environmental aspects.
the council is particularly sensitive to the environment and to the pollution caused in these cases, which is very important, and i can assure the honourable member that the greek presidency will proceed with such speed and care that appropriate measures will be taken.
do you think that a catastrophe of this nature, which is already affecting more than one member state, the end of which no one knows, since we still have a sunken vessel with 55 000 tonnes of oil, with consequences that are a real tragedy for areas of the highest ecological value for the whole of the eu, for the whole of european heritage, and with repercussions on everything related to maritime legislation, etc., should be addressed from a european point of view, by creating, even, a temporary committee or a committee of inquiry in this parliament to examine all the points of view and coordinate all forms of struggle, so that such a thing will never happen again?
question no 3 by mr nogueira román (h-0847/02) subject: erika legislative packages and the us oil pollution act 1990 for what reasons, after the erika oil tanker accident and even after the successive accidents off the coast of galicia, including those of the polycomander, aegean sea, urquiola and casón vessels, did the council never include in the initiatives of the erika legislative packages the strict measures imposed on shipowners and vessels in terms of financial guarantees and insurance under the oil pollution act adopted in 1990 by the united states following the exxon valdez accident ?
the objective pursued was - and i stressed this in my previous answer - to achieve a high level of protection of the environment, in particular of habitats and biodiversity.
as already noted, the council recognised in december 2002 that the transport of certain substances by sea still poses significant risks to the marine and coastal environment and to the populations dependent on it.
with regard to the question referred, which refers to the solution provided by the american law, the council draws the honourable member's attention to the proposal submitted last december to examine the possibility of creating a common mechanism whereby oil companies and the shipping companies used by them, shipowners, charterers and insurance companies, will provide the means not only to prevent but also to deal effectively with possible ecological disasters or accidents.
the council also stressed the need to apply properly to maritime transport the precautionary principle, the principle that environmental damage must be remedied at source and the polluter pays principle.
there are different approaches to solving this problem: one is the one the united states adopted in the wake of the exxon valdez accident in 1989 and created the oil pollution act in 1990. i would remind you that the guarantee required from the ship owners is one billion dollars and the liability required is unlimited and that at this moment exxon mobil is being demanded $4 billion in compensation.
the council recalls in particular that on 20 december it adopted unanimously a regulation introducing special measures to provide adequate compensation to spanish fisheries, shellfish farming and aquaculture affected by the oil pollution caused by the prestige.
at its meeting on 19 december 2002, the council adopted the following statement: the council, in view of the serious accident of the oil tanker prestige off the north-west coast of spain, welcomes the measures taken to speed up the adoption of the framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
the council also notes the conclusions of the european council of 12 and 13 december 2002 on maritime safety and pollution of the seas, and welcomes the action taken by the commission to deal with the consequences of the incident and its 'intention to consider whether further specific measures are required', including 'issues relating to liability and related penalties'.
therefore, in full accordance with the measures to be considered under the community's competences in the fields of transport safety and environmental protection, the council should consider taking additional measures to strengthen the protection of the environment, and in particular of the seas, through criminal law.
i would like to see this service put into effect as soon as possible, as well as a pollution accident compensation fund similar to that in the united states.
aquaculture is a very important complement to the extractive fisheries sector, although no one doubts that it is also facing new problems of size, market, environment, health, etc., which must be known and addressed at community level.
at the same time, we must also work to ensure that, as the report itself says, the erika and the prestige are a nightmare of the past and that in the future priority is given to protecting the environment and marine ecosystems in europe's sensitive sea fishing areas, where fish and shellfish species are produced, the ecosystem is maintained and thousands of families are given jobs, which in turn generate other jobs linked to, alternative to and complementary to traditional fisheries management.
and i would like to thank you very much for the speed with which you have incorporated into this report the demand for an ad hoc instrument in the event of ecological disasters - natural or otherwise - such as the one we are currently experiencing in galicia, after the prestige accident, which has particularly affected the aquaculture sector.
it needs community support to achieve excellence in its production, to achieve innovation, to make these enterprises more competitive, to integrate them into a development harmonious with the environment and to promote them to consumers, and also to create jobs in the areas most in need.
the socialist group would like a directive to regulate organic aquaculture which takes into account key factors for this type of farming, such as the use of traditional techniques, environmental factors, temperatures and water availability.
according to the european commission's figures for september, the number of people employed is 80 000. it is worth saying that not everything is good, there are some risks of environmental pollution, of diseases transmitted from farmed fish to wild fish.
that is why, mr president, it is necessary to promote and achieve a healthy environment through care and technological improvements, which is also necessary, by the way, for the development of aquaculture itself.
last july, at the valentín paz andrade forum in a coruña - mr president, valentín paz andrade was a 'good and generous galician' who loved galicia and the sea and who would today be crying over the situation of the galician sea and the sea affected by environmental disasters - it was revealed that the consumption of aquaculture products will double by 2010.
the rapporteur.
but until now, no one has shown that sustainable management of deep-sea fisheries is not possible.
to do this, i think it is essential to adopt an ecosystem-based approach, to strengthen scientific research, to strengthen control and surveillance measures, to reduce bycatch and to be firmly involved in the fight against illegal fishing.
at the same time, we must develop a legal framework for protected areas and thereby broaden our view of the causes of the decline in resources, which is not the result - i repeat - of fishing activity alone, but also - and this is the situation we are currently experiencing - of the discharges from oil tankers such as the prestige, which sink in the richest and most biodiverse part of our coasts, or the discharges from so many others which clean up their bottoms by wildly polluting the sea - today, moreover, with the greatest impunity - without forgetting other causes, such as the profound climate changes we are experiencing at global level or the massive use of substances which inevitably end up in the sea, such as fertilisers and pesticides for agricultural uses.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
it is important for the eu and the united states to pursue their common interests in advancing human rights in the often hostile climate at the commission on human rights.
the peace and future of the democratic republic of congo depend on democratization and sustainable development.
the other aspect of the future of the drc is sustainable development.
the countries and companies of the european union have a leading role to play, at the business level, with a code of ethics committed to sustainable development and, at the state level, with the imposition of limits on the import of goods of dubious origin.
in this respect, we attach great importance to compliance with the rules on child labour, the ilo labour standards and the sustainable exploitation of resources and the oecd guidelines on multinational enterprises.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this is an important part of our overall strategy to reduce air pollution and greenhouse gas emissions.
the phasing-in of sulphur-free fuels shall be completed by 1 january 2009. this will enable manufacturers to exploit the full technological potential to reduce emissions of pollutants such as nitrogen oxides and particulate matter, which pose a major threat to air quality and human health.
the adoption of this directive is indeed good news for the environment and health in europe.
i think it is a good solution and a good compromise, but in any case we must bear in mind that while it will improve air quality, the production of these new fuels will undoubtedly also lead to increases in emissions from refineries.
so if the production and sale of new fuels is not carried out at the same time as the vehicle fleet is renewed, an overall increase in co2 emissions can occur, and also at a great cost, because producing these fuels is much more expensive.
biofuels reduce greenhouse gas emissions significantly and are a good choice for improving air quality.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
because all these measures are fundamental, they are inevitable, they are unavoidable in order to get the least developed countries on the path to sustainable development to end the problem of hunger.
one world, the developed world, which is bent on finding axes of evil, on preparing wars that will bring more desolation, more poverty, and another world waiting for someone to lead an axis of good that will provide it with food, medicine and facilitate fair trade without barriers and basic sustainable internal development for its self-sufficiency.
in the absence of global regulation and adequate domestic policies, these injustices, instabilities and volatilities are reappearing today, deepening inequalities and, in a number of cases, widening the north-south divide, while continuing to threaten the environment.
however, we must give it a global regulatory framework to ensure that this development is more equitable and sustainable than it is in our eyes.
the second is that regulation implies, if we are serious, a convergence of collective preferences on issues such as the environment, health, workers' rights, the place of public services or cultural diversity.
it is the task of organizations such as the international labour organization, fao, the wto and various environmental, health and cultural diversity standards bodies to reconcile freedom of trade with respect for minimum standards.
so developing countries could be pursuing effective, heterodox, catch-up strategies in a number of cases, while we, more advanced economies, could be moving faster along the path of social justice and environmental protection.
in davos, multinational business leaders and ministers concluded that the keys to the new global economic agenda are the real value of companies in the face of volatile stock market prices, trade as a key instrument for sustainable development and the principles that should guide the activities of multinational companies.
the first is to accept that economic, social and environmental sustainability can be a truly shared project, and that sustainability is the true foundation of stability and security.
your committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy can take up this subject under the terms of our institutional agreement.
as far as community agriculture is concerned, it is true that we are now referring to social objectives such as environmental protection, public health, compulsory labelling or the need to compensate for the additional costs of animal welfare.
the service part, the part which is made up of safety, the part which is made up of the environment, the part which is made up of welfare, that part does not circulate and is generally poorly remunerated by market mechanisms.
the european union-chile agreement is also a comprehensive free trade agreement which, according to the very important sustainable impact assessment study carried out by the commission, should generate additional growth for chile’s gdp of about 0.5% and which should contribute to raising the standard of living of the chilean people.
however, the eu-chile partnership will extend well beyond politics and trade: it will intensify our cooperation in a number of areas and stimulate social, economic and environmental development.
the cooperation strategy devised jointly for the period 2000-2006 with the chilean authorities may need to be adapted so as to take into account rather better the recommendations of the sustainable impact assessment study and to accompany the implementation of the agreement.
in the context of market liberalisation, the benefits that economic and trade relations based on reciprocity can bring to economic growth and sustainable development are undeniable, as are the benefits of political dialogue aimed at promoting democracy and developing common responses to the major challenges of the new millennium.
secondly, the agreement states that one of the principles that inspired it is that of sustainable development, while the mapuche land is suffering from blind exploitation of its natural resources: deforestation and construction of dams that flood ancestral lands, as a result of national hydrological plans.
it is the sort of agreement that will not impoverish the world, that will not bring people the 'joys' of north korean economics – which some people endorse – but that should make the world a more prosperous place, that should ensure that we better protect our environment and that we have greater political stability than would otherwise be the case.
we would say that the liberalisation of transport was the strategic and fundamental objective of that white paper: the incorporation of technologies, the cheapening of transport, the increase in competitiveness, an objective achieved, but in that battle, we have lost the battle of sustainability, and i am glad that the commission is the first to speak out and clearly point out the seriousness of this problem, and the fact that we cannot delay decision-making if we want to be operational.
the problem of sustainability in the broad sense, environmental, of course, with the very serious consequences of pollution from transport, which turns into drinking water the savings being made in the rest of the industry in order to adapt to the kyoto commitments, and with the impact, not only on nature in general, but on the health of citizens which, according to some reports, reaches practically a level of severity similar to that of accidental transport.
in addition to the environmental aspect itself, congestion is a concern.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be given the right to vote on the proposals for directives on the environment and the environment policy.
the new member states will be involved in all and more in the research programmes , the environmental and energy programmes, student exchanges and the youth programme.
what lessons can be drawn from this worrying development and what initiatives has the commission taken to promote a better overview of family composition, birth rates, demographic issues, the increasing number of people withdrawn from work for reasons of illness and the sustainability of pension schemes?
the employer must take the responsibility for creating an environment which prevents sexual harassment.
we must also pay tribute to the rapporteur where, in a comprehensive view of the overall economic, social and environmental impact, he calls on the commission to promote best practice for transport reduction through the implementation of new production processes that will diminish the need for transport.
transport is crucial to economic sustainability and internal balance in any community, be it the european union as a whole or a small country like my own.
as long as the various community policies allow for these bottlenecks, we can do little or nothing to achieve cohesive transport and intermodality from a social and environmental perspective.
i am glad to see that this report has not forgotten the users of two-wheelers, who are of great importance in individual transport and in their sustainability in cities, which, thanks to them, are more humane.
this is because, despite the declarations made at the successive lisbon, gothenburg and barcelona councils, there has been no adequate action by the member states, which have committed themselves to a series of reforms, among which the most important are reforms to make the labour market more flexible, to promote an environment favourable to business creation, at a time of lack of growth expectations within the european union.
it is not a favourable environment for business creation, for small and mediumsized enterprises and, above all, for those companies which are embarking on a new path by applying new technologies.
the combination of business creation and the application and development of new technologies is therefore also showing a very significant delay and, of course, despite the successive commitments and solemn declarations, which were repeated in barcelona on the process of liberalization of the sectors which are still protected, in energy and telecommunications we see, once again, that they have not been fulfilled.
mr president, i will not waste a single second - and that is what he is trying to do - defending what we have to defend here: freedom and democracy and an area of freedom, security and justice.
– mr president, let me first thank the rapporteur, mrs redondo, for her report concerning the commission's 'forest focus' proposal for a regulation on monitoring of forests and environmental interactions the proposal aims to contribute to the protection of the community’s forests by means of monitoring.
it builds on the achievements of the two council regulations on the protection of the community's forests against air pollution and fires, which expired at the end of last year.
however, the proposal broadens the scope to include new environmental issues such as biodiversity, climate change, carbon sequestration and soils.
this report looked at both fire protection and air pollution and will now include actions on biodiversity, climate change and carbon sequestration.
actions under the sixth framework programme for environmental action which the european commission and the community are obliged to implement.
it does not seem serious that we want to take the same measures, plus those relating to biodiversity, climate change and carbon sequestration, with such a significant reduction in the budget.
to speak of forests is to speak of one of the most interesting ecological systems on planet earth because of the richness and importance they have for the international community, since they provide protective and productive services.
the european continent, situated in the northern hemisphere of the planet, is part of this general scheme and has coniferous and broadleaf forests of well-differentiated characteristics which reflect the regional biodiversity and the bioclimatic richness of old europe.
the report sets out in general terms the general measures needed to prevent the deterioration of the community's forests due to air pollution and insists on the development of a specific european union policy to combat forest fires, which are one of the factors threatening the survival of forests.
it also specifically recognises the ecological richness of certain european regions, such as the so-called outermost regions, where certain forest ecosystems stand out and are, in some cases, true plant museums of nature, as is the case in my own region, the canary islands, where forest observatories should be set up in these unique forests of these islands of macaronesia, one of the international union for the conservation of nature's (iucn) biogeographical areas with the greatest biodiversity in the european union.
i think that all of us here think that it is really very important to continue to improve and fight for those measures against the factors that contribute to the overall deterioration of the forests of the european union, such as fires and acid rain, to which is now added the commission's proposal, of the fight to improve biodiversity.
the dry, arid climate and accidents - caused either voluntarily or involuntarily - are all aspects of the vulnerability of an ecosystem which is under great pressure and which needs a great deal of support for its conservation.
the amendments which the commission cannot support are: amendments 1, 3, 8 to 11, 14, 21, 31, 35, 40 to 42, 45, 46 and 48 to 49. concerning the discussion about the financial issue of the eur 5 million, the budget line available for the regulations on atmospheric pollution and forest fires also covered the efics.
the proposal is based on the amount of eur 16 million, which constituted the resources available for 2001, when the transfer of responsibilities of the two regulations had been finalised between dgs agriculture and environment.
in this case i was in favour of an amendment by mr davies - which was defeated in the committee on the environment - which proposed authorising and evaluating the voluntary prescription of heroin to addicts so that they can escape the control of traffickers.
this intervention, done together with latin american parliamentarians, could be useful in creating that climate of trust that venezuelans need to function properly.
this directive, with its proposal for opening up the market, is intended to promote a mode of transport which is very positive in its relation to the environment.
so far, maritime transport, except for oil and dangerous goods, has been secondary, but there is a chance that european transport will improve from the point of view of the environment, congestion and safety.
i congratulate you, madam commissioner, on this second directive to promote alternative, renewable and environmentally friendly energy.
i am referring specifically to the environment dg, which has been working since 1998 on the technical specifications for biofuels and captive fleets, as set out in directive 98/70/ec.
it is paradoxical that the environment dg makes proposals to reduce the sulphur content of all types of fuel and does not make the slightest effort to stimulate the marketing of alternative fuels, which significantly reduce emissions and have zero sulphur content.
as for the agriculture dg - what can i say - it has recently presented the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy and it sets out support for energy crops at eur 45 per hectare, which is considerably lower than that for other crops and a more than insufficient maximum guaranteed area of one and a half million hectares for the whole of the european union.
in addition, a permanent 10% threshold is proposed, in which no energy crops can be grown as is being done so far.
it should not be accepted that, in a matter such as this, with benefits for sectors as diverse as emissions, oil substitution or rural development, community policies should be blatantly uncoordinated.
the commission's proposed action plan sets a target of 20% alternative fuels by 2020. some people will think that this is unrealistic, but so did the renewable energy directive that was adopted two years ago.
i therefore ask for parliament's support for the adoption of the report next wednesday and i hope that the council will reach agreement on the energy taxation directive as soon as possible.
the most important of these - perhaps not to be ranked - are health and safety at work, equality and sustainable development.
in concrete terms, we will work with our neighbours to create a single market, promote the free movement of people, goods and services, strengthen cooperation in tackling common threats, strengthen our cooperation in conflict prevention and crisis management, promote human rights, intensify dialogue between cultures and religions, integrate transport, energy and telecommunications networks and create a wider research area: the european union is a great example of the european union's ability to act in a democratic way.
- question no 60 by mrs herranz garcía, substituted by mrs redondo jiménez (h-0109/03): subject: agricultural imports and cap reform the reform of the common agricultural policy (cap), which the commission proposed a few weeks ago, will make community aid strictly subject to rules on food safety, animal welfare, the environment and safety at work.
the aim is to ensure that farmers receive direct payments, comply with binding eu standards on the environment, food safety, animal health, animal welfare and safety at work, and maintain their land in good agricultural condition as part of good agricultural practice.
despite the efforts to secure the future of european farmers and promote important european trade interests, one of the main objectives of the european wto negotiating proposals of january is to ensure that non-trade related issues such as food safety, protection of designations of origin or animal and environmental protection are treated equally in the current round of negotiations.
and we would find that the quality, safety of the products imported and the production methods, both those relating to animal welfare and those guaranteeing quality and the environment, are not subject to any control.
the call for a new industrial policy is made, because man does not live on services alone, and there is also an effort to develop renewable energy sources, which i do not have to stress given the international climate.
the commission is urged to pursue the objectives of the feira charter in the field of small and mediumsized enterprises, to facilitate their creation within 24 hours through new technologies, to advocate tax deferral in the first few years of operation, to simplify their operation, especially in the administrative environment, and to exercise strict supervision of financing in the basle ii negotiations, to strengthen the role of the european investment fund and to establish a network of guarantees to enable them to access markets.
in the field of market liberalization, transposition and, therefore, strengthening the mechanisms for sanctioning non-compliant states, increasing competition in the privatised sectors, liberalizing energy networks and especially their connection.
we welcome the efforts in the field of taxation and call for further efforts to achieve vat at source and a consolidated corporate tax base and we call for the stronger representation of the euro in international forums and a denomination in this currency for energy.
keynesian cyclical stimulus policies should be considered, as well as policies aimed at long-term improvement of the economic fundamentals: energy efficiency, training of people, etc.
secondly, to supplement public social security systems at a time - as has been said here - when the challenge we have to face in the coming years is the demographic challenge, the ageing of the population and the sustainability of public finances.
the council, and in particular the transport, telecommunications and energy council, on 6 december 2002, followed exactly this approach in the conclusions it adopted.
it adopted conclusions on ship safety and pollution prevention following the sinking of the oil tanker prestige off the coast of galicia.
the council also supported the commission's efforts to explore the possibility of drawing up technical cooperation programmes to assist neighbouring countries, in particular the candidate countries, russia and the euro-mediterranean countries, in their efforts to improve maritime safety and pollution prevention and in particular to strengthen the effective application of appropriate port state control procedures.
- mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, as you know, after the exxon valdez oil tanker accident in 1989, the united states enacted a law called the oil pollution act, which was intended to remedy this type of problem drastically.
after all, we live in an age of interdependence: the european union's role is not only to examine its own legislation, but also to ensure that it is promoted at international level so that rules are actually established which will allow both environmental protection and healthy competition between the different regions and countries of the world.
we already have the oil pollution act in the united states, which is going in the right direction.
i would also like to stress that in copenhagen there was a very important decision of the summit council and there was a decision of the council of transport ministers which deals with all this prospect and i do not think there is any member state which would want to block measures which would help to protect the environment.
the problem of illegal immigration is of course complex because it is not just about protecting borders but also about other events, such as the hotbeds of war, the hotbeds of poverty, environmental, political or other crises.
- (es) mr president, on the occasion of the unfortunate prestige accident and its impact on people and the environment, we are considering the possible creation of a community coastguard service to prevent vessels that are not in condition from being able to operate.
the european social fund, in the field of employment, vocational training and promotion, is the only one to achieve this objective through specific programmes aimed at achieving equal opportunities; but other important areas, such as infrastructure, transport, the environment, local and urban development, rural development, research, etc., do not include equality among their objectives.
infrastructures such as childcare centres or day centres for the elderly or disabled can be developed; these are usually tasks which women take on in the family environment and with the right infrastructures we could achieve better integration of women into working life and reconciliation of work and family life, better organisation of working time and reintegration into working life after a long absence, and greater awareness of the equitable distribution of tasks between women and men within the family.
- the report by mr whitehead, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the communication from the commission to the european parliament, the council, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions on the 'consumer policy strategy 2002-2006' (com (2002) 208 - c5-0329/2002 - 2002/2173 (cos)) - the report by mrs patrie, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the implications of the public consumer protection book in the european union for the future of european consumer policy (com (2001) 531 - c5-0295/2002 - 2002/2151 (cos) 545-0054 by mrs thyssen, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, on the legal perspectives of the european union's consumer protection in the light of the 2002 green paper on the internal market (com (2002) 531 - c5-0291 (cos))
mr president, at this moment all over the basque country demonstrations are being held -(the president cut off the speaker)
- (es) madam president, the case of stoning in the northern states of nigeria, based on the application of sharia law by muslim criminal courts, is a flagrant violation of human rights which we must denounce with all our energy, as mrs karamanou has very well done this afternoon on behalf of our european parliament.
i also regret that the spanish government has spent more energy justifying the legitimacy of the use of arms than seeking diplomatic solutions to the conflict.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0061/2003) by mrs van brempt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on a thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides (2002/2277 (ini)).
– mr president, first of all, i would like to thank the european parliament, and in particular the rapporteur mrs van brempt, for the work that has gone into this report in reaction to the commission’s communication 'towards a thematic strategy on the sustainable use of pesticides'.
the sixth environment action programme introduced the new concept of thematic strategies and requires the commission to develop them in close consultation with all relevant parties.
only these are also specifically referred to in the sixth environment action programme.
i would like to underline once more that there is no direct link between the quantities of pesticides used and the risks they can pose to health and environment.
in fact, there are cases where substances are much more active and can be used at lower volumes, but because of their higher activity they pose higher risks to the environment.
i am confident that i can count on the parliament’s continued support in our efforts to further improve the sustainable use of pesticides in the eu.
- (es) mr president, commissioner, the thematic strategy for the sustainable use of pesticides presented by the commission and which the commissioner has just outlined is undoubtedly a programmatic statement of the actions which the commission intends to take in the near future, either by means of its own provisions or by means of legislative proposals to the european parliament and the council of ministers of the european union.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the pesticides are used in a safe manner and that they are not used in a way that is harmful to the environment.
naturism is often confused with environmental protection.
oil, strychnine, hemlock and even anthrax are natural, but unacceptable if they are spilled into the environment.
a5-0027/2003 by mr caudron, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on the participation of the community in a research and development programme to develop new clinical interventions to combat hiv/aids, malaria and tuberculosis through a long-term partnership between europe and developing countries, undertaken by several member states and norway (com (2002) 474 - c5-0392/2002 - 2002/0211 (cod))
(es) mr president, i too would naturally like to congratulate the rapporteur, mr caudron, who has done an excellent job of improving the commission's proposal, which is also a very important proposal and which opens up, on a pilot basis, what could be a new relationship between the european union and the third world countries on issues of shared global concern.
- (es) the increasingly open and competitive economic environment in which businesses must operate and the need to encourage economic growth capable of guaranteeing the maintenance of employment and the social well-being of our citizens fully justify the strategy and the agreements adopted at the european council to give new impetus to this strategy.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports: - a5-0072/2003 by mr sørensen, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the granting of discharge to the commission in respect of the implementation of the budget for the sixth, seventh and eighth european development funds for the financial year 2001 (com (2002) 211 - c5-0190/2002 - 2002/2087 (dec)) - a5-0109/2003 by mr casaca, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2001 (commission) (sec{2002) 403 - c5-0239/2002 - 2002/2101{dec}); - a5-0101/2003 by mrs avilés perea, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2001: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to cover the following areas: the protection of the environment, the protection of the health and the environment, the protection of the environment against pollution, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of chemicals, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances, the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances, and the protection of the environment against the risks arising from the use of certain substances.
- a5-0082/2003 by mr staes, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the general budget of the european union for the financial year 2001 (section i - european parliament) (sec{2002) 405 - c5-0242/2002 - 2002/2102 (dec)); - a5-0079/2003 by mr blak, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge to the european centre for the development of vocational training for the financial year 2001 (c5-0601/2002 - 2002/2186 (dec)) 2. on discharge to the european foundation for the improvement of living and working conditions for the financial year 2001 (c5-0597/2002 - 2002/2187 (dec)) 3. on discharge to the european agency for reconstruction for the financial year 2001 (c5-0596/2002-2002/2188 (dec)) - a5-0068/2003 by mrs langenhagen, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on discharge in respect of the implementation of the budget of the european coal and steel community (ecsc) for the financial year 2001 (c5-0556/2002 - 2002/2185 (dec)); - a5-0074/2003 by mr blak, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on the postponement of the discharge decision to be given to: - the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2001 (c5-0102/2003 - 2003/2046 (dec)) - the european environment agency for the financial year 2001 (c5-0098/2003 - 2003/2044 (dec)) - the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2001 (c5-0100/2003 - 2003/2045 (dec)) - the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2001 (c5-0096/2003 - 2003/2043 (dec)) - the european monitoring centre on racism and xenophobia for the financial year 2001 (c5-0094/2003 - 2003/2042 (dec))
the rapporteur.
we also note the resolution of all the real estate problems concerning the palais and the whole building environment where the court of justice is located.
(applause from the centre)
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
on the one hand, we welcome the efforts made by the commission during 2001 to integrate the gender equality aspect into union policies, particularly in new areas such as international trade, public procurement, asylum policy and the environment.
on the other hand, i would also point out the caution with regard to the configuration of the executive agencies, the need to limit the under-utilisation of appropriations, especially in the field of the structural funds, and the achievement of the objectives of the sapard programme, especially in its positive aspect of creating administrative support structures in the countries of immediate integration into our environment.
does the commission not consider that the above measure is likely to jeopardize the fragile economic, social and ecological progress made by costa rica in a sector of activity concentrated in the less favoured regions of the country, often affected by natural disasters, and which provides employment mainly to women, heads of households and immigrants from nicaragua?
in its communication com/2001/0262 final, the commission emphasises that 'recognised test methods/strategies for the identification and assessment of endocrine disruptors are absolutely necessary if comprehensive legislative action is to be taken to protect humans and the environment from the potential hazards of these chemicals'.
at the time, the commission expected that recognised test methods would be available in 2002 for human health, but that for environmental effects, tests would not be developed until 2003-2005. in this context, could the commission report on the results of the eepe's work and at the same time confirm that endocrine disruptors will be treated in the new chemicals legislation on the same footing as other dangerous substances?
the response centre also coordinated the assistance offered to the three countries, it sent a group of community experts immediately following the accident and has offered to co-finance, with spain, an environmental study on the consequences of the accident.
you mentioned that there is a european union response centre, and i would like to know whether you have emergency plans in place there, particularly for sensitive coastal areas such as galicia and brittany, where oil accidents are repeated year after year, causing damage to the environment.
how can this meeting influence the commission's approach to the various concerns raised by the spanish national hydrological plan and its environmental consequences in spain?
– on 24 march i had a short meeting with the new spanish minister of the environment, mrs elvira rodríguez, during which we touched on a number of issues, including the spanish national hydrological plan, and in particular the proposed ebro transfer.
both the minister and i recognised that there are a number of fundamental environmental issues where expert opinion remains deeply divided.
as commissioner for the environment i am particularly interested in the projected future flow rates in the ebro river, as well as the definition of the flow regime necessary to protect the ecological and chemical status of the lower ebro and the ebro delta.
i suggested that the environment institute at the commission's joint research centre site in ispra might be a suitable location for such a meeting.
on the second point, which also concerns the environment and the spanish state, i ask what is the amount envisaged by the commission for financing the galicia plan drawn up by the spanish government to recover the galician coast and develop galicia following the prestige accident, also for the period 2000-2006, given that the spanish government considers that a total financing of eur 12 billion is necessary for that period?
– i am happy to give a general answer to that question, which is that the use of community funding will have to be in compliance with environmental legislation too.
the funding will be tested against existing environmental legislation.
it will address a number of the environmental issues associated with the proposed ebro transfer.
this is another attempt to ensure that we have all the information that we can get, especially on these, the most crucial environmental issues in this plan.
and we believe that in this world concert the union should act with a common voice which would allow it to be perceived as a commercial, economic and social power and even as the great defender of human rights, multiculturalism and the environment.
question no 8 by carlos carnero gonzález (h-0186/03) subject: the new version of the baker plan for western sahara: the commission has not yet adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
- question no 17 by mr pimenta
- question no 18 by brian crowley (h-0164/03):on: alternative energy research and development funddoes the council not think that, in view of the high oil price on world markets, it is now time to set up a european alternative energy research and development fund with ample appropriations and, if so, will it invite the commission to submit the necessary proposals to this effect for the 2004 budget and subsequent budgets?
council the honourable member is reminded of article 163 (3) of the treaty, which states that: all community actions under this treaty in the field of research and technological development, including demonstration projects, shall be decided upon and implemented in accordance with the provisions of title 18 concerning research and technological development, and in particular the multiannual framework programme referred to in article 166. research and development in the field of alternative energy is therefore carried out and financed under the framework programme.
the current framework programme was established by decision 1513/2002 for the sixth framework programme of the european community for research, technological development and demonstration activities, with a view to contributing to the creation of the european research area and to innovation, and covers the period 2002-2006. the framework programme, under the priority theme 'sustainable development, planetary change and ecosystems', provides funding for research and development of sustainable energy systems in the following areas: clean energy, and in particular renewable energy sources and their integration into the energy system, including storage, distribution and use; energy saving and energy efficiency, including through the use of renewable raw materials; alternative fuel engines; electric fuel cells and their applications; new technologies for energy transmission and storage on a european scale, and in particular hydrogen technology; advanced and intensive research on renewable energy technologies linked to the significant long-term potential of clean coal-fired power plants, which requires a more ambitious energy future.
it is also recalled that the 6th framework programme of the european atomic energy community, again for 2002-06, has an indicative budget of eur 750 million for research on controlled thermonuclear fusion, which could contribute to long-term energy supply and thus to the requirements of sustainable development for reliable central baseload electricity generation.
the council, in agreement with the european parliament, has therefore, i believe, allocated substantial resources to research into alternative and renewable energy sources, as well as energy saving and efficiency.
but i would also point out to the honourable member that the us government's expenditure on alternative energy sources should not be compared with the european union's expenditure on the same purpose.
it is well known and widely agreed that alternative energy sources must be promoted in order to deal with the problems of pollution and other pressures on the environment.
council taking into account the impact of population ageing on labour markets and its potential impact on growth and the sustainability of social protection systems, member states agreed in stockholm to increase the employment rate of older workers to 50% by 2010. the barcelona european council called for a further progressive increase of around 5 years in the effective average age of retirement from the labour market by 2010. according to the 2002 joint employment report, all member states consider older workers to be the most important source of labour force and efforts have been made either to discourage early retirement or to provide incentives for longer stays on the labour market, while creating a framework to facilitate a gradual exit from economic activity, combining both approaches.
(the sitting was suspended at 6.55 p.m. and resumed at 9.00 p.m.)
- the next item is the report (a5-0103/2003) by mr liese, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the establishment of standards of quality and safety for the donation, procurement, testing, processing, storage and distribution of human tissues and cells (com (2002) 319 - c5-0302/2002 - 2002/0128 (cod)).
the next item is the report (a5-0102/2003) by mr evans, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the conciliation committee's joint proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on animal health conditions for the non-commercial transport of pet animals (pe-cons 3610/2003 - c5-0061/2003 - 2000/0221 (cod)).
however, it will be difficult to convince them that they have no reason to act as they do, because the climate of virtual war in which cuba has lived for many years has suddenly become a climate of real war.
udalbitza has enhanced the national construction of our country, favouring local representatives' joint action in fields such as culture, the environment, social welfare, economic development, land organisation, sports and, of course, the promotion of the basque language.
- (es) i would like to thank the honourable members for their comments and say that what we really need to do is to avoid the 'stupid' energy to which mrs mcnally and other speakers have referred earlier.
i am thinking, for example, of the coopener programme, where we are also talking about the dissemination in developing countries of the most appropriate technologies, energy efficiency, technological development, clean coal technologies, and one day we will have to talk about this again when we talk about kyoto, because kyoto does not only affect europe, but it is a world problem.
- the next item is the report (a5-0138/2003) by mr glante, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the promotion of cogeneration based on useful heat demand in the internal energy market.
the debate in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has also revealed the diversity of positions, as have the meetings, hearings and seminars held in the past few months in this parliament, which demonstrate the interest that this initiative has aroused in various sectors of society.
i am pleased to say that i think the proposal for a directive on the promotion of cogeneration, which we are discussing, is up to the task and is also a response at a time when we are talking about the integration of the european energy market and, in particular, the electricity market.
as the rapporteur has pointed out, cogeneration can be an efficient way of producing heat and electricity together in a single process, and its correct and appropriate use increases the security of supply, brings undeniable energy savings and the consequent reduction of greenhouse gas emissions.
but we know that it faces problems in the energy market, because its advantages are not reflected in the same way in this sector.
no legal instrument solves this problem and the directive creates the necessary framework to ensure a stable environment for initiatives to promote cogeneration.
moreover, as a result of the future directive, power and cogeneration producers will be able to apply for a guarantee of origin which shows that the electricity sold to the grid actually comes from high-efficiency cogeneration, from cogeneration which generates overall energy savings.
it provides a tool for states to develop support programmes that can promote cogeneration while avoiding distortions in the internal energy market and even distortions in competition more generally.
i hope, together with the rapporteur, that we will be able, during this parliamentary term, to adopt this text at second reading, which i believe is extremely important in order to complete all the actions we are taking to strengthen energy efficiency and energy saving and to promote renewable energies, as we have been doing over the years.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
(es) mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this is a directive which has involved complicated, long and heated debates, particularly in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
we have tried to stress that cogeneration is not an end in itself but a measure of energy efficiency and that this proposal, which continues the commission's strategy of increasing energy efficiency in the european union, was welcomed but at the same time presented a number of problems, as originally put forward by its rapporteur, mr glante.
we have then seen how, through close dialogue and debate between several members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, we have put forward a balanced proposal which is really important from the point of view of energy savings.
as i said earlier, demand-side cogeneration will therefore make it possible to optimise greenhouse gas emissions and to balance the operation of the electricity system.
well, for the simple reason that electricity is a more elaborate form of energy that is obtained from heat.
we are left with - as i think mr vidal-quadras will also point out - savings in primary energy and, consequently, savings in gas emissions.
however, as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, i have to say that this was not the case in this committee and that the opinion adopted in the committee, in the light of what is proposed today, after the debates and the meetings that have taken place, lacks realism and rigor.
i have asked for this proposal to be seriously discussed and for more time to be given to discuss our different views with the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
it is not possible to draw up an opinion as was done in this case with the opinion of the committee on the environment on cogeneration, which i am afraid is not an isolated case but is rather a relatively frequent occurrence in parliament.
production by the cogeneration method allows, firstly, energy savings and thus achieves an environmental protection objective, as it reduces co2 production.
the three main points we have achieved, mr president, through this long discussion, have been, firstly, to put primary energy saving at the centre of the directive as an essential parameter of the definition; secondly, to calculate the percentage of energy saving in relation to electricity produced and not in relation to the total of heat plus electricity, in order to put the emphasis where the energy saving occurs; and, finally, we have clearly distinguished between two situations: that of installations which work permanently by simultaneously producing heat and electricity and that of installations which, for reasons of their operation and the purposes they pursue, produce electricity and heat simultaneously only part of the year, and the other part of the year work exclusively in a condensing mode.
these three points, mr president, were essential to achieving the purpose of this directive, which was to define cogeneration in a good way, which will then enable us to define a good system for stimulating this form of energy production, which will translate into what we all want: primary energy savings, reduction of co2 emissions and improvement of the union's independence from external energy sources.
if that is so, then you, commissioner, have an energy policy for the union in mind and, as you continue to develop it, this parliament will support it, because it fulfils the objectives we all seek: improving our competitiveness, guaranteeing the well-being of all europeans and better economic growth.
what we are doing is to propose, over the years, greater energy efficiency, better energy saving and use, and all this in the service of sustainable development, which means not only ensuring competitiveness and quality of service for users, but also respecting the environment.
but i think all honourable members will agree that what we cannot do, under the guise of 'cogeneration', is to allow a system to be created which ultimately consumes more energy than would be consumed separately in the whole process and also benefits from subsidies which are ultimately paid for by the users, the taxpayer - there are various possibilities - or simply the customers of the network, causing not only poor energy use, higher energy consumption but also distortions of competition and a lack of competitiveness of the whole system which i do not think benefits anyone.
i am referring to the amendments replacing the term 'useful heat' with 'useable heat energy' and to the deletion of the term 'high efficiency' associated with certain types of cogeneration where specific quantifiable savings are achieved.
cogeneration must be based on a real and justified demand for energy and we must insist on high efficiency as a guarantee of energy savings.
in this sense, in order to arrive at targets for each member state, we would have to carry out an analysis, as we did in the case of 'green energy', where a country-by-country assessment was made of the renewable energy potential available to the various countries for electricity production.
these amendments cannot be accepted, because we must ensure that producers of cogeneration energy have equal access to the electricity grid, without any discrimination to their detriment, but we must ensure the distribution and transmission of production wherever necessary and under conditions for the exchange of electricity which are equitable.
we could not accept an amendment which would require us to submit a proposal for a directive on the promotion of energy from cogeneration after a certain number of years.
i understand and support the intentions expressed on the need for specific measures for micro-generation, although some amendments cannot be accepted - i am thinking of amendments nos 38 and 41 - but i would also like to express my agreement with the european parliament on the need to seek from the outset the maximum harmonisation of calculation principles and primary energy savings.
i would like to thank the honourable members once again for the work done and to acknowledge the complexity of the matter, but i would stress that this is one of the elements which can enable us to significantly increase energy efficiency and therefore energy saving, which is one of our priority objectives from the point of view of energy policy and security of supply.
the commission has also proposed that the council adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
and in the face of this timid directive, the group of the european people's party, taking advantage of its temporary majority in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, has introduced even more restrictions, virtually preventing environmental liability from being demanded from those who cause damage.
with regard to article 9, which deals with exceptions, i do not think that every exception or authorization is justified by pollution.
this exemption also excludes only damage caused by emissions or acts that comply with the permitted parameters, and the ippc directive's principle of integrated pollution prevention and control should be recalled.
given the fear in some countries that insurance companies will not be able to take on this responsibility, the 'step by step' approach, taking things one step at a time, would certainly ensure financial security and the possibility of insuring environmental damage.
as the author has experienced firsthand, widespread and profound damage has been inflicted on all greenhouse production, especially pineapples in são miguel.
subject: oil spills in gibraltar for years, ship refuelling, loading and unloading operations in the vicinity of gibraltar have been causing oil spills at sea, with serious consequences for the environment and the economy of the neighbouring spanish territory, where economic activity is mainly based on the fishing and tourism sectors.
these discharges, which are harmful to the landscape for citizens, also have serious economic consequences and cause incalculable damage to the environment by making it impossible for a long time to carry out any normal activity in the polluted area.
in the face of this type of disaster, and in the light of the commission communication to the european parliament and the council on enhancing maritime safety following the sinking of the oil tanker prestige (com/2002/0681 final), when will the commission present a study on the appropriateness of revising existing legislation and existing mechanisms for environmental protection in order to minimise the risk of accidents and the damage that this entails?
finally, i would point out that the commission sent the european parliament and the council on 5 march a proposal for a directive on pollution from ships and the introduction of penalties, including criminal penalties, for pollution offences.
this proposal concerns illegal, accidental or voluntary discharges - because there are also voluntary discharges: the cleaning of bottoms and bilges, to which the honourable member refers - by establishing responsibilities throughout the chain from shipowners, charterers, classification societies, etc., which will make it possible to close the gaps in community law on deliberate or accidental pollution by ships and which will oblige the union states to adopt the relevant legislation.
(es) madam commissioner, i can rather express my satisfaction with all these complementary measures, because really the preservation of the environment and the avoidance of risks in the field of trade in hydrocarbons is a process of many complementary measures being taken.
and also, to what extent does the commission's directorate-general for the environment - which i do not know if it can answer me at this moment - join this series of measures to make it really a cross-cutting guarantee operation, where environmental responsibility for these problems is included?
if, for example, we are talking about cleaning up sewers, we can demand that there be no discharges into the sea because we have adopted - and this parliament supported us in this proposal - a directive which imposes an obligation on all the member states of the union to establish, in all ports of a certain level in the union, the facilities necessary to be able to clean up the seabed and sewers in ports, without having to resort to cleaning them up at sea, which has been the usual practice over the years and which is the cause of more than 90% of the pollution by hydrocarbons that occurs year after year.
the pollution of the seabed is not caused by major catastrophes, like erika, prestige, amoko cadiz or the aegean sea.
of course the commissioner for the environment fully shares the measures we have proposed, although we are setting a specific rate for the oil and oil pollution sector.
a specific type which has to do with the fact that the fipol fund provides specific and differentiated cover and insurance for oil pollution - which other types of potential polluters lack - and furthermore, in the field of criminal sanctions, we also understand that oil pollution and cleaning of sewers has a component which calls for a specific type of sanctions or which, at least, may require that at best other types of environmental crimes are not raised as such a crime, with criminal sanction in some countries.
but in this case, where there is clearly a voluntary nature and very serious effects on the surrounding populations and the marine environment, it is logical to demand that this type of action, which is absolutely unacceptable, be criminalised.
the commission (es) we are talking about proposing that the member states of the union, and this is what i have put to the council and parliament, should make marine pollution by dumping, including by cleaning up the bottom, a criminal offence, with penalties of deprivation of liberty, when it occurs - as the honourable member says - deliberately on the high seas.
this proposal is based on a global view of the location of the new europe in its environment, but on a differentiated approach for each country and without affecting the european aspirations of any of these countries.
this partnership shall focus on the objective of reducing and eventually eradicating poverty, consistent with the objectives of sustainable development and the gradual integration of the acp countries into the world economy.
these are: the link between trade and development, regional integration and cooperation, support for macroeconomic policies, promotion of equal access to social services, transport, food security, sustainable rural development and, finally, the creation of institutional infrastructure.
first, in the current volatile international political climate it is even more important to make substantive progress on trade issues.
the council reiterated that the objectives of the european union's policy towards cuba remain to encourage a process of transition to pluralistic democracy and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms, sustainable economic recovery and an improvement in the living standards of the population.
the experience of the last few decades in the field of development cooperation and the lack of substantial results in this area have highlighted the need for a change in approach to development policies, to improve the effectiveness of aid, to reduce the gap between rich and poor countries and thus to achieve the sustainable development objectives we have set ourselves.
it is therefore not surprising that the idea of capacity building as an indispensable factor in improving the outcomes of development policies has been gaining ground, particularly since the rio declaration of 1992, which recognises that a country's ability to pursue sustainable development is largely determined by the capacity of its people and institutions.
a development cooperation policy that is oriented in this direction is the most appropriate instrument for advancing on the path towards poverty eradication and the achievement of sustainable and equitable development for all.
- the agenda calls for joint discussion of the commission's statement on competition policy on decommissioning funds and - 4 recommendations for second reading: - a5-0136/2003 by mr turmes, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for the internal market in electricity and repealing directive 96/92/ec (15528/2/2002 - c5-0034/2003 - 2001/0077 (cod)); - a5-0135/2003 by mr rapkay, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for the internal market in natural gas and repealing directive 98/30/ec (15531/2/2002 - c5-0035/2003 - 2001/0077 (cod)); - a5-0134/2003 by mr mombaur, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on conditions for access to the network for crossborder exchanges in electricity (15527/2/2002 - c5-0036/2003 - 2001/0078 (cod)) - a5-0132/2003 by mr clegg, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a decision of the european parliament and of the council establishing a set of guidelines for transeuropean energy networks and repealing decision no 1254/96/ec (15767/2/2002 - c5-0033/2003 - 2001/0311 (cod)).
this gives the public the impression that the commission operates with watertight compartments; double hull, yes, therefore, but only if the requirements and quality of the refurbished ships meet european quality standards in their construction, environmental standards, social and quality standards.
the other day at the euro-mediterranean meeting of energy ministers the question of the double-hatch, port controls, maritime safety was raised and there was support for this issue.
the freedom of the seas cannot be translated into a freedom simply to circulate with no controls and with genuine ecological bombs.
this reality implies the need to manage globalisation through multilateral rules drawn up from the perspective of policy to make global trade relations a force for good for all, contributing to the goal of poverty eradication and sustainable and equitable development.
the lisbon european council set a strategic objective for the european union: to become the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the market, capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
climate change, prolonged droughts, and the significant pressures on wetlands, on those protected areas that are exercised by the urban sector or the administrations themselves, are putting these traditional areas of cultivation, a haven of biodiversity, at risk.
the common organization of the market in rice needs to be reformed to adapt it to the new conditions of market competitiveness, but ensuring a decent income for producers and in a way compatible with fair trade for the benefit of the least developed countries, preserving the crop with an important role for the european union in the social, environmental and landscape fields.
in this context, many amendments in the report refer to the need to establish adequate control mechanisms to prevent possible irregularities, and to guarantee the origin of imported rice, in order to avoid social and environmental dumping, as well as social phenomena such as triangulation, and with rigorous traceability and labelling to ensure food safety.
mr president, i have reservations as to whether the decoupled payment proposed by the commission is aware of the environmental specificities of the crop and whether abandoning the crop would not increase the environmental vulnerability of these areas.
let me ask you once again to change the criteria for allocating decoupled aid; to use multifunctional criteria to establish a true multifunctional aid per holding; agricultural multifunctionalism means that agriculture contributes to the maintenance of the rural population, creating jobs, preserving the environment, avoiding depopulation and desertification of our territory.
i ask you to be a little more rebellious, a little more determined, if you really believe that rural development must be strengthened in order to produce a more sustainable and fairer cap.
ladies and gentlemen, in the context of community rural development policy, various measures have been proposed to respond better to society's concerns regarding environmental protection, compliance with community standards in agriculture, improvement of animal welfare and higher food quality standards.
the common denominator behind the consensus is certainly the guiding principle of a multifunctional sustainable agriculture, the preservation of which is of great concern to us all.
the common agricultural policy must be consistently geared to economic, social and environmental objectives in order to claim sustainability.
the social function of agriculture, the general economic environment, the stability of international trade relations, the preservation of the environment, the care of valuable cultural landscapes and, above all, the provision of high-quality, safe food - these are all the challenges that need to be met in the interests of farmers and all other citizens in europe.
we must not ignore the expectations of today's society and we must make direct payments subject to criteria of environmental protection, animal welfare, food safety and plant safety.
as regards dried fodder, in order to understand the commission's position better, i would like to recall the strong criticism of this scheme in independent studies and in the court of auditors' report, because of its negative effects on the environment.
the amendments proposed to make the aid scheme more geared to the promotion of technical progress, in particular to reduce energy consumption, are certainly interesting.
in view of the social, economic and ecological importance of the rice sector, i do not wish to question the need for a rice market regulation.
this concerns the budgetary resources made available, the focus on the sustainability objective and the payment to farmers for the provision of social services.
the commission's proposals on the reduction of aid and on the reforms of the common market organisations will require increased competitiveness, but this can only be translated into more intensive production which will accentuate food risks and environmental impact.
in areas with lower yields, along with agricultural activity, the economic activities linked to it would disappear, creating unprecedented problems in the economic, social, environmental and land-use planning spheres.
we cannot try to discourage farmers by dismantling frontiers, by requiring them to produce food of a high standard of quality and food safety, by taking care of the environment and by keeping the rural fabric alive, without compensating them properly for this.
in my speech, mr president, commissioner, i want to advocate a reform of the cap which does not forget again those regions of the union which have climatic and environmental conditions and agricultural traditions particularly suited to multifunctional rural development, which have small and medium-sized family farms based on land and pastures, which have a large capacity for milk production and which, lacking the necessary milk quota since their entry into the community, have undergone malthusian modernisation, which has led to the disappearance of tens of thousands of farms.
these include, for example, the concentration of the cross-compliance scheme on the most important rules with a view to improving administrative manageability, a gradual increase in the share of cross-compliance funds remaining in the member states, a longer preparation period for the installation of the farm advisory system with an initial voluntary participation which is to be converted into an obligation only later, more flexibility for member states as regards the payment of advances on direct payments, a flexible treatment of hardship and problems in the calculation and payment of the single farm premium, the option for member states to exclude certain fruit species from the eligible areas, the possibility to increase the number of farms growing raw materials on these areas with the possibility of rotation, the introduction of a flexible method of financing measures for the management of milk production in order to reduce the environmental impact of the agricultural sector and the reduction of the environmental impact of the milk levy.
the other thing is respect for the multicultural, the cultural diversity in our society, and i think that in some areas, the languages spoken by immigrants are also part of that cultural environment.
for over a decade, scientists have been calling for the use of fishing effort to be included in a sustainable conservation policy.
we want a genuine sustainable fisheries policy, responsible fishing, with all the necessary measures, including a ban on fishing.
the whole bay of biscay fishing fleet has this week remained in harbour because of the significant reduction in overall fishing possibilities due to the pollution caused by the wreck of the prestige.
those of us who vote against amendment no 20 tomorrow want, mr president, the sustainability of fisheries resources, but also equality for all countries, non-discrimination for all, and we want europe.
could the council explain what the role of the negotiations developed by the eu and officials of the iranian regime under the 'constructive energy dialogue' regarding this iranian nuclear programme has been?
the climate and the discussions we had contributed to our being able to discuss developments which may be of particular importance.
in all countries, the rate is increasing every year; economic, environmental and even cultural factors have a great influence on these figures; breast cancer affects women of higher social class to a greater extent.
- the next item is the report (a5-0156/2003) by mr schnellhardt, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council laying down specific rules for the organisation of official controls on products of animal origin intended for human consumption (com (2002) 377 - c5-0340/2002 - 2002/0141 (cod)).
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
as regards the use of company staff to carry out certain control tasks, the commission welcomes the agreement with the environment committee.
the commission cannot accept amendments nos 127, 135, 136, 139 and 140 because they are not in line with the line of the committee on the environment, nor with the commission's line and the principles of european legislation on animal feed.
i would say that the commission really has a problem with the environment committee's proposal to abolish this mandate.
we know that the climate is deteriorating, that political violence is increasing, that human rights violations, the disregard for the rule of law and the worsening of human suffering are on the increase.
we have before us the possibility of bringing this process to an end, and they know that the end would be defined by the existence of two states, two states that could live together, in peace, that could live in a regional environment, with which all the other countries in the region could establish diplomatic and other relations.
you know, ladies and gentlemen, that at this very moment the international energy agency, through its director-general, mr elbaradei, who is known to many of us, has made public some clear statements on iran's behaviour and on what behaviour should be more in line with the resources and suggestions of the international energy agency.
furthermore, our iranian friends, they should not ask for anything in return, signing the additional protocol is something that goes in the direction of what countries like iran, countries like those that make up the european union want; a world where there is no proliferation of weapons of mass destruction and a world where energy is used for peaceful purposes in a way controlled by the organs of the united nations, and therefore, signing, complying with all the requirements of the united nations seems to us absolutely essential.
every meeting i have had with any iranian official – every meeting – has involved a call for iran to sign the additional protocol to the international atomic energy agency.
so, in addition to signing the additional protocol at the atomic energy agency, i also believe that we can contribute to increasing stability in the region, because it must be said that this region needs stability.
fourth observation: increased competition risks increasing pressure on natural and human resources and poses serious problems in terms of sustainable development, but also in terms of fair competition conditions, for example in terms of fundamental social rights.
our aim is to be able to apply this cumulation effectively in all the countries of the area by the end of 2004. finally, the promotion of sustainable development: we must give priority to incentive mechanisms and to respect for multilateral standards.
we must continue to examine how public action can ensure that liberalisation does not come at the expense of working conditions or the environment, and that failure to respect social or environmental standards is not used as a competitive advantage.
for example, consideration could be given to increasing the margin of tariff preference under the gsp for countries that apply these international standards, or to encouraging private programmes to promote sustainable development, or to exploring the possibilities of increasing consumer information on products to offer those consumers who wish to choose fair trade.
as you can see, and this is my conclusion, the european commission is very aware of the challenges facing the textile and clothing sector in terms of sustainable development, the fight against poverty, industrial and social policy and regional balances within the union.
this statement shows the need for a european industrial policy which, if it is to be effective, must not only cover purely industrial aspects but must be a horizontal policy which includes, among others, social and environmental aspects, but above all commercial policy.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0196/2003) by mr wijkman, on behalf of the committee on development and cooperation, on the communication from the commission to the council and the european parliament on energy cooperation with developing countries.
the commission (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, energy cooperation with developing countries is obviously not an easy subject, but it is a vital subject for all of us.
if we do not tackle the energy, development and environmental dimensions properly at the same time, we will really make very little progress.
but i also want to say that if we do not tackle the energy problem in the developing countries, not only will we not be able to achieve real development in those countries, but we will also not be able to tackle, from a responsible and effective point of view, problems such as the fight against climate change.
the combination of mr wijkman's knowledge and persistence has resulted in a document which contributes and gives a very useful impetus to the work we have to do to implement the johannesburg conclusions, which we are working on in the commission and, in particular, in the directorate-general for energy.
i would like to say that when the directorate-general for energy and transport started preparing a document of this kind, energy was not on the agenda in johannesburg.
we started working on energy and development cooperation before energy was included in the johannesburg agenda.
energy has been the key issue, or one of the key issues, on the agenda in johannesburg, but we at the directorate-general for energy and transport were working on it earlier, and i have to say that i personally had been the driving force behind this action.
because we have to say it very clearly: energy and water, that's life.
and if there is no water and no energy, not only is there no development possible, but there is no survival.
some of the specific proposals made will need further consideration to ensure that coherence is maintained with the overall objective of development cooperation, namely poverty eradication, combined with the promotion of balanced and sustainable energy development.
the resolution has rightly noted that the commission has been very modest in suggesting special and reserved funding for energy investment in developing countries.
this is a key point in the european union's energy policy for poverty eradication and sustainable development.
only if our partners in cooperation define and make the development of their energy sector a priority, and the moment they do, will the money start flowing.
mr wijkman is quite right in proposing that we should at least ensure that unused funds go to good energy projects instead of being unused.
i would like to say that the energy chapter is still one of the least frequently mentioned elements in the field of cooperation and aid for the eradication of poverty and the development of the poorest countries.
energy is associated with education.
energy is linked to access to certain new types of technology which we must help to spread in those countries, precisely to prevent the current poverty, which is simply a wealth gap between developed and underdeveloped countries, from widening further.
and there the energy, again, has to be present.
from the overall perspective with which the socialist group understands the concepts of development and cooperation, energy should be considered a transversal element in cooperation actions, insofar as it is a key element for sustainable development.
the energy used today, both in developing and industrialized countries, is polluting and ecologically destructive, but to remedy this, resources are needed.
the use of renewable and alternative energy sources which we advocate is expensive.
the commission must mobilise the funds needed to finance developing countries' access to renewable energy sources, so that the integration of the environmental dimension into development processes is not a declaration of intent that has not been fulfilled.
as mr wijkman said this evening, less than 5% of community cooperation funds are currently devoted to energy.
public involvement in the energy sector is necessary and, i stress, public investment, without prejudice to private companies taking part in the exploitation and distribution of energy.
in this respect, we cannot agree with the commission's choice to promote the privatization of the energy sector as a priority, which must be complementary to public action.
the private exploitation of energy sources does not contribute to poverty reduction.
the indicators of poverty are staggering in many african countries which export energy resources, fossil fuels exploited by private companies, often european.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the fact that the community's energy policy is not in line with the community's energy policy.
the commission itself, in its communication, highlights the link between poverty, environmental degradation and energy - as the commissioner has said today - but it does not make bold proposals for ecologically sustainable solutions.
we therefore welcome this initiative to partner with developing countries in the field of energy, but we do not have a real contingency plan with additional funds and a legislative proposal to provide the basis for the necessary action in this important area.
the two speakers have had to read a commission report which i have not read, which is surprising to me, because the commission report is not at any point advocating the privatization of energy services in developing countries.
the fact that we have made a proposal for privatization, which is not privatization at all, but liberalization - which are entirely different things - in the field of energy systems in the integrated european market has nothing to do with the things that you are concerned with attributing to a text and which do not appear in that text.
i would ask you to tell me on what page it says that we advocate the privatization of energy systems in developing countries.
let us talk about the real issues and not confuse what is a debate on the regulation of energy markets in the european union with what is support for development and the use of energy as a vehicle for development in developing countries, which are completely different things.
i am aware of the fact that there are many corrupt governments in africa and many corrupt governments in many countries, but what the people of those countries need is not that european companies exploit their energy resources, but that we support public services so that these people can - as she said, and which i think is very important - have access to electricity and water as elements of quality of life.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the report (a5-0198/2003) by mr lisi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council's common position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 96/82/ec on the control of major-accident hazards involving dangerous substances.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0158/2003) by mrs gonzález álvarez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission communication entitled 'towards a strategy for the protection and conservation of the marine environment'.
(es) mr president, i do not know if it is significant that environmental issues are almost always discussed at this time of night, which is not the most appropriate.
first of all, i would like to say that the commission's communication describes the current state of the marine environment and the pressures and threats it is facing, especially from industry, fisheries, agriculture, transport, the exploitation of gas and oil fields and the accidental introduction of species.
the commission communication also acknowledges that there is no integrated policy for the protection of the marine environment at union level.
in the committee on the environment we have tried to achieve these objectives, to extend some of these actions and, in short, to move towards a strategy for the protection of the marine environment which is consistent with european legislation and with the current situation of european seas.
it is recalled, and we agree on this, in that communication that the two fundamental references are the sixth environmental action programme and the johannesburg summit.
paragraph 10 of the johannesburg action plan places particular emphasis on sustainable development and says that oceans, seas, islands and coasts are an essential part of the planet's ecosystems and are fundamental to food security.
the loss of biodiversity caused by accidents has not been quantified, nor have the social and economic consequences.
the sixth programme contains an important chapter calling for the strengthening of marine protection, better integration of the environment into other policies, the development of a marine protection strategy and commitments to a clear action plan to curb the deterioration of biodiversity, to ensure the sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources and to recall the montreal declaration on the protection of the marine environment.
it is necessary to describe the relationship between the marine protection strategy and the other policies, fisheries, agriculture, transport and chemicals, and in this respect, for the development of activities, plans and programmes, to use environmental assessment and strategic assessment as much more appropriate instruments.
objective 9 - transport and maritime safety - is one of the most important at the moment, and we in the committee on the environment felt that it should be strengthened, because although following the erika accident and especially the most recent prestige accident, two reports on this subject were adopted in the last plenary session and two other reports were adopted in the committee on the environment this week, directives and communications are still being discussed.
the situation in european seas is not good, although the assessment and monitoring programmes reveal insufficient information on the marine environment.
in fact, the principles which we would like to see taken into account in this new strategy for the protection of the marine environment are the precautionary principle, the polluter-pays principle, the clear concept of sustainability, an integrated approach to the management of the marine environment, both on the coast and in the open sea, a strategic environmental assessment, a regional approach which takes account of the diversity of situations and which takes account, although not as substitutes, of all the appropriate international initiatives which already exist, such as ospar, helcom, ices, etc.
the concept of sustainable fisheries and the interaction between fisheries and seabirds, the balance between fish stocks, fishing effort and the environment, we believe are essential.
there must be a proposal from the commission for a real marine protection strategy and, in any case, i personally thank all the colleagues in the committee on the environment who have clearly contributed to the quality of this document being the best possible.
it encompasses, of course, many different aspects of the marine environment and this is what we must now continue to work on very practically.
the community must do its utmost to deliver sustainable fisheries in the mediterranean.
the plan will respond to this challenge and, if properly implemented and supported by our member states, it will allow us to achieve the main goal of reconciling fisheries with conservation of exploited resources and the environment within a framework of economic and social sustainability.
we are worried about the state of resources and sustainability of fisheries in the area.
the commission has already started work on a proposal to improve the technical measures to achieve better protection of juveniles, of habitats and, in general terms, of biodiversity.
the solutions to problems such as pollution caused by industry - as the rapporteur himself pointed out - or by high population density are therefore difficult.
we need an all-inclusive action plan, not limited to fishing measures, because no one can think that the sole cause of the scarcity of fishery resources is over-fishing, but that there is a whole set of elements that come together, mainly pollution of the seas, pollution due to the arrival at sea of pesticides used in agriculture, black tides and also to the daily discharges from oil tankers or the lack of treatment plants to treat waste water.
we must therefore - and this is urgent - take action against industrial and urban pollution in this sea.
without sustainable management of resources, the mediterranean fisheries are doomed, and this area employs almost half of the community's fishermen and half of the european fleet.
- mr president, it was not until the end of 2002 that the commission adopted an action plan to ensure the sustainability of fisheries in the mediterranean.
our colleague, also following the commission's plan, rightly insists that the mediterranean ecosystem has its own unity, which implies a multilateral approach to the question.
since march of this year, the climate has been serene.
if we can convince a number of economic operators to work for a more stable, less conflict-ridden, less divided environment, we may be able to create pressure for peace here and there.
i do not want to repeat his arguments "from the top to the bottom" and i ask the commissioner whether he would be prepared to adopt the following five measures: firstly, to be extremely zealous in the matter of anti-dumping cases, bearing in mind that chinese companies are subject to standards or levels far below those of europe in the field of labour and the environment; secondly, whether he is also prepared to be extremely zealous in anti-fraud measures, bearing in mind that at the moment it is possible to import chinese goods without a brand in any european port, which has a label in that port; thirdly, to promote research and development so that european companies can defend themselves against chinese competition; fourthly, to encourage the entry and establishment of european companies in china, bearing in mind, as the commissioner knows, that despite the fact that a customs warehouse is still being produced, the european importer is better off and depends on the chinese industry, and finally, whether he is prepared to set up a customs observatory to monitor the practices that are harmful to the industry.
we agree with that and all we want is that there should not be a legal vacuum, as is reflected in amendment no 21 and amendment no 4 to the report which was adopted in the committee on the environment.
in 1999 a total amount of 63.5 million tonnes of packaging waste was generated in the european union.
this corresponds to around 17% of municipal solid waste and 3% of the total waste generation by weight.
the packaging and packaging waste directive has made the collection and recycling of packaging waste a normal activity in all eu member states, increasingly so also in the accession countries.
in this way the directive has helped to reduce environmental impacts and to strengthen the internal market for packaging and packaging waste.
however, the need for further analysis also applies to the new obligation referred to in the first part of amendment no 7. this new obligation to minimise the environmental impact of packaging risks duplicating the existing essential requirements and facing the same problems in regard to enforcement.
it would also seem strange to me to apply stricter controls on exports of packaging waste than the provisions on waste electrical and electronic equipment, which we decided just a few months ago.
in the report she presented to the committee on the environment, we agreed on many points, but mrs corbey wanted to go further and, after reaching a compromise, she introduced amendments at the last minute to amendments nos 26 and 27, which have forced me not to sign them and to vote against them tomorrow.
can anyone think that waste collection can be done on equal terms?
i think it is very important that we support the various options for treating waste: reuse, recycling and energy recovery.
all three are better than just dumping the waste in landfills.
finally, we must bear in mind that packaging waste is a relatively small part of the total waste generated in the member states, 3% as you have said, madam commissioner.
i would also like to point out that this proposal is the implementation of one of the objectives of the sixth environmental action programme and to consider, as the rapporteur has done, that the objectives of the proposal are ambitious but achievable, as some member states have shown, by already complying with some aspects of this directive on packaging and packaging waste.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done on this subject.
i am sure that the commission will be able to support the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
(es) mr president, as our colleague, esko seppänen, said, our group is not enthusiastic about emissions trading, because we believe it can contribute to the imbalance between rich and poor countries, but we in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy do support mr moreira da silva's proposal, because it seeks to introduce stricter controls on this trade, by taking back some of the amendments from the first reading, which we think are important.
we agree with the rapporteur that all six greenhouse gases must be included, although the common position only states that, from 2008, states may apply for their unilateral inclusion in the rights trading system.
we consider it important that projects relating to the clean development mechanism and joint implementation do not replace the priority which should be given to the reduction of emissions which must be carried out within the european union.
(es) mr president, commissioner, the environmental and economic significance of this directive is clear.
the european emission allowance market will provide member states with an effective instrument within their climate change policies to bridge the gap between the reality of pollutant emissions and the fulfilment of the kyoto commitments in the best possible cost-benefit situation.
european environmental policy is moving from words to deeds, from rules and principles to practice, linking economy and environment.
this always creates uncertainty, resistance to change, potential winners and losers and arguments can certainly be made in this direction, but i think there are many more arguments to convince us that we are moving in the right direction and to confirm that europe, through directives such as this, is consolidating its determination to lead the process of achieving sustainable development.
mr moreira, i hope that tomorrow we can congratulate you and congratulate ourselves on having succeeded in taking such an important step towards environmental practice.
(es) mr president, commissioner, we are today discussing the marco polo programme, with a view to reducing road congestion and contributing to an efficient and sustainable transport system.
we believe that energy supplies should be made in euros.
last year, at the third world congress of rural women held in madrid, the principle of equal opportunities for countrywomen was upheld as a separate requisite of sustainable development for the rural areas of europe.
it is true, however, and in this respect we share parliament's concern, that the existence of acts of political violence and the creation of a climate of mediation and impunity at the present time creates tensions for this electoral process.
these forest fires are perhaps more frequently caused by climate change, but also by changing circumstances in forests and rural areas.
so the forest is moving from an economic function to another, also very important, environmental function.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i am sure that the commission will take the necessary steps to ensure that this is done.
this year it is the heat wave: a health disaster in france and an ecological disaster in portugal, as well as on our mediterranean coast.
these severe weather disturbances may be the result of global warming, which is itself aggravated, as is well known, by the greenhouse effect due to co2 emissions.
in order to reduce the greenhouse effect, we must encourage the commission to ensure that the kyoto commitments are respected.
more energy-efficient means of transport need to be encouraged.
their intervention in cases of ecological disasters would encourage the member states to respond.
in short, sustainable development must move beyond the sunday carols to become a reality, and that is the point of our draft resolution.
what is exceptional is that these temperatures are beyond anything we know, and therefore climate change skeptics should perhaps reflect on this and governments, businesses and individuals should take appropriate action.
there are arsonists and there are many criminal cases and we must also ask ourselves what we are doing with the directive and other environmental liability regulations, how we are applying them, how they are being transposed and how they are being implemented, how we are demanding that liability.
the community's environmental responsibilities and the commitment made by the european union in kyoto require a greater budgetary allocation and a greater involvement of the european union in firefighting.
as mr martin and many of my colleagues have said, and i will not repeat it, it is politically unrepresentative that the budget for the only regulation devoted exclusively to forest protection, pollution and fires should be reduced by five million euros, to say that at this moment we are going to fight fires, taking away prevention, we are going to study pollution, increase biodiversity and also study carbon.
i would like to not have to speak or to mourn or to express my sympathy to the families of those who have disappeared in these fires, or to the landscape, the housing, etc., with all that has disappeared, but i think it is a petty policy of the environment commissioner to try to reduce the only funds that exist and to try to say that they have been transferred to rural development when, firstly, the countries have not had the opportunity to introduce them into their programmes and, secondly, the funds are not in rural development either.
the commission's services have also been working hard to identify the issue in various working papers for almost all of the proposals mentioned in mr koukiadis' report, particularly in the areas of protection of financial interests, environmental protection through criminal law, racism and xenophobia, which have never been dealt with so systematically outside the academic world.
the commission, supported by the parliament, defends this position before the court of justice in the action for annulment of the framework decision on the protection of the environment through criminal law.
the human factor is a very important aspect of safety at sea, but it also preserves the marine environment.
as the rapporteur has rightly pointed out, there have been a number of events at sea, a number of disasters, which have given rise to reflections, from the point of view of safety and health at work or the environment, on the aspects of a productive activity, which also makes a very important contribution to the realization of the right of every worker to exercise his activity in conditions which respect his health, his safety and his dignity, as enshrined in article 31 of the charter of fundamental rights of the european union.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the protection of the environment, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report.
last june, the international atomic energy agency fully confirmed these allegations, so that the european institutions finally had to face the facts.
the commission welcomed the june report of the international atomic energy agency (iaea) but noted with concern that iran had failed to fulfil some of its obligations under the non-proliferation treaty safeguards agreement.
the beneficiaries of the premium must manage their land in accordance with agricultural and environmental standards.
- question no 44 by mrs korhola (h-0474/03): subject: adaptation of the flexibility mechanisms of the kyoto protocol to development cooperation the european union is preparing a directive on emission credits which, in accordance with the kyoto protocol, will be obtained under joint implementation (ji) or clean development mechanism (cdm) and which can be traded and valued as emission allowances on the international market (international emissions trading - iet).
the lower and middle reaches of the júcar have outstanding ecological value.
is the commission aware that neither the hydrological plan for the júcar basin nor the phn sets any ecological flow rate for this river from the mouth of the acequia real del júcar to the mouth?
does it think that it is possible to ensure the conservation of a body of water of such ecological value without hydrological planning guaranteeing at least a minimum conservation flow and avoiding biological pollution resulting from mixing with water from other basins?
european environmental legislation, especially the habitats directive and the water framework directive, must be respected.
this means that the river júcar must achieve at least 'good' ecological status by december 2015 at the latest, and the dependent terrestrial ecosystems and wetlands must be protected.
i am always interested in making sure that we can make enough environmental information available to ngos or to the public, as long as we do not reveal businesses' secrets or confidential matters.
- question no 51 by mr davies (h-0441/03): subject: ecological flows of the ebro and the water framework directive what is the commission's view on the scientific and political debate in spain on the estimates of the minimum ecological flow that the ebro should have in relation to its delta following the abstraction of part of the water from this river?
the water framework directive requires that further deterioration of the current water status be avoided and that a 'good' ecological (including hydromorphological) status of river basins as a whole, and not just of certain river sections, be achieved.
does the commission consider that the dual objective of preventing the current deterioration of the water quality of the ebro and of identifying the factors representing a 'good' ecological status of the entire river basin should be achieved before further evaluating whether the abstraction of water from the river is technically possible and which areas could ultimately benefit from it?
this is one of the two issues that the commission has proposed to address in a technical meeting with the spanish authorities and selected organisations, which is scheduled to take place in mid-october 2003. the need to ensure a suitable level of protection for the lower ebro river and the ebro delta is clearly very closely linked to the requirements of the water framework directive to avoid deterioration as from its entry into force in december 2000, and to ensure the achievement of good ecological and chemical status by december 2015 at the latest.
- question no 52 by mr nogueira román (h-0434/03) subject: total costs of repairing the environmental damage caused by the prestige disaster in view of the scale of the disaster, which affects several member states, is the commission prepared to carry out a study on the costs of restoring the situation and of repairing the environmental damage and, consequently, the economic and social damage caused in the long term by the prestige accident off the coast of galicia?
as regards community assistance to help spain redress damage and associated economic impact, the commission offered to co-finance an environmental impact survey to the tune of eur 300 000. contacts were established on the conditions for such a study, which the spanish authorities are currently considering.
i offered the spanish authorities funding or co-funding for an environmental impact study.
i also hope it is considering our offer to make the environmental impact study i mentioned, because this is for the longer term and would be very useful in preventing such accidents from happening again.
it is worth noting that the un convention is yet another recognition of the fact that it is not the disability of the individual that needs to be corrected, but the inhibitory environment that needs to be adapted in order to ensure full participation and equal opportunities.
financial compensation and measures demonstrating the european union's interest in ensuring, beyond legitimate support for the fishing activity of community vessels, the sustainable development of the republic of guinea's own fisheries sector and greater control over the implementation of the measures provided for in the protocol.
the agreements should also serve the community to establish strategic partnerships in international fora in order to make effective progress in the fight against illegal fishing, which is the greatest threat to sustainable fishing and the future of the fishing industry.
we want the community to help the guinean authorities responsible to control and monitor fishing activities until the country's fisheries resources are exploited in a sustainable way, with respect for the environment and marine resources.
because the victim must be protected; the victim does not have to run away, does not have to hide, he must stay in his home, in his environment, with sufficient protection and with the removal of the aggressor.
the council would therefore be prepared to encourage the strengthening of development cooperation by the european union towards cuba in those areas which can facilitate the transition, the path towards a pluralist democracy and respect for human rights, and in those areas which can improve the quality of life of the cuban people and thus also sustainable economic growth.
the latest evaluation of the common position encourages the strengthening of eu development cooperation in cuba in areas that promote the transition to pluralist democracy and respect for human rights, that improve the living standards of the population of cuba and promote sustainable economic growth.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, we have certainly come a long way in the more than 50 years since the day that can perhaps be regarded as the birth of the european union: the declaration of robert schuman of 9 may 1950 proposing to pool the management of a few interests - those relating to energy, raw materials and the economy - in order to promote and implement the values of solidarity and peace.
and i think we have to be clear that sustainable development is a tailor-made suit, that the problems are not the same in one place as in another and therefore we have to proclaim from the beginning flexible and open policies that allow a thousand different solutions, hundreds and thousands of small projects, appropriate to the site and the place.
and just as the great rivers are shared and enjoyed by people of different languages, religions or nationalities, it is a transboundary good and therefore requires international agreements and conventions for the sake of justice and sustainability.
i believe that there are very important legal issues that europe should promote and also introduce the concept of flexibility, sustainability and tailor-made clothing.
this is not a one-way street, although there is no doubt that development processes need to be participatory if they are to be effective and sustainable.
the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment is based on the principle of the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
i think we all worry, not just green environmentalists, when the biodiversity of nature is threatened by human action.
however, we often forget about human biodiversity, one of the main manifestations of which is the different languages and cultures, which are sometimes not respected or protected, but are simply tried to eliminate, in the interests of a commercial convenience of uniformity and globalizing alignment.
is it not equally negligent of european governments not to consider the consequences of climate change in terms of desertification and loss of biodiversity in our states?
the climate of virtual war threat in which cuba has lived for many years has thus risen to a climate of real war threat and, in the face of this threat, there have been reactions that we can criticize - we have criticized them - but that does not mean that we cannot understand them.
i would also add that the political need for discussion and energy to be injected into the subject has more to do with what to do now than with the starting-point of the discussion which related to the actual administration of the customs regime.
i would like to conclude by expressing two specific requests which are very much appreciated by this parliament and, i hope, also by the commission: greater efforts to avoid any delay in payment of aid from now on, and an evaluation of the methods of cultivation and production in order to avoid financing projects which have negative effects, not only on the environment but, above all, on the health of the people working in the banana sector in the producing countries, giving priority to the use of biodegradable substances in the banana cultivation process.
in response to the repeated suggestions by the commission, several acp banana suppliers are changing their strategies and seeking more financial support to fund diversification where the banana industry is no longer sustainable.
problems are becoming common: poverty, hunger, war, immigration, communicable diseases, ecological disasters and so on.
i would like to remind you of where we are today in the fight against marine pollution.
i would also like to point out that the beaches affected have been cleaned up, which does not mean that there are no longer, especially in the bay of biscay and the atlantic area, remnants of the prestige's discharges, which are carried by the currents and the winds and which may at any given time cause specific pollution on some european coast.
i would like to point out that we have spoken on several occasions about the need to improve traffic safety and the european union's ability to respond to the risks of accidents or serious pollution; here are the proposals to amend the agency so that it has more powers; here is the proposal, and i would like to thank parliament for the support we will in principle receive from the agency, to have means, namely anti-pollution vessels that can operate in rough seas and that are not forced, as happened in the case of the prestige, to remain moored because of the size of the waves, but can operate with waves of more than four metres.
(applause) i would like to thank
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the (es) mr president, madam commissioner, as rapporteur for the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, i would first of all like to express our admiration for the extraordinary work done by seafarers, their associations and professional organisations, and the thousands of volunteers who have reduced the impact of the aggression on the environment.
at the same time, we would like to stress that, in addition to the compensation for environmental damage and the maintenance of aid for all those people and companies still affected by the black tide in the fisheries, shellfish and aquaculture sectors, there must be equitable compensation for all the social and economic damage caused by the prestige shipwreck in the other sectors of the industrial fabric affected, such as canning, trade, transport, hospitality, tourism, etc.
to this end, we call for the mobilization of all community funds and technical means without exception, the adoption of the supplementary fund for combating pollution caused by oil tankers and new budgetary appropriations for environmental impact assessment, compensation for damage not covered by existing international conventions, the creation of a network for the exchange of experience in oil pollution, emergency response plans, etc.
in conclusion, in addition to thanking the members of the employment committee for their unanimous support of the opinion, i would like to reiterate my gratitude to the people of the sea, to the fishermen, to the shellfishermen, to the volunteers and to all those who have fought tenaciously against pollution and for the defence of the environment and fisheries resources.
these include: spanish-french agreements on the handling of the wrecked vessel; contradictory information from the spanish authorities on the amount of oil released from the wreck and the original amount of oil transported by the tanker; analyses of the environmental impact of oil pollution; and initial assessments of the social and economic consequences of the disaster after the summer break.
the minister for tourism in my region, galicia, says that this is a catastrophe more media than ecological, and he says this in front of 51,000 tonnes of waste that was collected at sea, 79,000 tonnes of waste that was collected on land, 31,000 tonnes more that were collected in france on land and 1,500 in the sea, just on the french atlantic coast, and he says this ten days ago, the same day that the fuel arrives on the belgian coast.
it is our duty to eradicate easy money and unscrupulous business in shipping at the expense of the marine environment and its wealth.
we want the environment to be respected and protected, which in many cases is the very source of economic and social stability for its people.
it is not logical to say that the report by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and the commission's proposal solve these problems, because they are solved by the amendments adopted by the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport and the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
it is important to take account of the amendments i have tabled, because one of our fundamental tasks is to protect and defend european products, because they are produced in accordance with the strictest quality and environmental standards.
finally, i would like to refer to the reimbursement of funds to the 'forest axis' and to the prevention and control of fires, because, as we have seen this summer, the absence of prevention and control of forest fires can lead to very dramatic environmental situations.
firstly, the resolution on the 2004 budget states that funds should be allocated to develop further the use of environmental indicators.
the report on adequate and sustainable pensions touches on one of the most pressing issues in the hands of all governments.
it is clear that on the one hand it is important and necessary to change the age limit, for reasons of sustainability, on the other hand this cannot be done alone and without accompanying it with employment policies which will help the elderly worker to stay in the labour market, because today, because of the culture that exists in the labour market, the reality that has existed for many years, it is very difficult for elderly unemployed people over 55 to find work easily.
(applause) i would like to thank
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a directive on the (es) mr president, the opinion expressed by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on the european constitution and the forthcoming intergovernmental conference gives a very positive assessment of the contributions made by the convention in the field of its competence, and it has expressed this in a document adopted by virtually the unanimity of its members.
you must take a stand and fight against the ambiguity of the environment.
this also promotes sustainable development.
- the next item is the report (a5-0294/2003) by mr bodrato, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the european space policy - green paper (com (2003) 17 - c5-0209/2003 - 2003/2092 (ini)).
europe's objectives must be based on public resources, as is the case around the world, and on more active development of common policies in areas such as agriculture, telecommunications, the environment and transport.
for the avoidance of doubt, the report refers to the un resolution on preventing an arms race in outer space and to the convention itself, which proposes to promote peace and contribute to security and sustainable development on earth.
- the next item is the report (a5-0294/2003) by mr guido bodrato, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on european space policy.
the cooperation for the development of fisheries that international fisheries agreements imply is obvious; and that the european union is using them to achieve responsible fishing in those third countries' fishing grounds and the development of a sustainable fisheries sector is also obvious.
namibia, for example, is now a world fishing power, a zealous, faithful guardian of its fisheries resources and its sustainable fisheries, and all this thanks to european investments.
i do not know whether there is enough political energy at the moment, ladies and gentlemen, in both camps, and enough political energy in the international community, for a strong electroshock operation.
i therefore see that there is not enough energy at the moment - we must make it possible, perhaps the europeans - to carry out an electroshock operation on the palestinian problem that concerns us.
it's our neighborhood environment.
these theses included the need for political firmness on the part of this parliament in the face of the proposal for the forest focus regulation, which was presented by the commission to replace the two old pollution regulations: the fight against pollution in europe and the fight against fires in europe.
in the commission's proposal, these two objectives - 'pollution' and 'fires' - were joined by the study of biodiversity, climate change and carbon sequestration.
my group and i will support it, and i would also like to commend the speech by mrs wallström, who has always been so concerned and so sensitive about all environmental problems, as she has shown in her speeches on the spanish state and its water distribution.
i agree with the whole report, i think it is important to raise millions for the reconstruction of forestry disasters, but it seems to me that there must be democratic control in all the mediterranean countries if the investments made by this parliament in information, prevention and replanting are to be truly met, because otherwise we may find ourselves a few years from now at the same starting point, affected by the atmospheric situation, by the situation of the warming of the land and by the mismanagement of the member states.
i think there are a few points left for conciliation with the council - some of them a little more difficult - but let us hope that we can find formulas and thus be able to complete this second railway package which, together with the first - which we have completed in this legislature - will mean that this legislature will have really brought the european freight railway into the 21st century, which is something very ambitious and absolutely necessary to have balanced and sustainable transport in europe.
we hope that the initiatives of parliament, reaffirmed in this budget and also presented in previous resolutions, will also be reflected in the commission's letter of amendment, which will be published soon: in particular the pilot projects, or preparatory actions, on environmental indicators, the financing of animal diseases, the development of better vaccines and the establishment of a quality policy for agricultural products.
the chapter on internal policies provides for another reduction on the commission's part, but an increase on the council's part, in the measures to be taken to combat the increasingly sensitive problem of marine pollution.
i do not want to prejudge the outcome, since it has yet to be confirmed by the commission, but i can already announce that we are including most of the proposals of the rapporteur, mr mulder, which have been the subject of intense discussion in the meantime: proposals to provide additional funds for the financing of a study on whether and how farmers could be insured, at least in part, against losses from animal diseases throughout europe, to provide funding for the development of environmental indicators, which are playing an increasing role in the context of the agricultural reform, and for the possibility of introducing european quality labels.
the maastricht treaty gave the community the task of contributing to the creation and development of transeuropean networks of transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure.
we therefore proposed that resources be allocated at european level to promote, monitor and evaluate a policy of ecologically and socially sustainable tourism, but this was rejected.
article 5 of that directive requires that tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide contents be printed on the pack of cigarettes and that each unit of cigarette packaging bears a general warning and supplementary health warnings covering at least 30% of the front surface and 40% of the rear surface in order to inform the consumer of the risks of tobacco consumption.
the commission therefore considers that the provisions of those directives are applicable to that entity when it awards a contract falling within the scope of those directives and that the environmental studies contract referred to by the honourable member should have been published in the official journal of the european union.
in a letter to me of 19 june 2003 from mr martinez fernandez, secretary of state for coastal and inland waterways at the spanish ministry of the environment, he acknowledged the correctness of the commission's analysis.
the commission therefore considers that the provisions of the public procurement directives apply to this entity when it places a contract falling within the scope of these directives and that the environmental impact assessment contract mentioned by the honourable member should have been published in the official journal of the european union.
in a letter of 19 june 2003 to the commissioner, mr martinez fernandez, state secretary for coastal and water affairs at the spanish ministry of the environment, acknowledged the correctness of the commission's analysis.
in my experience, as a long retired development minister, one of the crucial issues, perhaps the crucial issue, in sustainable development policy is gender mainstreaming and decent treatment of women.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0345/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the adoption of a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/35/ec on sweeteners for use in foodstuffs (9714/1/2003 - c5-0299/2003 - 2002/0152 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs ferreira).
in particular, it should be remembered that in 1991 the german christian-democratic government, under minister klaus töpfer, introduced a packaging regulation, which in 1998 was modelled on the cdu environment minister, angela merkel, and in 2001 an attempt to improve that regulation failed because the cdu majority in the bundesrat made it worse, with the result that no adequate system of packaging refunds could be established.
the question i would ask the commissioner is to what extent are the commission and the institutions of the european union failing in their duty when they do not propose or adopt community-wide regulations to prevent this accumulation of solid waste, which is at the moment making it quite difficult to organise work - for example in cities - with enormous costs for local administrations to dispose of these resources.
i have the impression, mr president, that at this point, and without prejudice to the fact that i think it is right for the commission to try to harmonize the measures, we must remember articles 174 and 176 of the treaty on european union - which are there - which, on the one hand, empower the states to take measures to better protect the environment, but on the other hand, encourage the community institutions to take measures of a general nature, so that a problem as serious as the one we have today of the accumulation of solid waste can be solved by the only rational way, which is the community way.
the second difficulty facing the italian presidency is how to get back on the path of sustainable growth and job creation.
it is true - as the report points out - that a climate of mutual trust between the parties has not been established and that, in recent times, the enemies of peace have erected many obstacles and pretexts in order to make the roadmap unviable, but it is our duty to continue to try to achieve it in the immediate, medium and long term.
we need to work towards a balanced approach to sustainable development, where the three pillars – economic, social and environmental – are balanced and progress in parallel.
if we fail with the economy – if we do not have competitive companies – the whole of sustainable development is in danger.
if economic development is poor, we fail to meet social and environmental objectives.
achieving this requires a broad and dynamic business fabric, mainly composed of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are best able to adapt to the challenges of a constantly changing environment and thus respond to citizens' concerns about employment.
in addition to all these aspects, we must also encourage the spirit of enterprise and promote the creation of businesses and a favourable climate for their development and growth.
the importance and value of small and mediumsized enterprises as a basic pillar of the european economy must be reaffirmed and the creation of an environment that ensures the proper training of entrepreneurs, stimulates the creation of new enterprises, encourages their growth, promotes their competitiveness and removes the legislative, administrative and fiscal obstacles that hinder entrepreneurial activity in line with what the langen report very rightly proposes.
i believe that the european union, as the commissioner has rightly said, must appeal to moderation and sanity, so that we can all have a constructive dialogue that creates a climate of trust and understanding.
our joint resolution seeks to intervene positively, by strengthening democracy, defending the right of the people to their own energy resources and condemning the use of excessive violence by the previous government against the protesters.
knowing the causes is essential if recovery plans - this plan for cod or other future plans - are to achieve their objectives, because if we limit ourselves to reducing catches and do not tackle other causes than overfishing - and i am thinking of the breakdown of the food chain or the pollution of the seas - we may find that the years have passed and fish stocks have not increased.
all the actions of the common fisheries policy must be geared towards a common objective, that of sustainable fishing, the only way to make sustainable fishing possible.
but the union's other policies - such as industrial and environmental - must also contribute to the preservation of resources.
the objective of sustainable fisheries will not be achieved by laws and regulations, which are necessary but not sufficient.
(es) pops are essential to reach a level of resources that makes fishing a sustainable activity with a future in the eu.
the socialist group is committed to a long-term policy combining the adaptation of the fleet to the resources with the maintenance of a sustainable fishing activity.
as has just been said, it is true that the cotton, olive oil and tobacco sectors have their own specificities, that their production is concentrated in regions which, in general, are lagging behind in development, and that is why the commission has taken account of the economic, social and environmental effects of a total decoupling in these sectors.
but on the other hand, to reduce the negative effects on the environment, we are proposing maximum area limits, which are actually lower than the areas planted during the reference period for the allocation of the new area payment.
with regard to olive oil, we are also trying to reconcile a better orientation towards the market and greater stability of farmers' incomes, on the one hand, and the preservation of olive groves where they have a clear social and environmental benefit, on the other.
because we are seeking two fundamental principles: the territorial balance in europe and the avoidance of problems of depopulation and problems - as we are well aware in my home country of aragon - of desertification of the rural environment.
parliament proposes to introduce a number of sectoral targets in the regulation: 35% for social infrastructure and, within this figure, 20% for basic education and health; another 10% for the environment and up to 15% for civil society.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the agenda calls for the report (a5-0360/2003) by mr blak, on behalf of the committee on budgetary control, on: 1. the discharge to be given to the european agency for safety and health at work for the financial year 2001 (c5-0102/2003 - 2003/2046 (dec)) 2. the discharge to be given to the european environment agency for the financial year 2001 (c5-0098/2003 - 2003/2044 (dec)) 3. the discharge to be given to the translation centre for the bodies of the european union for the financial year 2001 (c5-0100/2003 - 2003/2045 (dec)) 4. the discharge to be given to the european monitoring centre for drugs and drug addiction for the financial year 2001 (c5-0096/2003 - 2003/2043 (dec)) 5. the discharge to be given to the european monitoring centre for racism and xenophobia for the financial year 2001 (c5-0094/2003 (dec))
- this debate is over.
on the other hand, it also provided some policy measures which would establish a more direct relationship between taxation levels and the polluting emissions of passenger cars, thus contributing to the community's environmental objectives under the kyoto protocol.
i am happy to see that strong support already appears in the opinions provided to the committee on economic and monetary affairs by both the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism.
it is a matter of giving priority to environmental criteria in order to achieve the kyoto objectives, as the report rightly reminds us.
indeed, studies on this subject seem to conclude that the emissions of these engines are much lower than those of the others.
however, it must never be forgotten that from an environmental point of view and also because of geopolitical considerations, the ultimate objective must be the replacement of current fuels by non-polluting and non-conflict energy sources.
to this end, all efforts to find new sources of energy, such as hydrogen, should be welcomed.
with reference to the conclusions of the report, the commission would like to express its gratitude to the european parliament for the strong support it has given to policy measures, such as those necessary to abolish registration taxes (paragraph 16), to bring forward changes in order to introduce an environmentally-oriented tax system (paragraphs 12 and 13), and to use tax differentials as a tool to promote passenger cars producing less than 120 grammes per kilometre of carbon dioxide emissions (paragraph 7).
and in view of the recent environmental disasters, we have wanted to strengthen the safety measures for the transport of goods containing dangerous substances.
the illegal handling of such substances constitutes a special risk for both the environment and people and should therefore be brought within the scope of this regulation.
it is precisely at this time that the tragic incident of the oil tanker prestige takes place, which ended up sinking to the bottom of the sea, causing the greatest marine pollution and environmental aggression known to man.
we cannot waste a single second on political discussions which prolong legislative procedures on such sensitive matters.
we want ports that are sustainable, that are competitive and that are able to be an alternative to other forms of transport.
one of the consequences of this regulation of maritime transport is - a question has been asked here - whether or not it is sustainable to try to regulate ports, to regulate and liberalise them.
when we talk about whether it is possible to maintain sustainable transport, it is clear that if we are not clear that one of the conditions for the sustainability of transport is the exponential increase in port capacity, we are heading in the opposite direction.
i therefore maintain that it is absolutely vital that ports should assume a role infinitely greater than they do now, and that the environmental contribution of this transformation would be so extraordinary that it would enable us to solve, to a large extent, the great collapse, the enormous insecurity, far greater than can be solved in the port sector, and the great pollution which, at the moment, is generated through the other means of transport.
the reasons for limiting self-help are 'security considerations or requirements arising from environmental standards' (article 10), among others.
we are now faced with the problem of truly sustainable transport over time, efficient transport which we need in the european union for our competitiveness and also for our citizens and for the development of all our countries and for the improvement of the environment.
once the analysis is complete, the commission will, of course, present its findings and set out its views on any possible additional steps to be taken, in full respect of treaty guarantees for services of general economic interest and of environmental provisions.
i also want to congratulate the rapporteur on his great work, even though i do not share any of his views, because many of the amendments he has tabled tend to restrict the free movement of waste.
and waste, whether we like it or not, is a commodity and as such must be treated, even if we regulate aspects which may affect the environment.
the transport of waste is not an environmental problem in itself, but rather the problem of how to manage this waste, but this is a subject which does not fall within the scope of this regulation.
the committee on the environment has approved the deletion of article 133 as the legal basis of the proposal, and the committee on legal affairs is in favour of this change of legal basis.
it is particularly important to establish clear rules for the transport of waste by ship and in this connection mr blokland has tabled amendment no 92, which we support, because it solves the problem of ships being exported for scrapping.
however, amendments nos 37 and 44 remove the principle of community self-sufficiency laid down in the waste framework directive and establish a single principle of national self-sufficiency.
we are not going to support them because they are against the provisions of the waste framework directive itself.
but we are asking the commission to amend the annexes to the framework directive on waste to make it clear once and for all what recovery is, because it cannot continue to hide behind the court of justice judgment according to which the commission interprets its own directives.
the judgments are not laws, they are cases and, for the moment, all they are doing is helping the operators involved in waste management to carry out their activities in conditions of legal uncertainty.
as we have said many times, sustainable development is a tailor-made suit and all scientific work must be adapted to reality.
this means that we are entering the realm of complexity and that the commission is accepting the difficult challenge of developing a soil policy which recognises the diversity of each site, each zone, each climate.
i would like to focus on two themes, which are new: the commitment to study desertification and the relationship with the variables that cause it, such as climate change.
the european council welcomed the initiatives of civil society on both sides and expressed its readiness to further support efforts to promote rapprochement, the creation of a climate of confidence and the search for a lasting peace.
fleet renewal is vital not only for the survival of companies, not only for the environment, because it is less polluting, but also for the safety and working conditions of workers.
many interpreted this development as an attempt by the us to secure russian cooperation in the fight against terrorism and to improve access to russian energy resources as an alternative to gulf oil.
in its statement of 21 october, the union welcomed the appointment of mr mesa gisbert as the new constitutional representative and underlined that it would continue to provide assistance and assistance to bolivia in order to strengthen democratic institutions, the rule of law and respect for human rights and to promote a more favourable climate for social progress and economic development.
we are facing a peculiar situation, which is curious, because in an environment of budgetary forecasts, such as we have at the moment, with a reconciliation behind closed doors for next monday, we are witnessing the history of a budgetary contingency, that is, a regulation, which comes into force on 1 january 2003 and which has not deserved the attention of any commission body until the communication of 29 september in which the issue of subsidies for information centres was considered closed.
of course, from a political point of view, the timing is not the best either, because the breakdown of the stability pact gives the impression that there are two standards in europe - i would very much like you to convey that to mr tremonti - which does not help to create the best climate for consensus.
next week the commission will present its annual report entitled 'better regulation 2003', which will provide for the first time an overview of all the work being done to improve the eu's regulatory environment.
in the field of the environment, a similar initiative aimed at concluding a tripartite agreement has been launched in three european cities.
tripartite agreements could also be agreed in the near future within the framework of the measures implementing the sustainability pacts for the future initiative.
i would like to stress the need for collaboration between the administrations within the member states, deepening subsidiarity, for the good purpose and achievement of the objectives we have set for ourselves in most of the programmes and projects arising from the european cohesion and environmental policies, and to ensure their sustainability.
it will not only help to supply the community market but also, as mr piscarreta said, help to develop the mozambican fisheries sector, all within a framework of sustainable development.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0400/2003) by mrs lucas, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on a european union strategy to reduce air emissions from seagoing vessels (com (2002) 595 - c5-0154/2003 - 2003/2064 (ini)).
first, i believe that a proposal to include polyaromatic hydrocarbons and heavy metals in the ship emissions strategy is perhaps premature.
secondly, the commission is somewhat disappointed by the proposal that ships travelling to remote island regions should be exempt from emissions policies.
the use of shoreside electricity in harbours, which mrs lucas, the rapporteur, is trying to promote, would dramatically reduce emissions of both air pollutants and noise, offering real improvements in the quality of life in port cities.
in that respect i should like to welcome, and indeed echo, parliament’s call for eu member states and acceding countries to ratify, as a matter of urgency, annex vi of the imo’s air pollution convention, marpol, and to submit proposals to the imo for tighter global standards.
we are all aware of the importance of protecting the environment and the fact that this directive reflects the 'polluter pays' principle.
however, we must also be aware that polluters are often companies, and we must preserve their survival in our economic environment.
the environmental impact on companies is too great, and i support mrs thyssen's amendment, which reduced the time limit to 10 years.
it is much more logical to reduce the time limit within which companies must be held liable for environmental damage.
i understand and share the concern to make progress in environmental terms while maintaining the economic health of companies, although i think it is an argument used too much and that often does not reflect the reality of the effort that companies can and must make to comply with this and other community regulations.
i believe that the common position would have achieved, or indeed has achieved, a satisfactory balance between legal certainty, environmental protection and the development of industrial activity.
i would like to say that i support amendment no 46 because i believe that not doing so would further weaken the environmental liability regime in certain maritime transport which i consider important.
in this budgetary procedure we have also fixed the figures for the new member states for all the multiannual funding programmes, from research funding to environmental programmes to transeuropean networks.
- question no 2 by mr alavanos (h-0727/03): subject: greek seamen held hostage in pakistan on 27 july 2003, the tanker 'tasman spirit', then under the command of a local pilot, ran aground at the entrance to karachi harbour, causing a serious leak in the fuel it was carrying and a real ecological disaster.
in view of the european union's human rights policy in the union and in the world, the role of the union in promoting human rights and democracy in third countries, the strengthening of democracy, the rule of law and respect for human rights and fundamental freedoms and respect for fundamental rights in the european union, does the council consider abortion as a fundamental and inalienable human right, in particular in the context of combating poverty and promoting sustainable development?
without them, poverty eradication, the promotion of human rights, good work and the protection of the environment are chimeras or ephemeral achievements.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment.
i would like to thank the rapporteur, mr glante, and the other rapporteurs and other responsible members of parliament who have worked hard on this directive, which is so important for energy policy in europe and at the same time so complex, in many cases from a technical point of view.
the directive on the promotion of cogeneration is a step forward, which is intended to help solve the problems facing our energy sector in europe, such as the need to save energy and reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
high-efficiency cogeneration is more efficient, as it involves energy savings and therefore reduced emissions.
we are also looking at cogeneration with renewable energies, at a time when this helps us to increase security of supply and reduce the vulnerability of electricity transport, sometimes over long distances; indeed, cogeneration usually involves a greater proximity between electricity production and electricity demand and therefore brings generation closer to consumption.
it also means greater flexibility in energy supply, since - i repeat - cogeneration can be produced on the basis of any fuel, including renewable energies.
the debate has brought these different concepts together and has led us to something which seems essential: that cogeneration be genuine cogeneration and that it mean an improvement in the real global energy balance.
these reports should be published and examined by all interested parties, and i have no doubt that viable capacities will be followed by the necessary measures to put into operation and use those capacities for more energy-efficient cogeneration.
(es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner, we have added a new floor to the building of the union's energy policy which the commission - and in particular the vice-president of the court - has been promoting since the beginning of this parliamentary term.
this energy policy is based on the following principles: security of supply, reduction of our energy bill and preservation of the quality of the environment.
these two competing interests were represented curiously by two physical parameters: the energy efficiency of the installation and the saving of primary energy.
we have certainly made a step forward in this energy policy which we all share and we hope that this directive will soon be translated into a harmonized method and a unified scheme for the promotion of cogeneration which will enable us to achieve the objectives which we have all been pursuing for some time.
we must therefore consider that those in europe who think that this line could be used to encourage strange movements outside the states or the authorities of the recipient countries who fear losing control over aid they consider their own are not right - from the perspective of sustainable and participatory local development.
some are as courageous and as constant as mrs louise mcvay, and i would mention the example of martí i pol, a catalan writer who died recently and who managed to overcome and live with his illness thanks to his supportive environment and the help of all the people around him, not only his family but also the whole of society in general, his town and his region.