this is even more true today, as the european union is expanding eastwards and russia is becoming the climate for the union in which we have the greatest potential for economic cooperation, but also for overcoming the numerous, even innumerable obstacles which, despite the disappearance of the security threat, still pose a regional threat, such as organised crime, trafficking in human beings and drug trafficking.
the northern dimension naturally means cooperation between all the countries in the region, the german, polish and baltic states, finland, sweden and the more distant countries, in areas such as environmental threats, nuclear safety, infrastructure and the prevention of infectious diseases, but our main problem is to integrate russia into this work.
as commissioner patten has already said, a great deal of cooperation has already been established in the field of energy cooperation.
in addition, progress has been made in environmental cooperation projects.
the northern dimension is a region with many challenges, not least those related to nuclear power and nuclear waste.
in addition, the gulf of finland is particularly vulnerable and for this reason, for example, the st. petersburg waste water treatment plant projects must be continued.
the barents sea is threatened by nuclear waste and the exploitation of the seabed.
the construction of a gas pipeline from the barents sea to germany also requires investment from the member states to combat the environmental damage caused by gas production.
strategically, energy cooperation is important.
the eu is energy dependent on gas from the east.
the eu's entire energy needs are to be met by lng in the coming decades.
investments in the energy sector will improve the security of gas supply and share responsibility for the sustainable use of energy resources.
western investment in environmental protection, nuclear safety and transport infrastructure is also an important area of cooperation.
in order to solve russia's environmental problems, some pilot projects have been implemented.
commissioner, you mentioned some successful projects and i would like to support you in that when you mentioned the funding model for this environmental programme.
it seems that now, at last, a way has been found whereby the eu, the various donor countries and the international financial institutions can all play their part in solving the massive environmental and nuclear safety problems.
russia is becoming for us - as mr suominen said - an increasingly important partner country, and - as mr seppänen said - energy is the key issue here.
this good idea and model of the northern dimension, which is plagued by confusion and disregard, now needs a central focus and that should be energy.
if it were to be made a priority in the next action programme, we could also act in other areas: environment, culture, education, health, transport and the information society.
as mr hautala said, a good example of this is the financing model for the environment programme.
energy security in the baltic states is a challenge for the future.
i would like to highlight two factors which influence the dynamics: enlargement and the environment.
at the same time, it would strengthen the euro-atlantic consensus on the environment, which has not been the best in recent years.
this could provide a new international basis for the eu's climate change policy, on which to base practical action.
the vulnerable arctic regions will be the first to suffer from climate change, which will eventually affect the whole of the eu, as far as the mediterranean.
the commission welcomes the opportunity offered by parliament to reiterate the importance which the community attaches to the conservation and protection of biodiversity in the marine environment.
this importance was already highlighted by parliament and the council in the sixth community environment programme, which aims, among other things, to achieve no further loss of biodiversity by 2010. the protection and conservation of wild fauna and flora is also one of the objectives defined in the european commission's communication 'towards a strategy for the protection and conservation of the marine environment'.
the commission considers that, given the potential impact on the marine environment, this type of technology should be used with extreme caution and ideally its potential impact should be assessed beforehand.
the commission will also ask independent scientific bodies, such as the international council for the exploration of the sea, to analyse current developments and the knowledge available on this subject, in order to obtain more information on the impact that the use of active low frequency sonar may have on the marine environment.
the question is what technology we choose and what its ecological cost is.
the u.s. navy has conducted an environmental impact assessment of the system, but reputable american environmental organizations consider it flawed.
it would be best if, on the basis of the commission statement heard today and on the basis of information obtained elsewhere, the environment committee of the european parliament took up the matter and drew up a report.
it is again a test of our ability or inability to stand united in defence of democracy, the rule of law and human rights in a world where the human rights situation has deteriorated significantly and the general political climate is worryingly cooling.
as with the first directive on access to environmental information, parliament's third reading has now seen the adoption of a compromise text which is very representative of parliament's position and which fully meets and even exceeds the minimum requirement laid down in the aarhus treaty.
in addition, public authorities are encouraged to promote public education on environmental issues, which is undoubtedly also in the public authorities' own interest, as it can improve the quality of participation.
when there is a risk of increasing environmental damage.
i think we have succeeded in this: the public can participate when decisions are actually being made about the environment, but a valuable instrument of participation is not inflated by asking the public to participate in routine decisions.
in particular, in order to ensure a conciliation result, the commission has undertaken in its statement annexed to the directive to submit a proposal for a directive in the first quarter of 2003 on the implementation of the aarhus convention in environmental matters as regards the right of appeal and the right to bring proceedings.
it has already been stated here that the directive gives the public a full right to participate in the decision-making process from the outset, in particular in the planning and implementation of programmes, the environmental impact assessment process and pollution prevention and reduction in general.
this naturally and rightly increases the transparency of the decision-making process and helps to increase public interest and awareness of environmental issues.
i think that on this basis we can expect that the public will be more inclined to take action on environmental matters.
indeed, reducing the sulphur content of fuels has been found to be perhaps even more important in reducing air pollution.
this is very important if we are to really clean up the exhaust emissions of cars even further.
but the more important reason for this reform is now that car manufacturers are constantly developing cleaner engines with ever lower emissions.
it is suspected that the production of unadulterated diesel fuel would be associated with increased co2 emissions.
however, i think that we could have adopted this reform now, because clean diesel will again compensate for the accelerated entry of new vehicles on the market and thus reduce co2 emissions.
the resources of business and entrepreneurship, combined with the expertise and legitimacy of the rest of civil society, can offer sustainable solutions to the problems of globalisation.
in this model, presented by secretary-general kofi annan in davos four years ago, the company commits to nine simple core principles in the areas of human rights, labour standards and the environment.
the key objectives are to reduce congestion, open up the interconnection points, improve safety and promote sustainable transport.
(fi) mr president, mrs redondo jiménez has produced a good and comprehensive report on the monitoring of interactions between forests and the environment, for which i would like to thank her.
the commission proposal combines two earlier regulations, one on the protection of forests against air pollution and the other on the fight against forest fires.
in its first opinion, it stated that the financial report on the commission proposal complied with the ceiling of heading 3 of the financial perspective and was without prejudice to other actions for the period 2003-06. however, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection increased this financial envelope from eur 52 million to eur 67 million.
the unrealistic approach was particularly evident in the measurement of biodiversity, i.e.
commitment to biodiversity, climate change, carbon sequestration and soil monitoring requires a wide range of actions.
such tasks include the development of a common database for forest ecological monitoring to provide real-world information on the state of forests.
at union level, responsibility should lie with the commission and the european environment agency.
the pse group also does not support the increase in the appropriations for the forest focus action plan approved by the environment committee.
we have had a very harsh experience of how the comfort-ticketed ships defy the standards of working conditions, safety and environmental protection.
first, by promoting the use of biofuels, the need for imported energy is reduced and thus the eu's dependence on external energy production, in particular oil imports.
secondly, biofuels are a much better alternative to petroleum products as a renewable energy source.
(fi) mr president, the directive under consideration is part of a package of legislation to promote the use of renewable energy sources in various sectors and is therefore part of the various measures implementing the community's sustainable development strategy adopted by the gothenburg european council in june 2001. the directive is particularly important because it is in the transport sector that the most disastrous developments have been so far.
transport accounts for more than 30% of the community's final energy consumption and is continuing to increase.
this trend will continue to intensify and therefore increase co2 emissions.
according to the commission's white paper, co2 emissions from transport are projected to increase by 50% between 1990 and 2010, with road transport as the main source of emissions, accounting for 84% of transport co2 emissions.
the white paper therefore calls for the reduction of the transport sector's oil dependence, which currently stands at 98%, to be reduced on ecological grounds by the use of alternative fuels such as biofuels.
promoting the use of biofuels in accordance with sustainable agricultural and forestry practices will create new opportunities for sustainable development in rural areas.
however, in order to ensure sustainable farming practices, clear environmental criteria must be established so that, for example, the use of the same area of cultivation for subsequent food production does not pose any risks.
while the primary responsibility for safeguarding pension systems lies with the member states, we are able to take action at union level to contribute to the sustainable financing of pension systems.
the directive will contribute to the development of supplementary pension schemes which are economically sustainable, provide the necessary capital for enterprises through investment and enable statutory schemes to better respond to the changing needs of individuals.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
in the case of detergents, this may sound a little too solemn, but when you think of the environmental impact, this is a very important everyday thing.
i believe that consumer behaviour will be the most important factor in the future in the environmental impact of detergents.
average is not enough when the right amount is crucial for the consumer and the environment.
however, the use of gaskets would have many environmental and consumer benefits: the number of packages would be reduced and significant transportation costs would be saved.
although the directive on consumer advice is now half-way through, i believe that the manufacturers of detergents can take voluntary action to increase consumer awareness and thus also reduce the amount of pollution.
(fi) mr president, the previous framework programme for energy ended at the end of last year.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
however, the energy sector is so capital-intensive that even increased resources will not solve the eu's energy security, security of supply, energy saving and environmental protection problems.
the common objectives set, for example in the field of renewable energy sources, are so ambitious that their achievement is decisively dependent on the member states.
the creation of a new specialised agency to coordinate energy cooperation is proposed.
(fi) mr president, it is astonishing that market forces have not been able to improve the energy efficiency of the fuels they use in combined heat and power generation on their own.
the directive is not only needed to ensure the functioning of the common energy market.
it is also needed to compel member states to channel resources towards the efficient use of fuels in the name of energy efficiency and environmental protection.
for example, a directive on the system of greenhouse gas emission allowance trading must not be incompatible with this directive.
the proposal for a directive on the promotion of cogeneration of electricity and heat is an important part of the eu's strategy for energy efficiency and energy saving.
co-production also contributes to the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions, as noted here.
in the longer term, a framework should be established to ensure the central role of high efficiency cogeneration in increasing energy efficiency and savings.
the amendments on micro-production, renewable energy sources and district cooling are important for technological progress.
for waste heat from a cogeneration plant, there is a possibility of a wider use than currently available.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, numerous environmental accidents, such as the recent accident of the prestige oil tanker off the coast of spain, have given impetus to the development of environmental liability legislation in the eu.
human health is inextricably linked to the environment in which we live.
environmental protection issues are therefore naturally close to the hearts of our citizens and hence also the priorities of our policies.
a third of the petitions received by the european parliament last year, some 1 700, were specifically concerned with environmental problems.
the commission proposal for a directive aims to ensure that the polluter pays for the costs of repairing environmental damage in the future.
the general aim of our amendment is to clarify the legal interpretation of the directive and to strike the necessary balance between industry and environmental actors.
the international conventions on nuclear safety are being renewed and will include corresponding environmental liability provisions.
perhaps then, when the results of these voluntary agreements are analysed, they will lead to new legislation that goes beyond the present state of affairs in environmental matters.
(fi) mr president, mr commissioner, the report now before us will simplify and improve substantially the environmental legislation in the community.
the feedback to date on environmental agreements has been that a significant proportion of environmental and civil society actors have been suspicious of voluntary agreements, even when the agreement itself has been voluntary but the agreement itself binding.
on the other hand, the industry has been hoping to increase voluntary agreements to achieve flexibility and thus hopefully also positive environmental outcomes.
the report takes the view that voluntary agreements can be applied where the impact can be assessed in a uniform manner and the added value to society can be measured by sustainable development indicators.
these conditions ensure that the agreement produces a better outcome for the environment and society than legislative instruments.
it is a sensible proposal that we have achieved and it is important for the environment.
the bureaucracy has been a brake on reforms, and in general the slowdown, the kaliningrad issue, environmental problems and problems of mass media have been draining the momentum.
the economic stimulus would be energy cooperation, but little has been done in this area.
in such extreme conditions, unarmed ships are an environmental bomb like the prestige.
i am pleased that the environmental issues have been raised by both the commission and the council.
there are, in addition to the ones you mentioned, many other unresolved environmental issues.
issues of maritime safety, the environment and human rights must be on the agenda.
in addition to the wealth accumulated by the few, attention should be given to the management of the common wealth, represented by, for example, common lands and territories, oceans, a large proportion of forests, biodiversity, the global climate system, public spaces in cities, public libraries, schools and hospitals, and scientific and traditional knowledge.
(fi) mr president, i fully agree with the previous speaker, mr della vedova, that the greatest challenge to economic sustainability is the ageing of europe, which must be addressed while its economic effects are still manageable.
(fi) mr president, the liberalisation of the energy market has been an ideological project.
when all the additional energy needs of the eu are met by gas and when gas is imported from the east, those who need gas should contribute to the investment costs of new gas fields.
i was working on the report on nuclear safety in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
nuclear power may be cheap on the spot market, but we are not sure that the prices fully take into account the costs of decommissioning and disposal of nuclear waste, which extend over hundreds and perhaps thousands of years.
our group would have liked to secure public and public-interest energy services in the context of these liberalisation and privatisation directives.
(fi) mr president, the energy policy we are discussing today must be seen as a whole, which has a significant impact on the functioning of the energy market in europe.
the transeuropean energy networks are improving the backbone and skeleton of the market.
finally, a compromise has been reached on energy networks, which provides the necessary flexibility to amend annex iii, while ensuring adequate parliamentary scrutiny.
the liberalisation of the energy markets is not a scientific breakthrough, at least from a nordic point of view, but it is a good thing that they are being liberalised.
the key to liberalising the energy market is to guarantee unhindered access to the networks.
the committee on energy, research and technology (cern) has tabled an opinion on the proposal.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has been very active on this issue.
the committee on the environment also stresses the importance of neighbouring countries joining the same rules, since such tankers are sailing close to our coasts even if they do not call at eu ports, as john purvis also pointed out.
i am concerned that at this stage we have not been able to adopt the environment committee's proposal to include in an article that we should require ice reinforcement.
i have assumed that we actually want to improve the environmental situation in the coastal states.
i would like the commission to follow up the environmental impact of the directive in a frank and comprehensive manner.
it may be that things get better for one part of the environment while they get worse for another.
in this way, we create the conditions for the integrity of societies, for sustainable development and for faith in the future.
regulations on mesh size, fishing times and gear allowances help to regulate fishing and preserve the marine environment.
it is also very important for the marine environment that the support for floating fish factories be ended.
for eu action on the marine environment to be effective, both better enforcement and fewer exceptions are needed, as well as more effective international cooperation.
finally, commissioner, i would urge you to take a firm stand against helcom, the baltic sea commission for the environment.
mr president, the marine environment on the surface is still very poorly understood.
it would strengthen the euro-atlantic consensus on the environment.
in addition to oil damage, harmful noise from equipment used for mapping natural resources in the soil should be taken into account as pollution.
the liberal group, which is otherwise relatively satisfied with the common position, is concerned, however, that the council's position would allow less scope for taking account of environmental considerations than the existing case law.
(fi) mr president, as has already been said in several speeches here, it is important to improve the current directive on packaging waste.
as the rapporteur has pointed out, economic and ecological considerations must be taken into account in this context.
so i would point out that when wood is put forward for recycling, these specific ecological and economic considerations are not necessarily taken into account.
the 15% target for wood is a small target, but in a country like finland, for example, the environmental damage of transport is far greater than the benefits of recycling this wood.
it is much more ecologically sensible to burn this wood as a source of energy in private homes.
however, this is not the case if, for example, the charges are based solely on weight and do not take into account the environmental impact of each material.
the objective of recycling 55% by weight of packaging waste and the related obligation to take into account the environmental costs and benefits of collecting and recycling packaging materials means that material-specific obligations should not be unilaterally increased, even if this would speed up the achievement of a 55% recycling rate.
i would like to point out that the report deals with reuse and, in particular, with the comparison of the ecological benefits of reuse and recycling.
it is precisely the real environmental impact and the assessment of the functioning of the market that should be the focus of the report.
emissions trading is not a market mechanism.
it redistributes emissions among polluters, but does not reduce emissions.
when the system only covers co2 emissions, the release of other pollutants into the atmosphere is free.
emissions trading is done on exchanges, and there is always speculation involved in the exchange.
the emissions trading directive is a raw fruit that should have been ripened longer.
it has been said here on several occasions that after the first reading it was hard to believe that we would get to this point, that we would have an emissions trading directive which is so sensible and rational in its content that it can be accepted from different points of view.
we must remember that this is only one of many ways in which we are working to reduce greenhouse gases.
even theoretical research on the effects of emissions trading is only a name.
when we received the commission's proposal a few years ago, it became clear that there were huge gaps in the proposal on which the european economy, competition and environmental strategy were to be built.
there is no assessment of the effects of enlargement, no guidelines on the accounting status of emission allowances in companies, no information on vat, not even a strategy against serious market disturbances and speculative attacks, no precise information on member states' emissions, let alone those of companies, no presentation of the rights of appeal.
instead, there is a need to establish eu rules on how to convert the emission credits from these project mechanisms into tradable allowances without compromising the climate change imperative.
a particular problem in the context of emissions trading was combined heat and power (chp) and process emissions.
member states may take into account the potential for reducing process emissions, which in practice means that the best european steel mills can obtain full allowances and do not have to bear extra costs in the highly competitive world steel market.
that will reduce the risk of carbon leakage and increase the real opportunity to combat climate change.
(fi) mr president, many of my colleagues have raised the idea of incorporating environmental objectives into public procurement criteria.
however, this is entirely in line with the idea, also contained in the treaty, that environmental policy is integrated into all eu policies.
parliament has done a good job of incorporating sustainable development into production legislation.
however, this supply-side effect needs to be supported by the demand side as well and can be influenced by public procurement where the justification for including an environmental criterion in the call for tenders can be put forward.
the reduction of congestion and the need to improve the functioning of the freight transport system, especially from the environmental point of view, are essential in the face of the increase in transport volumes.
(fi) mr president, at the end of last year the delegation of the parliament's conciliation committee agreed on the final content of the second pillar of the aarhus convention, the directive on public participation in environmental decision-making.
the commission has still not adopted the proposal for a directive on the right of appeal and the right of bringing proceedings in environmental matters, even though the last quarter of the year is already beginning, which means that the proposal is six months late.
the development of the northernmost region of the union is overshadowed by long distances, sparse population, a cold climate and an ageing population due to extreme migration.
mr president, i am glad that mr pomés ruiz has noted in his report the special consideration and support needed for northern finland and sweden, where the population density is extremely low and the climate is harsh, and which are a long way from european markets.
the commission has proposed an eu strategy and action plan for climate change in the context of development cooperation, in which support would be given to partner countries for cdm project preparation activities, including capacity-building.
the communication on climate change in the context of development cooperation also explores the possibility of funding cdm projects in the category of least-developed countries.
assistance can also be provided from the budget line 'environment in developing countries and tropical forests', for which cdm activities will be one of the priorities.
we, for our part, want to emphasize the rights of prisoners of conscience and the right to a healthy environment.
i would like to mention one of the basic mechanisms for stability and peace, the clean environment.
unfortunately, the international community is not even aware of the environmental damage that is taking place in the west bank.
the over-harvesting of water, the untreated sewage being dumped into jordan, and the uncontrolled dumping of municipal waste have led to unfathomable health risks and water shortages.
the west bank environmental project is a multicultural and multidisciplinary project that aims to address key issues that threaten the health and well-being of the region's inhabitants.
it is no exaggeration to say that the eu is currently the only actor in the world that could provide a political forum for efforts like the west bank environmental project to build stability and peace through the actions of the people of the region.
without voluntary action such as the west bank environmental project, all the other eu work to implement the middle east peace plan will be in vain.
the prestige accident ten months ago has caused an exceptionally large economic and environmental disaster.
we must also develop the assessment of transboundary environmental impacts, which is an important tool, particularly in protecting the seas.
the eu's membership of the arctic council would strengthen the euro-atlantic environmental consensus and provide the eu with a significant forum for the protection of, inter alia, the marine life of the north.
(fi) mr president, commissioner, the european union's growing energy needs will be met in the near future by natural gas.
responsibility for maintaining the security of energy supply falls primarily within the scope of national energy policy.
the security of energy supply requires that the specific circumstances of each member state be taken into account.
it is also important to ensure the diversity of energy sources and the equitable distribution of energy suppliers in order to improve energy security.
i would also like to point out that the promotion of local renewable energy increases security of supply, reduces dependence on energy imports and also creates jobs.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, in the field of energy policy, the union's support is needed for the transeuropean energy network, the intelligent energy programme, sustainable energy systems and nuclear safety projects.
the union has set ambitious targets to promote the co-production of renewable energy sources and electricity and heat.
it is regrettable that the budget for energy research has been cut in order to achieve the objectives.
supporting the use of local renewable energy sources in a diversified manner will improve energy security and reduce dependence on imports.
transport policy must start from the development of a diversified transport network, the elimination of congestion, the improvement of safety and the promotion of sustainable transport.
(fi) mr president, i would like to draw attention to the excellent report by mr jan andersson on adequate and sustainable pensions.
i think it is a good and positive thing that the environment and fair competition are being brought together in the energy market.
common minimum levels of energy taxation are necessary and the polluter pays principle is important, as long as we remember to take into account the effects on competition and employment.
the commission has also proposed that the member states should be able to apply the principle of subsidiarity to all energy sources, including renewable energy sources, and to all energy sources, including fossil fuels.
in this way, both consumers and industry can be guided by economic incentives to use environmentally friendly energy.
although this directive does not directly address hydrogen, among other things, it is a good and important source of energy for the future, which may eventually replace oil, especially for transport.
these fuels, such as peat, which is important in my country, are not relevant to the functioning of the internal market, but at local level they can be very important and necessary sources of energy and employers.
energy taxes are already widely used in finland and other nordic countries, so even shorter transitional periods would not be a problem for the nordic countries.
the council has expressed its commitment to the introduction of instruments to decouple economic growth from energy consumption.
while meeting the needs of the member states, the energy tax offers the opportunity to reduce the taxation of labour and employment and to provide an efficient and precise means of steering the environment in the right direction.
taxation of energy products is a long-needed link linking the components of sustainable development.
i would also like to mention the link between energy taxation and the recently finalised emissions trading directive.
independent research shows that addressing the climate change challenge is most cost-effective in the macroeconomic context if the right level of reduction target is set for non-ets sectors.
the cheese-mound method will not do that, but a comprehensive energy tax system is needed.
ensure that each sector is subject to either energy taxation or emissions trading.
europe urgently needs an ambitious energy taxation system.
however, it is important that good legislation is enacted at european level, especially in areas such as environmental protection where problems do not know national boundaries.
but how does it benefit us or the environment if member states apply european legislation only when it does not conflict with other interests?
the remedy proposed in the report, namely greater transparency and multilateralism, is the only way to correct the shortcomings and prevent arms transfers that threaten human rights, regional stability or sustainable development.
esa satellites, on the other hand, observe important environmental conditions, help with transport and map the earth's near space.
forests are an important natural resource whose sustainable management is of great importance not only for biodiversity and ecological balance but also for our economy and well-being.
it is important to establish a common knowledge base on the state of european forests and the environmental pollution that threatens them.
the compromise also includes the fact that the programme will end at the end of 2006. the commission should submit a new proposal to continue the work on protecting forests against air pollution and other forest-degrading phenomena.
forest fire management activities shall be carried out through regional programmes in order to address the issues that are most relevant to each region and to ensure that the management activities are appropriate to the type of forest and the type of climate.
this action plan rightly supports the national forestry policies of the member states, taking into account the ecological characteristics of the outermost regions of the eu.
in this respect, i would like to echo the views of mr wachtmeister, who said that the responsibility for the sustainable use of forests and decision-making in forestry matters lies first and foremost with the forest owner.
the fact that we can hopefully conclude the directive at first reading shows that the european union is serious about working to slow down climate change.
the kyoto protocol establishes obligations for parties to report emissions.
the decision to report in the eu 10 years ago has been an important basis for reliably identifying negative emissions trends and creating a framework for reversing them.
the current reporting does not correspond in its breakdown and precision to the sectoral breakdown of the emissions trading directive adopted in the eu in the summer, for example.
in the so-called compromise package, it was agreed between the rapporteur and the shadow rapporteurs of parliament and the council that member states should establish national inventory systems to assess emissions of greenhouse gases by source from human activities as soon as possible and in any event by the end of 2005. compliance with the kyoto agreements both the setting of absolute targets and the monitoring of their achievement will of course depend to a large extent on how the inventory system is put into operation.
it is of course regrettable that there are no guarantees that it will be available when the first initial allocation of emissions trading is carried out in the member states.
i would like to make one small request in this connection: under the kyoto protocol, emissions in the first kyoto period are to be considered as an average over five years.
i would also like to see the community, for example the european environment agency, publishing emission trends as a five-year average.
this would provide, for example, a basis for estimating the distance of the community and the member states from the target for emissions due to annual variations in temperature and rainfall.
however, it is clear that in order to achieve a sustainable control of animal diseases, vaccines must also be used.
the union has already stepped up its energy cooperation with russia, as we heard the commissioner say, which is essential if we are to replace the depleted energy resources of the north sea and avoid becoming exclusively dependent on the energy resources of the middle east.
however, emissions from passenger cars are a significant source of greenhouse gas emissions and therefore it is necessary to act in such a way that, where possible, consumers are guided to choose products that are environmentally sustainable and cost-effective.
for example, the taxation of fuels should take account of environmental friendliness by reducing the taxation of such fuels.
in the case of taxation of cars, environmental friendliness can also be taken into account either in the form of reductions in potential user charges or tax relief for eco-friendly accessories.
the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy agrees that research funding in the eu needs to be increased substantially and on a rapid schedule.
madam president, on 27 october 2003, after more than six years of negotiation, the council adopted the energy tax directive.
however, the energy tax directive is still based on the principle of minimum rates only.
three parliamentary committees, the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism have broadly supported the commission's proposals for that reason.
the second item is the alignment of the present proposal with the terms of the energy tax directive, in particular as far as the definition of commercial diesel and tax rates are concerned.
finally, the council, according to the minutes concerning the adoption of the energy tax directive, is clearly committed to pursuing its work on the commercial diesel proposal.
the commission has two main reasons for presenting its proposal: environmental protection and fair competition in the internal market.
first, environmental impacts should be considered in a broader context.
the environmental benefits of the proposal are questionable.
moreover, the candidate countries have already done a great deal to adapt to the current minimum tax rate, and the relatively small increase envisaged in the energy tax directive may already cause difficulties for some countries.
the commission justifies this tax treatment on the basis of environmental considerations.
it should also be borne in mind that european manufacturers are currently the market leaders in diesel technology in a competitive environment.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has prepared an opinion.
it would be short-sighted to pursue the kyoto targets at the expense of those who create jobs, unless we first make full use of the opportunities for reducing emissions from transport.
diesel cars do consume less fuel and produce less carbon dioxide emissions, but they do have a lot of benefits.
however, it must be remembered that diesel cars produce more nitrogen oxides and particulate matter emissions, which pose a serious public health risk.
the inclusion of exploration services in the scope of the directive is problematic, especially in areas sensitive to maritime safety and the environment.
the safety problem is compounded by the need for many components and subsystems to work together in a complex environment.
(fi) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the problem of waste is one of the subjects of greatest interest to citizens, because it touches them directly.
the waste management and the promotion of recycling and reuse of waste can have a direct impact on the daily life and well-being of citizens and the comfort of their living environment.
the explosion of waste in the future is both an environmental and a health problem for the enlarged european union and its citizens.
however, in many member states, the provisions on waste management, waste prevention, recycling and treatment have never been implemented in practice and national legislation is often deficient.
i am one of those fortunate citizens whose country has a national waste strategy that is ambitious enough and well-managed.
however, the finnish national waste problems cannot be ignored by the use of the olanko method, because, like environmental disasters, waste knows no borders.
the commission's proposal to clarify the provisions on shipments of waste and to establish common rules for the european waste market is necessary.
the authorities need clear legislation to improve the efficiency of waste recycling and to develop waste management in a more environmentally friendly way.
it is also of particular importance that the minimum requirements for environmental standards for third countries follow the logic of community legislation and are not based on any vague guidelines.
i am also concerned about the welfare of the marine areas of the arctic and the environmental risks they pose.
i think it is important to include in the scope of this proposal the eu's territorial waters which need protection from the threats posed by waste transport.
it is important to record that ships and other waterborne equipment can be classified as waste.
– mr president, i would clarify that some amendments voted by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy have been withdrawn, as shown on the list.
we also need energy cooperation, which is the strongest and most important cooperation.
i think we should combine our two transport networks, telecommunications networks and energy networks.
the promotion of democracy, good governance, human rights and sustainable development in neighbouring countries is in everyone's interest.
the northern dimension is of particular importance for certain priority areas of the union where the potential for added value is greatest, such as the economy, business, infrastructure, human resources, education, culture, scientific research, health, the environment, nuclear safety, natural resources, crossborder cooperation and regional development, and justice and home affairs.
concrete activities will have to be carried out in the five major priority areas already mentioned - economy and infrastructure; education, culture, research and health; environment, nuclear safety and natural resources; crossborder cooperation and regional development; justice and home affairs - in a spirit of cooperation, based on participation open to all, subsidiarity and complementarity, an efficient allocation of tasks and comprehensive coordination and control.
finally, the new action plan will contribute to the sustainable development of the arctic region and the indigenous peoples living there.
the commission also continued to support the implementation of the first projects under the northern dimension environmental partnership, the signing of the agreement on the multilateral nuclear and environmental programme in the russian federation and the development of crossborder cooperation in the context of the preparation of the first neighbourhood programmes following the commission's communication of july 2003. we should not forget the large number of projects already completed or still in progress and the concrete initiatives of the commission in the framework of community programmes which also contribute to the realization of the northern dimension.
the union is occasionally alarmed by the risks posed by nuclear waste and nuclear power plants in north-western russia, but the tacis programme has a considerable amount of unused funds for nuclear safety projects, some eur 180 million.
so why are they not used to clean up marine nuclear waste in litsa guba and murmansk - by which i mean the reactors of decommissioned nuclear submarines and the nuclear waste on the beaches - or to ensure the safety of the power stations in sosnovibor and kanta bay?
the northern dimension of environmental cooperation, coordinated by the ebrd, is a good instrument.
this means developing the economy by exploiting the opportunities offered by trade and the sustainable use of natural resources.
in the northern regions, environmental issues are also central.
environmental cooperation must be continued to improve nuclear safety, and the arctic nature also requires special attention.
as has been said here, the enlargement of the eu will increase the weight of the baltic sea, and hopefully also the possibilities for closer cooperation to enhance its ecological and political future.
let me specifically express my appreciation to the rapporteur and to the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for all their hard work on this important proposal.
i appreciate the difficult issues the environment committee had to address – in particular regarding ethics and other related issues.
the parliament risks weakening the council's common position on the environment, as is also the case with commissioner bolkestein's speech.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the areas of the environment, the environment and the environment.
there is no sustainable justification for such membership fee reductions.
thirdly, the commission's approach does not give the eu a sufficient starting point for sustainable development.
the only sustainable solution is that the system applies equally to all road traffic from the outset.
i would remind you, however, of the growing role of transport as a source of co2 emissions.
although the automotive industry has done and is doing a lot of work, with eu support, to develop low-emission cars, it is justified to introduce tolling schemes specifically to reduce emissions.
increasing cogeneration is one of the best ways to improve energy efficiency and reduce greenhouse gas emissions from this production.
let us fight emissions with science, efficiency and moderation.
our energy economy is very well documented, diverse and efficient.
i am a strong supporter of combined heat and power as an environmental and energy policy instrument for increasing energy efficiency and security of supply.
the eu is highly dependent on energy imports, which creates uncertainty and increases the risk of energy supply disruption.
this would contribute to the achievement of the targets for the use of renewable energy sources and the reduction of emissions.
in any event, the price of energy is expected to rise on the market as a result of emissions trading, to the detriment of users.
i believe that the capricious and unpredictable nature of the disease should be taken into account, so that those who have it are not so vulnerable to the loss of their jobs and their social environment.
it is a privilege for the european parliament to have access to her knowledge, energy and experience.