mr president, i am the representative of a coastal and atlantic region of france, and therefore of europe, which has just been affected by the pollution of the prestige.
i would like to say that people are really appalled by what is happening today, and that is mainly because this pollution is of a new kind, because it is chronic and because we do not know what it is called.
i consider it a waste of taxpayers' money to give subsidies to capitalist enterprises under the pretext of promoting employment, when these enterprises simply incorporate the sums received into their profits and into the dividends paid to their shareholders.
in this context, the important role which parliament and the commission are called upon to play has two aspects: on the one hand, to have an even clearer view of the situation of fundamental rights in the member states in order to take the necessary actions and decisions in this area in a targeted and precise manner within the framework of the powers conferred by the treaties on the european institutions; the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
although rail is a sustainable means of transport, it is cheaper than road in terms of external costs, it is more environmentally friendly and safer, despite all these advantages, there has been a decline in freight transport over the last twenty years.
in conclusion, i would like to recall what i consider to be a twofold challenge: that of sustainable development and revitalization in a field of activity, rail, where the actors count, with their knowledge and skills, whether they are operators or employees.
i think it is necessary to say first of all, for all those who have any fears or reservations, that europe needs the railway because it will have considerable environmental problems in the years to come - and public opinion would not forgive us for not having developed alternative modes of transport to the road - and secondly because europe is an opportunity for the railway and not a constraint or a threat.
the environment, because the road and the airplane pollute more than the railway; traffic, with the congestion of the road network and the air corridors; and finally, the safety of people, because the train is a safer means of transport than the road, on which tens of thousands of people die every year in europe.
an example of total liberalisation in transport is maritime traffic, with its repeated ecological and human catastrophes.
i regret this as a railway activist for reasons of both environmental protection and public safety.
it will therefore be necessary to carry out an assessment of the benefits that can be expected from each its project in terms of market share, traffic development, and also environmental, safety and social aspects.
i would then like to turn to the spring summit and sustainable development.
i agree, but what are the indicators for the environment, the economy, the social indicators?
it is therefore necessary to draw up in thessaloniki a genuine list of indicators and a strategy for assessing and putting sustainable development into perspective.
but where are the environmental responsibilities?
i hope we will not be in for any unpleasant surprises, because as you know, the citizens of europe, of galicia and france, are waiting impatiently, if not desperately, for europe to come to their aid, to put in place strict rules, clear rules, to ensure the safety of maritime transport and to prevent pollution.
i am sorry to say to you again - and i am also addressing the president of the commission - that you are off the subject, because the spring summit had a specific objective, namely to measure progress or backwardness in sustainable development through the union's policies.
so what i would like your spring reports to do is to present real policies, which take account of the environment to avoid destroying it and which also create really sustainable jobs.
- the next item is the report (a5-0452/2002) by mr mantovani, on behalf of the committee on employment and social affairs, on the communication from the commission to the council, the european parliament, the economic and social committee and the committee of the regions on the future of health care and care for the elderly: ensuring accessibility, quality and financial sustainability (com (2001) 723 - c5-0163/2002 - 2002/2071 (cos)).
- mr president, we will not vote in favour of this report because the rapporteur insists on the need for financial sustainability, which means, of course, that the level of expenditure must be limited in advance.
clearly, these issues are vital in view of the general elections which are scheduled for mid 2004. we also cannot hope to deliver sustainable change without good donor coordination.
- madam president, i would like to join in the congratulations that have been addressed to our colleague, mr dagmar roth-behrendt, for all the energy and determination she has shown in getting her report adopted.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the suggestions of sustainable development that are being put forward so that thousands of women and men do not seek to flee their countries to escape poverty are nonsense.
from sustainable development to sustainable development, the gap between the predatory imperialist countries and the poor countries keeps widening.
our partnership will extend well beyond trade and politics, and will be wide-ranging, covering areas as diverse as cooperation in the fields of science, education, energy, tourism, the environment and industry.
their presence, together with the corruption within the lebanese political class, contributes to maintaining a climate of instability and a dire economic situation.
there is still the capacity to take risks, to operate in an unstable environment and to provide financing for much-needed projects, even in times of crisis, as you demonstrated in the russian crisis.
firstly, although the ebrd is not an institution of the european union and has very specific relations with the european union, we believe it is important to be able to use this instrument to promote, outside the european union, the principles and strategy that the european union has adopted in both lisbon and gothenburg, in particular to continue promoting employment, social policy, the environment, innovation and the knowledge economy for sustainable development.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a serious accident at work.
the report i have been asked to present to this house today focuses on what i believe is the most important aspect of aquaculture: sustainable development.
in many cases, certain aquaculture activities are considered to be polluting or to be detrimental to the environment.
on the contrary, this sector is particularly and unfortunately too often directly affected by external pollution: nitrates in fresh water, degassing, hydrocarbons, chemicals, toxic algae in seawater.
that is why i have focused my report on sustainable development, which is structured around four concepts: environmental, social, economic and governance.
this disaster, which began with pollution of the galician coast, also affected the french atlantic coast, including the arcachon basin, a major centre of oyster farming.
research must therefore be equipped with the means to provide answers to the key questions arising, such as the impact on the environment, the reduction of the use of fishmeal in the diet, the development of less carnivorous species, the control of diseases, the genetic risks to natural populations linked to escapement and the development of new products.
it is an activity that is very closely linked (you have to know it well to understand it) to the environment, these are extremely subtle balances.
consider that in enclosed environments, such as coastal ponds, the mediterranean, lake thau, the mere painting of boats can disturb the environment.
that's why the sea farmers are doing sustainable development without knowing it all along.
although the aim is to develop the market economy in these former communist countries, the social, environmental and public service dimensions are not sacrificed.
in view of the johannesburg summit, in view of the provisions of the international criminal court and the cotonou agreements, in the face of this scandal which, i believe, is damaging the planet's ecosystem, in the face of the reign of poaching and human rights violations, i believe that the european union must ask the un security council to open proceedings against those responsible, in particular by freezing assets and conducting investigations into pogroms and other violence against the people.
more generally, i would say that in this fight we are all fighting together against the violation of the physical integrity of individuals and are working for peace and sustainable development: environmental protection, social equity and good governance are the key words.
beyond the climate hazards, famines are the result of structural policies, including agricultural and trade policies, which have led farmers in poor countries to produce for export rather than for local consumption.
the countries suffering from famine that refuse to feed their populations with potentially harmful products, or those that offer only genetically modified seeds to help poor people, whose consequences for the environment and biodiversity will prove to be disastrous?
only local production and intra-regional trade are sustainable and can guarantee access to food for all.
the greens believe that only sustainable development of food production based on the needs of local people and fair trade between north and south, that is, trade that pays its fair price, reflecting the social and environmental costs of production, resources and workers in poor countries, can eradicate hunger in the world.
the fight against poverty requires that developing countries gain the right to set their own priorities, their own strategies to support sustainable food production by mobilising their natural and human resources, local know-how, investing in the structural transformation of their economies, and also benefiting from legitimate guaranteed prices.
there is an urgent need to encourage local agriculture and food production, by promoting access to land, water and biodiversity resources.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
- after supporting the directive on public access to environmental information, we now support public participation in environmental programmes.
this text will have the difficult task of making decision-making more transparent and involving local people in projects that affect their health and the environment.
the obligation for environmental authorities to inform the public of the decisions taken and the reasons for these decisions is imperative.
this measure, which increases the number of diesel grades on the market, will pose significant logistical problems without any real environmental added value.
from this point of view, porto alegre iii is no longer simply the anti-davos rally of porto alegre i. they are citizens who are protesting, who deny the inevitability of a globalisation that is destined to always enrich the richest, to leave the poorest on the sidelines, to destroy the environment; they reject a globalisation whose institutions and rules are strong and uncompromising in defending the economic and commercial interests of the powerful and their companies, but weak when it comes to defending social rights, defending the kyoto protocol or fighting tax havens.
it is a choice between the commodification of all activities, natural resources, genes, and, on the other hand, the idea of universal access to global public goods, water, health, medicine, energy, education and public services.
and today, through the wto and the gats, these countries are sorry to see that we ourselves, the european union, are calling for the liberalization of water, postal services and energy in their countries.
the last thing: these same multinationals are desperate to reclaim sustainable development and the common goods of humanity, water, air and energy.
the requirement of traceability, the refusal of social dumping, respect for the environment or the sanctioned protection of applications of origin must not be treated, mr president, as secondary concerns which could be postponed.
it is about food security for the countries of the south, the quality of food, water and soil, the recognition of regional products, the maintenance of landscapes and the sustainable development of rural areas.
now, with agriculture, we are negotiating on quality, the environment, welfare, animals, so cultural!
such an intensity of dialogue should of course be promoted with the greatest number of third countries to support economic development and to promote the ecological values and democratic clauses of the european union.
the european union's negotiations, which are very voluntary in terms of trade and, in our view, excessive in terms of liberalization, should now also be structured in a balanced way around human rights and the environment.
in the fisheries sector, the union's interests for chile must be balanced and only have meaning and a future in the context of sustainable development and management of fisheries resources.
but far from being an obstacle to the conclusion of the agreement under consideration, these observations - we stress - are a condition for its relevance and its sustainability.
the greens want this 21st century agreement to become the beacon of a new trade based on fair trade, respect for the environment and human rights.
we are talking about giving impetus to a transport policy, taking into account new elements, as has been said, in a clearer and more precise way, such as the aspect of combining growth and sustainable development, that is, the incorporation of quality of life and environmental protection as also essential factors in the design of our policies.
we must insist on the maximum ceiling for compensation funds in the event of pollution or on proposals to promote with the union states changes in the field of international maritime law, which is based on principles that are totally obsolete and belong to the 19th century and not to the 21st.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
who would dare to speak of catastrophism or of the ill omen of an environmentalist charlatan about the state of our planet's environment, in the face of who studies which estimate that 800 000 deaths a year in europe are attributable to car exhaust fumes.
the only thing left to do is to try to stem the current environmental crisis.
what was an emergency in the fifteen is now an imperative in the twenty-five, and any transport policy which does not incorporate the sustainable development aspect will be lost in its own race.
far from the traditions of the past, this new transport system will have to integrate environmental requirements into its studies from the outset, place the user at the heart of its definitions and associate him with ngos in all its reflections.
the committee on the environment has in its report noted all the effects of these nuisances on human health.
so far from giving up, madam commissioner, in the face of this announced ecological disaster, the union must make choices to change the course of transport and make all agreements and programmes, and god knows how many, subject to environmental criteria.
it sets out priorities for this rebalancing: finding suitable tariffs, combating bottlenecks and environmental degradation, and promoting the role of users.
the report by my colleague izquierdo collado brings a series of improvements to be supported in respect of the environment.
all this because the logic of the 'any market', which was based on a 1992 white paper which gave rise to directives on competitiveness and liberalisation, has led to neglect of security, the environment, social and spatial planning.
i support him, of course, when he says that transport is a strategic sector for spatial planning and for economic and social cohesion, and when he talks about the serious environmental consequences.
he says that sustainable development must be the foundation of european transport policy, and i agree with him.
i would like to mention, although it has nothing to do with the white paper, training, because it is knowledge that will determine performance; research, because innovation will be a factor in our growth; and transport, because the quality of transport will determine the sustainability of our development.
- madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, among its main objectives, the white paper proposes to give priority to sustainable development, to relaunch maritime and rail transport, to promote intermodality, to anticipate the impact of flows generated by enlargement and to improve the accessibility of peripheral regions.
new vehicles emit up to 95% less emissions than vehicles manufactured before 1970. you can't see this if you look at it through a dark green lens.
by eliminating vehicle registration taxes throughout europe and by reducing the tax on clean cars, we can dramatically improve the state of the environment.
perhaps, in order to avoid the digital divide and not break the continuity of eeurope, it is necessary to say that 3g services must be part of a global logic, but important issues of consumer health and environmental quality must also be added.
so there is no problem for the competitive environment.
three factors are identified: a stable, harmonised and transparent regulatory environment, taking into account the interests of consumers; the proactive supporting role that the union can provide; and, thirdly, long-term initiatives, taking into account what has happened in the 3g communications sector, particularly in the run-up to enlargement.
finally, the installation of 3g relay antennas will have to be carried out in a manner which respects the environment and urban planning.
in conclusion, regulatory stability will allow for the harmonious development of this technology if the european union takes into account social and environmental parameters as well as economic parameters.
this is true of gender equality, progress in social harmonization, the maintenance and development of public services, the implementation of sustainable development, etc.
a climate of international tension is always harmful to the world economy and this is not the least of the outcomes expected by the terrorist organizations at the origin of these tensions.
the fact is that the aim of this spring summit is to articulate three policies - economic, social and sustainable development - whereas the treaties do not provide the legal bases for action in all three areas at once.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i must admit that i was a little disappointed, because i was expecting to see evidence that the european union had really integrated sustainable development.
in gothenburg, however, the union took a big step in this direction by announcing its willingness to measure sustainable development through the spring councils.
sustainable development is not part of the european project, a chapter among others, as it has been presented.
sustainable development implies a new approach to all our european policies, which would integrate the social and environmental aspects, as well as the economy.
my question is: have you analysed the union's policies in the light of these new criteria and, in particular, environmental criteria?
we would like to know how environmental and social issues are reflected in your proposals.
more environmental damage?
we now know the financial cost of these social and environmental degradations.
the european union will only emerge from the present crisis by changing its policies in the way that the citizens expect, and only a project of socially and ecologically sustainable development will restore the dynamism, optimism and confidence that seemingly are sorely lacking in both the council and the commission.
- mr president, the white paper on transport is undoubtedly an event to which we owe a great deal to commissioner loyola de palacio in that, for the first time, it does not simply lay down market rules but offers us a voluntary strategy in favour of a transport policy, of sustainable mobility, more favourable to non-polluting modes of transport.
the fact that this sector, which is essential for social life, is based on competition and the pursuit of maximum profit leads to waste, aberrations, insecurity for users, if not to disasters.
i therefore voted against a report which fails to address the serious problems of spatial planning, the environment and social issues.
transport policy is essential both for economic development and for the preservation of the environment and the living environment, which requires a long-term vision.
in a nutshell, it concluded that there is no major concern, from a radiological point of view, either in terms of inducing short-term cancer, or in terms of a wide impact on the environment.
in order to ensure sustainability over the years, the commission approved in december 2002 the european commission mine action strategy and multiannual indicative programming for the period 2002-2004. this document was prepared on the basis of strong coordination with the member states, the united nations, the us, and the wider mine action community.
we are already engaged in such broader clearance activities in countries such as laos, kosovo and afghanistan, where the apl problem is inextricably connected to unexploded ordnance pollution.
the new armor can only be penetrated by kinetic energy weapons.
these are essential for us, for example, to prevent climate change.
i do not think it is unusual for europe to be concerned about the health of the european forestry heritage as a whole, since it is true that there are no frontiers for air pollution, for plant health risks, or for possible natural or accidental disasters.
the forest will no longer be a matter for agriculture but will become a new component of environmental policy.
are we moving towards a common environmental policy (cep) to destroy the cap?
to engage at community level in a policy which is rejected by some of our member states, in other words to impose at european level choices which our respective peoples are reluctant to accept or even hostile to, is unworthy of a democratic environment.
- the community's policy of cooperation and development is designed to promote the sustainable development and economic expansion of developing countries, their integration into the world economy and the fight against poverty.
their aim is to achieve maximum profitability, without regard to social or environmental consequences.
it is true that, even if it is the metallurgy and not specifically the steel industry, the example is instructive: this highly polluting company will eliminate thousands of jobs without assuming any social or environmental responsibility.
can we leave industrial and economic development strategies, thousands of jobs in the hands of a crooked shareholder, who can run down the prestige, buy up profitable jewels within the metaleurope group, and leave a region in an unacceptable state of pollution?
and i think we must also talk about the terrible pollution of the sites, the very serious damage to the health of the workers, their children and their families.
i want the commission to have the power to say no to restructuring which violates the rights of workers, which disregards the environment and the requalification of sites.
there are issues related to compliance with standards in the new member states, notably in the social and environmental fields.
it must be stressed, however, that the failure of the kazakh regime to respect human rights, which the european parliament is about to denounce, does not in any way hinder the great oil trusts, which are competing for billions of dollars - 13 billion more than in russia - for the considerable energy reserves of kazakhstan, nor the construction groups, such as bouyges, which have gained considerable sums from the construction of the new capital astana.
the problem with this agreement is precisely that it puts everything on the same level: banking services, insurance services, but also water supply, energy, postal services, education and health, potentially.
and we do see that there are offers in the postal sector and that, subject to clarification and classification at the wto, there could be offers in the energy and water sectors.
we must instead encourage cooperation, investment in the sectors where these countries need it, but within the framework of cooperation, leaving them in control of the rules they impose on foreign investors in environmental, social, etc.
there has been no real consultation of the parties concerned and of the trade union organizations, which, however, are aware of the needs in terms of safety for people and the environment and possess irreplaceable know-how.
secondly, there has been no previous study of the effects of this liberalization, particularly on such important issues as employment, security and the environment.
the concept of self-help opens the door to insecurity, to the deterioration of working and employment conditions and environmental safety.
i think all these sectors should be seen as partners in the goal of sustainable development.
the first is that we consider that in the area of port policy, if we are to be consistent with the objective of sustainable mobility proposed in the white paper, the problem of competition in ports is certainly not the most relevant and urgent approach.
this has led to ecological disasters, with the erika and the prestige, and this has resulted in the employment of seamen for wages ten times lower than european wages.
i therefore ask that we vote in favour of excluding piloting from the scope of the directive, in order to be consistent with our vote at first reading, and also so that pilots can continue to contribute to the protection of the environment and safety in community ports.
this is what i am doing, in effect, in transport, in ports, in the rest of the transport sectors, and in energy.
the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive on the promotion of the use of biofuels in transport (12695/1/2002 - c5-0585/2002 - 2001/0265 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs ayuso gonzález).
it is not enough to say that 12% of our energy has to be renewable, we have to take the steps to make that true.
i am trying to take steps to make that promise, that agreement, that commitment that was made by all the countries in this parliament and in the council, of 12% renewable energy, a reality.
in the transport sector there are very few measures we can take to reduce co2 emissions, this is one of them and, with your support, i hope we can get it through quickly, along with the supplementary taxation, which is key to making it really work.
the aim is to restore stocks in a sustainable way so as to preserve as many jobs as possible in the fishing communities that have long been fishing for whitefish, which must be compensated temporarily and fairly and not permanently reconverted.
in the face of an extremely tense economic and social climate, i am surprised by the optimism of the commission's communication and, to put it bluntly, exasperated by the way in which the debate is being approached.
- the aim of the directive, which is to establish, through transparent access to port services, common rules for maritime ports in order to strengthen their role in transport and to give them a leading position in intermodality, must not be achieved at any price, that is to say by giving up a high level of maritime safety, effective environmental protection and satisfactory employment conditions for workers in this sector.
it is preparing, as has the liberalization of rail transport, for human, social and environmental disasters.
solemn declarations on the maintenance of public service obligations, the guarantee of jobs or the preservation of the safety and environment of ports - objectives which are perfectly legitimate and which no one disputes - conceal a desire, much less noble, to defend monopolies, especially trade unions, which some believed to be untouchable.
but after having pushed through these open doors, after having explained that in addition to jobs and growth, we would need a third ecological dimension, not to mention the objective of promoting health and well-being in the workplace, after having expressed all these beautiful sentiments, we must wake up, get out of the dream and into reality.
we must at the same time have a policy which is as much about sustainability as it is about flexibility.
i believe that the social climate, further exacerbated by the economic downturn, is creating a very unpleasant climate to which this report is certainly not capable of giving a credible answer.
it has the advantage of reflecting the objectives of economic policy in relation to the lisbon and gothenburg objectives: we want to make europe a model of economic growth, based on the quality of investment in human resources, on the quality of public investment, and on the ecological sustainability of the technologies chosen.
international trade is essential, but it must be conditional on the adoption and observance of environmental and social rules.
among the measures included in its conclusions of 6 december on ship safety and pollution prevention, the council expressed its support for the work being carried out within the imo framework to develop a flag state code and a mandatory standard control system, with a view to ensuring that flag states fulfil their obligations under international conventions.
we must also stress the need for citizen consumers to participate in the establishment of a sustainable model of society.
and how do we ensure their sustainability ?
we welcome the emergence of the concept of citizen consumers and i would remind you that their fundamental rights are the right to safety, information, freedom of choice, representation, redress, satisfaction and a clean environment.
the consumption of the future must take account of the three pillars of sustainable development: economic, ecological and social, the latter two being still too often neglected.
i propose that we consider the feasibility of a general directive on the environmental quality of consumer products and services, taking account in particular of a european label and a high level of protection.
in this sense, it will become one of the main and indispensable actors in this development which we want to be sustainable.
it is clear that several different aspects are involved: firstly, the policy of economic and social cohesion through co-financing from the structural funds; secondly, european social policy; but also, thirdly, the rules of the european internal market, which are intended to enable our companies to develop in a climate of fair competition.
unfortunately, our companies often succumb to the temptation to move their operations to low-wage countries, sometimes in defiance of any social or environmental considerations.
we know that investors base their decisions on the comparative advantages of the location: these include wage costs, social climate, quality of infrastructure, applicable legal framework, but often also public aid and tax benefits.
many legislative frameworks still need to be put in place to provide minimum guarantees for investors in europe, and thus guarantee job security and sustainability for millions of our fellow citizens.
the sustainable development of our continent, which remains its only long-term prospect, is understood in the triple sense of a social policy of progress, respect for the environment and a solidary and regulated economic policy.
it is simplistic to think that the united states' objective is to control energy resources.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the question of the use of agricultural and non-agricultural pesticides is now coming back through the door of sustainable development.
as regards the working method, i would like to point out that while this report deals with the 23rd amendment to the directive banning the placing on the market of cmrs, the committee on the environment is already considering the 25th amendment to the directive.
of course, this 25th amendment covers other substances and preparations, but would it not be better to coordinate the adoption of the various texts, particularly when they concern products dangerous to man and the environment?
cmrs, chemicals and pesticides must be considered in the same light as safety and the risks they pose to humans and the environment.
i am proud and happy to have been appointed rapporteur and i warmly thank the colleagues in my new group who have given me this new task, as well as all the other colleagues who have subsequently helped me, not to mention the members of our committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy for their collaboration, and my assistant.
at the lisbon summit in march 2000, the aim was to establish the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion.
at a time when the number of redundancies is increasing in europe, when growth in the euro area is slowing down - 1% instead of the announced 1.8% - and when the trap of the stability and growth pact is closing, the fifteen are continuing to liberalize railways, energy and air transport, deregulate social protection and make the labour market more flexible.
we know the responsibility of the agricultural professions, whose ambition is to achieve the optimum quality of their products in a preserved living environment.
the environmental issues are major in this case: the quality of water and soil is seriously affected by the overuse of pesticides with often dramatic, and sometimes still unknown, repercussions on human health.
- the main purpose of the text we have just voted is to ensure the health safety of artificial insemination of cattle; but there is another aspect of this activity which has not been sufficiently taken into account until now, and that is the biodiversity or genetic diversity of bovine breeds.
the cattle insemination industry, left to the liberal rules of the market, seeks performance at the lowest cost, which leads to pressure to reduce the number of breeders; this has led to increased risk of inbreeding, the threat of extinction for rare species, and the depletion of biodiversity.
there is a public service dimension in the genetic selection of animal breeds which is poorly taken into account by a purely commercial organisation of the profession; the maintenance of biodiversity within domestic breeds is one aspect of the multifunctional nature of agriculture which the member states must be keen to support.
in an environment where competition is also ruthless in this field, everyone will understand that it is essential to mobilize all the energies to prevent the brain drain to the united states.
- mr president, it is in a climate of security laws and the de facto criminalization of emigration that mrs cerdeirera morterero's report attempts to make positive corrections to the commission's original proposal.
the directive provides that the grant of a residence permit is limited to a period of one year, renewable under certain conditions.
- (fr) those who want to stabilise the continent, consolidate democracy and peace, strengthen the economy and sustainable development, and support a cultural and human dimension based on common values such as freedom and respect for fundamental rights and good governance and the rule of law should support the accession of the 10 new member states.
the enlargement process is in danger of being a waste because there are several preconditions which have not been met: first of all, institutional conditions.
the enlargement of the european union wins by being presented as a reunion of the peoples of our continent, who have finally been brought together and are now united by common basic values such as freedom, democracy, solidarity and respect for human rights and the environment.
the way we deal with threats to global security will also determine our future in building peace and ensuring a healthy economic environment, with credible answers to global political, economic, and even environmental problems.
we hope that the work we are initiating as a follow-up to the communication will help to develop the strong and competitive defence industry, transparent market conditions and healthy climate for investments in research and development necessary for the strengthening of esdp.
and today mr morillon's report makes a whole series of interesting proposals, for example on the objectives of the cfsp and esdp in a new international environment, on the new role of nato, on relations between the european union and nato, on the military capabilities we need to be simply credible, particularly in the field of high technology.
the european commission's proposal, supplemented by amendments from the committee on the environment, succeeds in taking both these principles into account.
firstly, the proposal must cover all existing seeds, so that there is a complete panel which takes account, alongside traditional seeds, of the specificities of biodiversity and the effects of the introduction of biotechnologies through gmos.
unfortunately, the draft of the latest directive does not take sufficient account of directive 2001/18, which has since come into force, on the deliberate release of genetically modified organisms into the environment.
i would first like to thank my colleagues and the secretariat of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection and the officials of the directorate-general responsible for their very good cooperation.
on this point of comitology, the vote in the committee on the environment showed a very clear refusal to transfer these powers to the commission alone.
the vote in the committee on the environment was also favourable to the application for marketing authorization of the two new sweeteners, but it also allowed the adoption of an amendment calling for a re-evaluation of these two substances three years after the entry into force of the revised directive.
as regards cyclamates, the vote in the committee on the environment was more forceful than the one recommended by the directorate-general for health and consumer protection.
the committee on the environment proposes that the level of cyclamates be reduced to 250 mg and that this provision be extended to all beverages.
- the next item is the report (a5-0105/2003) by mr nobilia, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on detergents (com (2002) 485 - c5-0404/2002 - 2002/0216 (cod)).
- commissioner, this proposal for a regulation, which is designed to simplify legislation, is entirely in line with the framework of sustainable development, simply because it is an environmental issue, a question which may also be a matter of public health and consumer policy.
this is therefore an environmental problem, since pressure should be put on the various actors concerned to significantly reduce the use of detergents, which, when excessive, has adverse consequences on water.
in fact, are the consequences on human health of water pollution caused by the discharge of washing water containing detergents really being measured?
but these measures are probably still insufficient in view of the environmental issues involved and the current results.
it is essential to continue research in this area to find substances which are equally effective in terms of hygiene but less harmful to the environment.
- madam president, i should like to congratulate the rapporteur on the quality of his work and on his willingness to reinstate article 174 of the treaty on environmental policy in the text of the regulation.
the restriction of the use of dangerous substances called surfactants, harmful to the environment because they are very little biodegradable and dangerous in terms of public health for those who handle these detergents on a daily basis.
those member states that feel particularly vulnerable to the environmental effects of phosphates have already taken national measures.
we hope to have a definitive opinion from the scientific committee on toxicology, eco-toxicology and environment on phosphates in detergents before the end of this year.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0099/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending for the 25th time council directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction - cmr) [15703/2/2002 - c5-0013/2003 and 15703/2/2002].
the situation of coffee producers is not sustainable because there is no international system for stabilizing the prices of coffee and raw materials in general.
we must put an end to this spiral of productivism which, in defiance of all social and environmental legislation, leads to the misery of millions of farmers in poor countries.
they must agree to adopt ethical codes of conduct in line with the ilo and the un and to pay the raw material at its fair price, a price that reflects the social and environmental costs of exploitation and production.
fair trade is not just another option for ensuring that coffee growers and workers are paid fairly, but the only sustainable global solution.
every effort should be made to preserve the biodiversity of cultivated plants.
it is therefore up to the member states to maintain the public service dimension in plant breeding, to ensure the sustainability of local endangered varieties and to allow seed propagation on the farm.
finally, the greatest caution should be exercised in the use of plant protection products to coat seeds, a technique which can be harmful to the environment and wildlife, particularly in the case of seeds coated with potent systemic insecticides, which have a disastrous effect on pollinating insects, especially domestic bees.
the report also calls for the adoption of a new law on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
this esdp must be based on the principle of security, security shared by europe and the rest of the world, sustainable security based on equality, justice and reciprocity, security based on respect for human rights, democratic control and international law.
on an equally personal note, i would like to say to mrs de palacio that, although she has never answered my question on what i consider to be a contradiction between free competition to bring down prices and the unquestioned need to save energy, i appreciate her work as energy commissioner, her undeniable skills and her ability to listen.
to come back to the substance, on behalf of my group, i would like to remind you that the 'intelligent energy for europe' programme, which runs from 2003 to 2006, replaces a programme which expired on 31 december last, which is why it is urgent to reach agreement and find the best possible compromise.
as mentioned, this amount will be divided between four specific programmes: energy efficiency, promotion of renewable energy sources, energy aspect of transport, promotion of renewable energy and energy efficiency in developing countries.
the council, however, did not accept the creation of a european agency for smart energy.
i will conclude by stressing once again that energy is not a commodity like any other.
fission is a matter of public opinion, and therefore renewable energy and energy conservation must be promoted.
finally, mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that we must implement what i personally consider to be the possible energy of tomorrow, fusion, and thus launch the iter programme very quickly, very quickly, mr president.
faced with the international competition that has developed in the field of launchers and with major funding difficulties, the european space industry is facing a very serious crisis, even unprecedented, and there is therefore an urgent need to overcome this situation that puts the very sustainability of arianespace in question and to provide solutions.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, i am responsible for drawing up, on behalf of the committee responsible, the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, the report on the state of play of the galileo programme and the integration of the egnos programme into the galileo programme.
it will have applications for the environment which will also be fundamental.
secondly, space for community policies, a key objective in the white paper, which must therefore be included in applications such as agriculture, fisheries, education and the environment, to which several speakers have referred.
- mr president, the proposal for a directive on environmental liability which has been presented to us today is very disappointing.
we welcome european harmonisation in the field of environmental damage, which is often transnational, but it would still require serious progress.
first example: article 3 states that the directive does not apply to the transport of dangerous substances by sea, to damage caused by oil pollution and to damage caused by nuclear power.
the commission promised us, when we were discussing the directive on the voluntary release of gmos, that the questions of liability and insurance would be dealt with in the general directive on environmental liability, the one we are discussing today.
in these circumstances, we ask the council not to lift the moratorium until the questions of liability and assurance regarding gmos are clearly resolved for the best protection of the citizen and the environment.
- mr president, to legislate on environmental liability is to open pandora's box, since environmental damage is poorly defined by the directive and its scope of application is vague, particularly in the area of biodiversity, which is already governed by the international conventions of berne and bonn.
the compensation must be based on objective and quantifiable criteria, on the nature of the damage and its impact, on the state of the environment at the level of the damage, on local circumstances.
more generally, what is the point of making the system of liability community-wide, when the danish initiative of the council on the criminalisation of environmental crime falls within the scope of judicial cooperation?
- mr president, madam commissioner, we have been waiting for a long time to have an environmental liability regime, a regime that is sufficiently severe but objective and feasible, so that it protects the environment without harming the economy, whether industrial or agricultural.
and here, our anger is proportional to the extent of the damage to biodiversity.
i am convinced that in conclusion we will have to discuss this environmental liability regime again.
- mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the directive on environmental liability was the missing link in an effective environmental policy.
with a strong and courageous directive, we could reduce pollution and environmental damage and make polluters pay.
how can we protect the environment by excluding nuclear energy and gmos?
the aim of protecting and restoring biodiversity with a directive which is responsible for 13% of the territory is unacceptable.
but the worst thing is the hypocrisy of some member states on this question of environmental responsibility.
the french conservatives, who are disgusted by the amount of fipol reimbursements, would be well advised to ask mr chirac, who is draped in an environmental charter, to change the position of his government, which campaigns for exemptions to permits and against compulsory insurance.
and this is totally contradictory to a real environmental policy.
i do not know what members' presumptions are about the targets for this legislation, but our presumptions are very much based on the facts that there are too many accidents and too many cases of negligence, and also that short-sighted greed is behind much of the pollution.
it was very important for us to ensure that we have legal clarity if we want to introduce a new system covering biodiversity, because traditional damage – economic damage or damage to people – is already well covered by the legislation in all member states.
we do not have to take over that at community level, but we want to harmonise the rules for covering damage to biodiversity.
however, if we are too ambitious at the beginning and think that we can cover the whole biosphere, then we would not be serving environmental interests.
on gmos, nuclear and marine pollution: we can see that this is an area in which we would also like to be more ambitious.
what about oil or marine pollution?
i hope that this conference will be a success; we are all determined to work on marine pollution and to do everything we can.
the commission does not find it appropriate to impose liability on the competent authority when damage is caused by a permitted activity, nor does it find it appropriate that there should be a link between the state-of-the-art defence and any environmental audit and management system.
there is general agreement that the polluter-pays principle should imply, for the liable operator as polluter, to pay for all the damage it causes to the environment.
in addition, there is a clear need for a common understanding within the community that the costs of environmental damage should be borne by the polluter.
finally, in the difficult context of this debate on environmental liability, the commission has tried to reach an overall balance which has already been built on compromise solutions.
- the proposal for a directive on 'environmental responsibility' is very important to ensure better protection of the environment and to combat all types of pollution.
from the 2002 azf disaster in toulouse to the erika and prestige oil tankers, these disasters have cost lives and caused serious and lasting environmental damage.
on the contrary, the provisions envisaged must be reinforced with means of protection, by making polluters bear the burden of the damage caused to the environment, by giving the possibility to ngos and citizens to bring legal proceedings, and by including in the directive the damage caused by gmos.
- we voted with a number of reservations in favour of the sacconi report on environmental agreements concluded at community level, which provides for a new instrument to simplify and speed up legislative work at european level: voluntary agreements.
these agreements, which form part of the sixth community environment action programme, may take two forms: self-regulation and co-regulation.
the commission's proposal to amend the sport boat directive aims to incorporate environmental concerns into an internal market directive.
in this respect, the proposal is a good example of the synergies between environmental and industrial policy that are necessary to achieve sustainable development.
the compromise reached in the trilogue between representatives of this house and the council represents a balance between these two pillars of sustainable development.
this is the final procedural step on the road to the long awaited community-wide regulation on the limitation of emissions from sports boats, and i thank this house and especially the rapporteur once again for contributing to the achievement of this objective.
i had mentioned that the commission would be presenting a communication on the sustainability of tourism this year.
but these actions cannot be reduced to a mere verbal condemnation, because in the face of this world hegemonic power, the credibility, even the sustainability, of the un is dangerously shaken, which cannot leave us indifferent.
- i voted in favour of the manders report on environmental responsibility because the amendments finally adopted were a fairly good answer to the objections i raised in yesterday's debate.
the amendments i am particularly determined to vote for are: 1) amendments nos 85 and 99 which call in particular on the commission to draw up proposals to apply the directive to environmental damage resulting from nuclear energy and maritime transport; the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work.
- the manders report claims to be based on the polluter pays principle: companies that damage the environment must bear the costs of the damage they have caused.
- the issues raised by environmental liability and specific liability for shipping are, despite appearances, of a different nature.
the concept of environmental liability, which is still in its infancy, is based on the need to identify the person responsible and to establish a causal link between the event giving rise to the pollution: it involves lengthy procedures and late compensation.
the system of no-fault liability laid down by the clc/fipol international conventions has the advantage for victims of designating a person responsible who must be insured and of creating a compensation fund which, in theory, can be mobilised immediately in the event of pollution.
however, the experience of recent oil spills shows that this system must be extended to shipping companies and to biodiversity damage, and that fipol must be significantly upgraded and made permanent.
i am thinking in particular of animals of high genetic value, breeders, small breeds of interest to biodiversity.
ensure long-term sustainability of public finances, launch structural reforms, including labour market reforms, to make better use of human resources, lower marginal tax rates that are too high, encourage competition, reform pension systems and so on.
the policy is made up of three fundamental instruments, which i have already mentioned: sound macroeconomic policies, structural reforms and environmental, social and economic sustainability in the medium and long term.
in britain, the state is faced with the bankruptcy of british energy.
it involves security of supply, environmental protection and public service.
even if the work of my colleagues is not in question, i cannot accept the proposals of an ever more liberal commission, especially in the energy field.
moreover, it is not possible to pursue the opening up of the energy sector to competition by extending to individuals a system originally designed for undertakings.
in conclusion, in the light of all these considerations, i renew my opposition to these proposals which are aimed at completing the opening up of the energy sector to competition.
- mr president, the liberalisation of energy markets once again illustrates the break, in our view, between the european institutions and the european peoples.
the need for energy is a basic need for us, and access to it is a fundamental right.
we believe that only real public and democratic control would make it possible to rationalise energy production and consumption while ensuring respect for the environment and flat-rate compensation.
in order to fully assume its responsibility towards the citizens of europe, parliament should therefore reject the directives on the energy sector and launch a genuine democratic debate on the real effects of the policy that seems to be taking place in the european union today.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, those who know me will not be surprised to hear me confirm that, since energy is not a commodity like any other, i and my group are resolutely opposed to the new proposals for the liberalization of gas and electricity markets.
in our view, despite the formal precautions and the undeniable oratorical qualities of our commissioner and our rapporteurs, these proposals run counter to the necessary energy savings and, therefore, to the protection of the environment.
they will lead to job losses and, above all, to further deterioration of public services, as well as to the deterioration of the land-use planning tools of energy networks and tariff equalization.
they will run counter to the increasingly indispensable diversification of energy sources.
the logic of the internal market is therefore particularly inadequate in the energy sector.
energy is a major tool in this sense, if not the first of the tools.
- mr president, i am in favour of an integrated market in the area of network industries as a basis for a competitive european economy and solidarity, particularly through interconnection, but on two fundamental conditions: that the networks be treated as public goods and that a common energy policy be pursued.
the sectoral directives are clearly intended to advance the public service obligations: universal service, environment, interconnection, security of supply.
are we facing a chronic pollution that will last for years, or is there a solution that is emerging?
meda ii does not simply promote the creation of a free trade area at the mediterranean level by 2010, but adds a social, cultural and environmental dimension to mediterranean economic cooperation.
sixth, we take into account the ongoing work of the european convention to address the five challenges for the meda countries: demography, employment and migration, globalisation, the scarcity of natural resources and the environmental challenge, human rights.
seventhly, we suggest using the sixth framework programme for r & d to carry out research in the field of environment and agriculture to ensure food sovereignty, especially water management, and to put more emphasis on renewable energy.
- the committee on employment and social affairs proposes that we adopt the draft council directive establishing a comprehensive employment policy for the european union by 2010. this policy is part of the lisbon strategy to make europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment and greater social cohesion.
i think that our colleague mr rothley and the whole legal affairs committee have spent a lot of time and energy on this, too much in my opinion, because, as with the statute for european political parties, i have the impression that it is a lot of money.
what about an assessment of the social, environmental, cultural and economic consequences of these liberalisations?
our committee on agriculture also considered that the environmental impact of dried fodder could not be limited to a vague static consideration of the consumption of fossil fuels.
we therefore propose, in agreement with the industry, the conclusion of progress contracts through which dehydration units can commit themselves to improving their performance, their yield and their energy balance.
finally, our committee felt that further agronomic and environmental progress could be made by this profession in this sector.
this will encourage states to properly finance all the social, food quality and environmental aspects of rural development.
similarly, states can choose - and we believe they should - to finance compensatory payments to less-favoured areas, as well as areas subject to environmental constraints or agro-environmental measures.
this strengthening of rural development is therefore in the right direction for two reasons: the first is to strengthen good agricultural practices, more extensive practices, protecting consumer health, respecting the environment and biodiversity and producing good social added value; the second is to protect the rural world from the vagaries of aggressive trade liberalism advocated by the wto.
protein crops should therefore be able to be grown on all frozen land, since europe is in short supply in this area and the cultivation of plant proteins is beneficial for soil quality, the environment and the quality of animal feed.
and you justify it with popular, i dare say populist clichés: animal welfare, sustainable development, food quality or environmental protection.
in reality, rural development will not be sustainable, because young people will not settle down.
nor price stability at a time when recession is in danger, but securing jobs, training and pensions for all, financing useful infrastructure, such as large-scale railways, and more generally genuinely fair and sustainable development.
in addition, as i said during the debate on environmental liability at the last session, the insufficient compensation capacity of fipol must be addressed and a compulsory insurance scheme based on the polluter-pays principle must be put in place as a matter of urgency.
- what a waste of time.
it has been known since december 1999, since the sinking of the erika and its dramatic economic, social and environmental consequences, that the withdrawal of single-hull tankers was inevitable and urgent.
so, economically, strategically, we have different interests and if we want to get out of the economic slump, if we want to get a revival through europe, we must at some point ask, at the global level, a question that is central to europe: are we doomed to pay our energy bills, our oil bills, in dollars?
in addition, it is surrounded by a psychological climate which has an impact on the lives of those around us.
i therefore support amendments nos 11 and 12 from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
if it were, european farmers and consumers would be better off, as the change in mentality has been rapid and in the right direction: to turn the page from an agriculture that is costly, wasteful and destructive of the peasant world, to an agriculture that respects men and women, their work, the land and the environment.
this 10-year reform of the cap is a bet on a new, modern agriculture which takes account of the social, economic and environmental realities of farming.
- i voted against the cunha report which approves the broad lines of the fischler proposal which, as a mid-term review of agenda 2000, proposes a radical reform of the cap based on decoupling aid, modulation and cross-compliance with environmental requirements.
the only point of satisfaction was the adoption of my amendment on energy and industrial crops on arable land, which should help to consolidate the emerging sectors.
it must be better targeted on quality, environmental and rural employment objectives.
the accession of the poor to energy has become a priority, as the johannesburg summit rightly stated, even though the vital needs of the population in this area are far from being met and the trend remains uneven, due in particular to the consumption of fossil fuels in developed countries, in particular in the united states, which is excessive and very unbalanced compared to that of developing countries.
life expectancy and development are so closely linked to access to energy that many people see it as a fundamental human right.
how can we contribute to the existence and development of an efficient energy sector in developing countries without policies that favour strong cooperation for the exchange of know-how, with the primary objective of meeting the vital needs of the population?
the creation of a sustainable energy fund and a much larger participation of the european union could be a first response.
above all, as the report rightly points out, the existence of a strong public sector in the energy sector is particularly important in the first phase of development.
furthermore, as the majority of the committee on development and cooperation has said, i remain convinced that the commission's options for privatising the energy sector are more than dangerous.
the exploitation and distribution of primary energy, which is essential for development, must be carried out by public or private companies, but which are committed to public service and general interest objectives.
this public control is all the more vital as transnational companies operating in developing countries too often pursue short-term profitability objectives, to the detriment of the needs of local populations and at the risk of looting energy resources.
i also support the call on the commission to take stock of deregulation in the energy sector from a human development perspective and to work towards international trade standards that respect human and peoples' rights.
finally, a few days before the next wto summit in cancún next september, we must reject the integration of the energy sector into the general agreement on trade in services, which would make energy a commodity like any other.
the objective of access to energy for all in the service of development will not be achieved by following a model imposed by the liberal logic of multilateral institutions such as the wto, but by expanding and guaranteeing public services to serve the needs of the population.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection adopted a text a few weeks ago by a very large majority, which confirms the requirements we must meet if we are to make progress in the field of prevention.
i am therefore glad that the committee on the environment has adopted the amendments on the obligation to notify the competent authorities, because we must be very demanding in this area, without being bureaucratic, madam commissioner, and we can very well consider simplifying the documents.
one point which is problematic and seems to be met with determined opposition from the council and the commission, as you have just reiterated, madam commissioner, is the extension of the scope of application to all mining and waste treatment activities involving hazardous substances.
the council and the commission wish to restrict the scope of the seveso ii directive to the thermal and chemical treatment of waste only, justifying this position by the fact that, in its proposal on waste from the extractive industry, the commission refers, in article 6 on the prevention of major accidents, to the provisions of the seveso ii directive as amended.
however, if we want to avoid, until the adoption of this new legislative proposal, a legal vacuum in respect of certain mining activities and certain treatments of mining waste, the european parliament must vote in favour of amendments nos 1, 2 and 13, without prejudice to the scope of the future report and without any redundancies.
i therefore hope that parliament will adopt the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, thereby strengthening prevention at sites and the safety of european citizens.
is it in the interests of the environment?
our environment would benefit from an obvious transport saving, that of the journey of the lorry that comes to the farm to buy the maize or the pea for fodder and that of the lorry that comes to the same farm to deliver the compound feed.
i would add that if agri-environmental aid were granted to farms producing oleoprotein for the self-consumption of their own livestock, it should be easy to get it accepted under the green box so dear to commissioner fischler.
it would therefore perhaps be a good thing, mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, if the european union and the member states, while not denying the usefulness of legislation on additives in animal feed, spent more energy on encouraging the feeding of farm animals than on regulating and controlling the production of industrial feed.
it is an ecosystem, a real entity rich in its environment and culture.
the problems which concern it must be solved in the framework of multilateral relations and the meda programmes, for which i am rapporteur, are genuine european union instruments set up by the 1995 barcelona convention, which make it possible to intervene with a view to sustainable development.
the economic, technical and environmental problems associated with fisheries must also be taken into account by meda.
first, for environmental knowledge purposes, it is necessary to carry out a survey of the environment, waste water treatment, the evolution of coastal zones and the evolution of fisheries resources.
finally, as regards the mediterranean sea itself and the coastal ponds and wetlands bordering it, the greatest possible respect for the environment must be ensured in order to ensure that fisheries can continue to develop, particularly in ponds such as the thau pond, for which it is essential to maintain the classification in category a. only this can allow extensive exploitation to continue, with constant consideration of health criteria corresponding to an excellent quality environment, avoiding any drift that would inevitably occur if only out-of-water activities were encouraged, in particular the cleaning of shells.
- the wijkman report has the great merit of highlighting the key role played by energy in development and of setting out some edifying orders of magnitude: from the two billion human beings who today lack access to an energy service capable of meeting their basic needs, to the forecasts of growth in world energy demand for 2020 (+ 65% compared to 1995), the emphasis is judiciously placed on the vicious circles of underdevelopment against which it is now imperative to act in the interest of the entire planet.
if the rapporteur and i can welcome the commission's initiatives, we will be quick to add that, in the face of their lack of ambition, he could have - and should have - pointed out the lack of research efforts in the field of nuclear energy, because the serious prospective studies clearly show - and the rapporteur also contributes to this despite himself - our inability to meet the future energy needs of the planet if we turn our backs on the only technology capable of effectively taking over from fossil fuels, which are also often the source of greed and serious conflicts, as the report points out.
adopting a strategy for the protection and conservation of the marine environment means designing a genuine european policy for maritime safety.
the ecological disaster is not going to be fixed by subsidies.
the regions affected suffer and will suffer for a long time in terms of their biodiversity and ecological balance, which are essential for the maintenance of fisheries resources and the preservation of species.
environmental and health requirements, as greenpeace and friends of the earth rightly denounce, are forgotten, as are the working conditions and pay of workers in companies that pocket public money.
furthermore, under the pretext of coordinating the procedures for the water, energy, transport and postal services contracts, the council seeks to make it clear that these are precisely markets and not vital services for society as a whole.
these services of water, energy, transport and postal services must be and remain public services.
in accordance with that jurisprudence, the common position already clarifies that environmental characteristics and social clauses may be used as award criteria and that it is not necessary that each and every award criterion taken individually can be shown to provide an economic benefit for the contracting authorities or entities.
i should like to reply that regarding the amendments which aimed to insert explicit references to production methods, the commission is of the opinion that it is superfluous to do so since production methods are a part of the environmental characteristics which, as i have just said, are already allowed for.
recital 44 further clarifies that this encompasses requirements addressed to satisfy the needs of the public concern in the case of the ruling about the need to limit air pollution for the population of the city of helsinki.
it would therefore not be appropriate – indeed, it would be contrary to established policy in the environmental field – to introduce a preference for european eco-labels over other eco-labels.
- the agenda calls for joint debate on: - recommendation (a5-0202/2003) for second reading, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on genetically modified food and feed [5204/3/2003 - c5-0133/2003 - 2001/0173 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs scheele), and - recommendation (a5-0204/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the traceability and labelling of genetically modified organisms and the traceability of products intended for human or animal consumption as from 2001 (rapporteur: mrs mellis) and amending directive 2001/18/ec (directive 2001/18/ec) (rapporteur: mr mellis) [1580/01/2003] (c8-0180/01 (cod))
- the gmo regulations should be a major step forward in terms of biosecurity, freedom of choice and consumer information.
in the immediate future, member states must be able to take emergency measures on a sovereign basis, for example administrative suspensions of authorisations in the event of a risk to public health or environmental contamination.
finally, a genuine system of liability for the introduction of gmos into agriculture and the environment will have to be defined.
the second risk is environmental: the risk of spreading unwanted genes to wild flora and the rhizosphere.
the benefits for the consumer and the environment are currently nil, as the reduction in pesticide consumption that gmos were supposed to provide is still expected.
we are talking about traceability, labelling, zero tolerance, maximum thresholds, consumer choice, health, the environment and precautions.
there's also linda fischer, number two at the environmental protection agency, former head of monsanto's lobbying office in washington, clarence thomas, a supreme court justice appointed by bush sr., who was a lawyer for monsanto.
the real question then, madam president, is not scientific, health or environmental.
- madam president, the feverishness of the sowers in lobbying to convince members to reject the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy is the only reason why we are voting for them despite the limitations of the texts concerned.
the responsibility of those who introduce gmos into the environment, in particular the seed industries, including european ones, must be clearly established under the polluter-pays principle: the cost of repairing damage must be borne by gmo agriculture.
if this is the case, we are taking a big risk for europeans, because we cannot limit the subject of gmos to a matter of consumer choice and ignore public health and environmental problems.
everyone knows that economic and financial interests still prevail in this area and that the agricultural and environmental future of the european union is at stake under pressure from the united states and negotiations within the wto.
our vote will therefore be much more political than it appears and we would be guilty before the citizens if we did not demand, before any decision is taken, to be better informed of the real risks that the cultivation of gmos will have on the environment and on the health of the population.
it is absolutely urgent to allow free choice of consumption and to protect the environment, to preserve gm-free crops and to ensure that they remain so.
for those who finance the health system, there is a need for sustainable budgeting, affordable medicines, manageable demand and responsible behaviour from patients, prescribers and producers alike.
it is only by moving towards a more predictable market environment across europe that we will be in a position to convince industry to take the needs of europeans seriously in the years ahead.
this means identifying which medicines are genuinely effective, not just in the controlled environment of a clinical trial, but in general use amongst the wider population.
although enlargement is one specific recommendation of the g10, clearly our responses to each recommendation need to adequately reflect the changing environment within the european union.
- the agenda calls for the joint debate on:- recommendation for second reading (a5-0191/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2000/13/ec as regards the indication of ingredients present in foodstuffs [15514/2/2002 - c5-0080/2003 - 2001/0199 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs klaß);- report (a5-0216/2003) by mrs ayuso gonzález, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 95/2/ec on food additives other than colours and sweeteners [2002/66 (cod) ] (a5-0191/2003)), on the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending directive 2001/13/ec as regards the indication of ingredients present in foodstuffs [15514/2/2002 - c5-0080/2003 - 2001/0199 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs klaß);- report (a5-0216/2003) by mrs ayuso gonzález, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending the council amended directive 95/ec directive on food additives other than colours and sweeteners and colours and sweeteners [2002/66/2003] (a5-0192/05/02)), on the common position of the council amending of directive of the european parliament and council amending directive on the indication of ingredients presenting foodstuffs) and the directive 2000/13/ec as regards the directive of the directive of the
- thank you very much, mrs. klaß.
the report by mrs klaß, as adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, was, in my view, the best solution.
tomorrow i will have to defend before the wine sector in my region, champagne-ardennes, the established principle that it is up to producers, large and small, to prove that the derivatives of so-called allergenic products which they use as technological aids in wine are not themselves allergenic, because they are the result of an important processing process from raw materials and are involved in a totally different environment - wine or beer - which fundamentally changes their characteristics.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation (a5-0200/2003) for second reading, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a european parliament and council directive amending directive 94/62/ec on packaging and packaging waste [14843/1/2002 - c5-0082/2003 - 2001/0291 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs corbey).
thirdly, i have visited ireland so i know the challenge the handling of waste creates in ireland.
there is, of course, a balance in trying to do what we can now and dealing with the acute problems of handling waste, while at the same time preparing for a modern, long-term strategy, which will probably not be following waste stream per waste stream.
hopefully, we will be able to look at the source of the problems, including transport of packaging and packaging waste.
the ipp strategy has to do with this, our resource-use strategy as well as a new waste-recycling strategy.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation (a5-0207/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council establishing a scheme for greenhouse gas emission allowance trading within the community and amending council directive 96/61/ec [15792/1/2003 - c5-0135/2003 - 2001/0245 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr moreira da silva).
mr president, firstly, i am totally convinced that the issue of climate change will follow not only us but generations to come, and it will become more and more difficult and we will have to be more and more ambitious in order to meet this enormous challenge to human life on this planet.
we have also prepared in a prudent way the start of an emissions trading system in europe.
allowances will be a tradable commodity, just like many other tradable commodities, and it is not different just because it stems from an environmental policy.
on transport, we wanted to start with large, fixed-point installations, whose emissions can be feasibly monitored.
this has been important in designing this proposal, but we accept that transport also has to be subject of action when it comes to reducing the greenhouse gas emissions.
this other europe is a europe freed from american tutelage, which dares to make another voice heard in the major international institutions in order to tackle, together with its allies in the south, the acute wounds that are making the planet increasingly unlivable and dangerous, namely poverty, underdevelopment, ecological disaster and war.
issues which are the subject of conflict between the two sides of the atlantic, such as environmental protection, should be the subject of a more pragmatic approach.
the cartagena protocol on biodiversity recognizes this right.
but was not this violation preceded by another, much more serious violation, namely, the risk of contamination by gmos to neighbouring private properties and to the natural environment in general, which is common property?
- i voted in favour of the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment, as they significantly improve the council's common position and provide strong guarantees on traceability and labelling, aimed at preserving the consumer's freedom of choice between gmo and non-gmo products.
however, as a result of the rejection of amendment 40 to the scheele report, member states are prohibited from restricting or prohibiting, on valid grounds, genetically modified food and its importation which present a risk to human or animal health or to the environment.
the amendments tabled, which are along the same lines as those we tabled for the vote in the committee on the environment, call for these technological aids to be subjected to precise scientific tests proving their allergenic effects.
- the examination of this commission proposal, which aims to revise the sole objectives of recycling and re-use of packaging and packaging waste, is a laborious exercise for our assembly.
- in view of the deadly threat posed by the greenhouse effect to the world, proposals to improve the measures taken to mitigate its magnitude cannot be overlooked.
nevertheless, i am one of those who think that we cannot speculate on pollution and allow the rich to buy the right to pollute from those who do not have the means to develop.
that is why i am voting against, and i am also urging the commission to speed up research programmes to produce clean energy.
the practical experience i have had with industrialists in my sector shows that these economic actors can make a significant effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions.
environment and health are more important than wto rules.
work in cancun for sustainable and equitable solutions.
these are translated into increasingly stringent constraints on farmers in respect of the environment and animal welfare.
in addition, there is an urgent need to support the cancun negotiations with strong parallel initiatives to redistribute and ensure the sustainability of direct investment.
if we want to be in solidarity with the south and the most vulnerable people in our area, it is impossible to treat health, education, but also water, energy or the necessary improvements in sanitation systems as mere commodities.
the right to health, education, food security, energy must prevail over commercial interests.
put your weight, that of the european union, which is considerable, at the service of improving special and differential treatment, of progress in market access, of dispute settlement reform, of taking the environment into account, of access to medicines, and not of an agreement on investments, public procurement or competition, which do not have to fall within the competence of the wto.
the question of the single european sky should have been raised not in the pursuit of commercial interests but in the context of effective harmonisation on the basis of the best european standards for operating systems and environmental and social standards.
i therefore urge the commission to abandon these senseless prosecutions and to devote all its energy to tracing the real hidden cartels which are really undermining freedom of competition.
i would like to express my indignation at a decision by my government, the french government, which classified the transport of radioactive waste as a defence secret.
we all know how dangerous highly radioactive waste is and we also know how concerned our fellow citizens are about the issue of radioactive waste, particularly from nuclear power stations.
it goes against the european parliament's resolution on the transport of radioactive materials, which we voted for here in february 2001. this resolution called for elected officials and local authorities to be informed of the passage of radioactive waste trains.
- mr president, we have seen the disastrous effects of the heat wave this summer - drought, fires, water and air pollution - but above all we are appalled by the deaths of elderly people in particularly high numbers in a country like france.
above all, a major task for the union in the future will be to step up its internal and external action to combat the greenhouse effect and thus global warming.
maintaining the current level of co2 emissions would have, among other things, irreversible effects on the climate, and we call on the union to pursue diligently the implementation of the kyoto protocol with a view to better integrating energy and environmental policies.
on this point, it will be necessary to promote renewable energies, of course, but above all nuclear energy, which is very economical in terms of co2 emissions.
but for nuclear power to be more widely accepted, it is imperative that the question of radioactive waste management and disposal be resolved.
finally, mr president, a third line of thinking: the reduction of greenhouse gases also requires better control of road transport.
we believe that the proposal for a directive on the charging of road infrastructure should accept the inclusion in the price of tolls not only of the costs of maintaining the networks but also of the costs of the damage, currently unstated, inflicted by these transports on the environment, and thus on the community.
first of all, as regards forests and forest fires, we express our deepest sympathy to the victims of these fires, particularly in portugal but also in other countries which have suffered the same disasters, because these are real ecological disasters in southern europe.
the burned forests will have to be rebuilt in accordance with the climatic and ecological characteristics.
a colleague of mine spoke earlier about wood as a source of energy, and i am in favour of it and i am developing it myself in a field for which i am responsible.
so if i have one more point to make, i would simply like this link between disasters and climate change to finally encourage us to respect and implement the kyoto protocol.
we also need decentralised, neighbourhood policies and, above all, a redefinition of energy and transport policy.
finally, we simply need to have a genuine european policy on sustainable development.
another model is indeed to be invented, one based on a genuine consideration of the environment, the collective interest and solidarity.
however, it would be very serious to reduce this summer's ecological disaster to the economic losses it caused.
in fact, it is the first major economic and humanitarian disaster caused by climate drift in the temperate zone.
i leave it to my colleagues in the green group to develop the absolute urgencies arising from this terrible experience, from this condemnation of our development model: the need to accelerate kyoto, the rejection of economic recovery based on a highway programme, the discrediting of nuclear energy as an alternative to fossil fuels, the obligation to adapt our flora and our habitat to the changes already undergone.
but just as important is the adaptation of our healthcare system and social solidarity networks to protect our seniors from the climate shock.
this is why we are asking the commission to start drafting a green paper on the protection of older people against climate and health risks in general, building on best european practices.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
you yourself have recalled our kyoto commitments on global warming.
but what is the union doing to impose another transport policy, another energy policy?
sustainable development, sustainable transport, sustainable economy, all european policies today are sustainable.
but to deal with the ecological crisis, we need to change our policies, and our policies need to be environmentally sustainable.
we must have an environmental policy which is not always the fifth wheel of the cart, as it is today.
the environment must be a priority in our policy choices.
these events are a real human, environmental and economic tragedy.
i consider this abandonment to be a political, economic and environmental mistake.
but the common money should be treated even more carefully than our own, because all waste is always out of the reach of the least advantaged in society.
the commission is therefore proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
i would like to remind you of some figures: the european union has 120 000 seamen, of whom seamen from outside the community have increased from 29 000 in 1983 to 34 500 in 2001. it is therefore legitimate to ensure that their training is the best possible and fully complies with the international convention known as stcw - which aims to safeguard human life at sea and improve the protection of the marine environment, as well as to combat ships that do not comply with the standards and practice social dumping.
this is all the more so since, in the case of the highly toxic presence of cadmium in certain fertilizers, the european authorities are once again refraining from putting pressure on certain states, and behind them on their chemical groups, to stop producing and authorizing fertilizers harmful to the environment or to health.
the defence of capitalist europe may be trying to square the circle, but we are voting against this report because we are against this system based on competition, regulated or not, because it is a huge source of waste.
what strategy do you intend to adopt to make the european agricultural model sustainable?
our agriculture is subject to a number of economic, social and environmental constraints.
commissioner, i appreciate your answer and your effort generally regarding the environment in europe, but what you say is simply not coherent with everyday facts.
developing strategies to promote equal access for all to fundamental rights such as education, healthcare, culture, as well as sustainable employment and housing remains essential.
we have repeatedly called for this scope to be extended to other diseases explicitly linked to poverty, in particular poor hygiene and environmental conditions.
i therefore welcome the report by mr bowis, which takes health in its broadest sense and takes account of the health implications of food, environmental and educational policies.
we are responsible for the climate change and the dangerous world we are leaving to our children.
- we did not vote in favour of this joint resolution on the heat wave for the simple reason that it does not take account of the social, health and ecological catastrophe.
this climate catastrophe is primarily the result of the greenhouse effect due to global warming generated by human activity.
liberal choices in energy and transport policy are harmful and criminal.
when will we have a renewable energy resolution to move away from fossil fuels and nuclear power?
climate change will make it worse.
to remedy these divergences, we want, in the north and in the south, the establishment of new modes of production and consumption based on sustainable water management.
we want to promote ecological agriculture and new irrigation systems.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has adopted a report on the proposal for a council regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of consumers.
since this report is part of the enhanced hughes procedure, the committee on the environment and the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism would normally have prepared it in the same way.
as rapporteur for the committee on the environment, i can say that society has rarely had a debate as lively and as intense as the one on prestige.
for my part, with the rapporteur in the background, i participated in all the initiatives on behalf of the committee on the environment to arrive at this report, which is relatively complete, the committee on the environment having worked on the more specific aspect of the environment.
i would therefore like to take up four points, four demands from the committee on the environment: the first concerns the priority of recovering fuel oil.
we are calling for the implementation of the habitats directive and the classification of natura 2000 areas, as well as for the means to restore the natural environment, the coasts, the marine environment and the marine flora.
thirdly, commissioner, firefighting vessels will have to become pollution-removal vessels.
all those responsible for the pollution chain must be able to be held financially and criminally liable.
this is the watchword and the objective sought in relation to maritime disasters with serious ecological, economic and human impacts, such as oil spills.
in 1981, immediately after the exxon valdez sinking, the united states introduced the oil pollution act (opa); if we had done the same here in europe in 1987, 1991 or 1992, the accidents of the braer, the sea empress, the erika and the prestige, to name only the most serious, would certainly have been avoided.
they are also closed seas where there is a very important traffic of oil tankers, and where any catastrophic pollution would have far more negative consequences than in the baltic sea, because of the problem of regeneration, cleaning and renewal of the waters they have.
almost a year ago, we saw almost epic images: the sailors of the galician rivers faced what seemed an inevitable catastrophe and fought with all the means they had, even with means of fortune, to stop a black tide that seemed to be about to enter definitively into the very rich galician rivers, the rías bajas, which are a source and nursery of life and biodiversity in europe.
in these months we can speed up, for example, the question of criminal liability, which i am still hoping we will get through; we can, for example, convince the council not to require unanimity from us in order to be able to criminalise marine pollution, as we have demanded from the commission, and as i hope that you will support.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the following reports are requested for joint debate: - report (a5-0295/2003) by mr mombaur, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive concerning measures to safeguard the security of natural gas supply (com (2002) 488 - c5-0449/2002 - 2002/0220 (cod)) - report (a5-0297/2003) by mr karlsson, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to measures to be taken against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from diesel engines for use in vehicles (com (2002) 488 - c5-0448/2002 - 2002/0219 (cod)) - report (a5-0293/2003) by mr karlsson, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a council directive repealing council directives 68/414/eec and 98/93/ec requiring member states of the eec to maintain minimum stocks of petroleum and/or petroleum products and council directive 73/238/eec on measures to mitigate the effects of difficulties in the supply of crude oil and petroleum products (com (2002) 488 - c5-0489/2002 - 2002/0221 (cns))
- madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, our debate this evening proves once again that energy is not a commodity like any other.
just as the fate of alstom's 120,000 employees cannot be decided by the rules of free competition, so the future and energy independence - and thus the political independence of europe - cannot be secured by simply applying the rules and principles of the free market.
i am in favour of greater gas and oil reserves, which can make it possible, in the event of a serious crisis, to reduce the possibility of resorting to war in a world where, as we know, control of energy is often the first cause.
full employment and sustainable development - he considered that in order to obtain this support, it was sufficient to pursue the first objective, namely cost stability.
such an approach, which deprives states of their prerogatives in managing energy supplies, was therefore unacceptable.
- despite the displeasure of all kinds of sovereignists, it is more logical to build up energy reserves at the level of the union as a whole than at the level of each of the small and medium-sized states which make up it.
- the sinking of the prestige, which caused a major ecological and economic disaster, is a stark reminder of the urgency of making maritime safety a major issue at european and global level.
the aim is to allow for a restructuring of the company which at the same time preserves the proper functioning of the internal market, the only guarantee of sustainable employment.
in the present case, however, contrary to what was expected, if there had been no state aid, global economic competition would have been severely distorted with, on the one hand, what would have remained of european industries in the strategic energy and railway sectors and, on the other hand, american giants such as general electric or japanese ones such as mitsubishi.
alstom's demise, which would have led to the downfall of asean brown boveri, would have dramatically reduced europe's supply of electric turbines and high-speed trains, at a time when the climate crisis and the kyoto agreement call for huge investments in both these areas.
this is only possible by developing comparative evaluations focused on sustainable and responsible production and consumption: this is the real consumer protection policy.
other, more supportive and sustainable ways of addressing the issue of long-term financing are possible.
i therefore hope, ladies and gentlemen, that tomorrow, when the plenary votes on my colleague mr jonckheer's report, it will confirm an agreement which is today, admittedly, minimalist, by inscribing it in a perspective of evolution in the service of the environment in europe.
- vice-chairman of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, i voted against the directive on computer-implemented inventions, which remains a confusing text opening the door to software patentability.
- in the name of alleged ecological principles, which have been set up as dogmas and placed above real social life, this report, which speaks of the taxation of energy products and electricity, does not specify which social category is affected by this taxation.
with these premises, the european union presented itself in cancún, but as you know our hopes, our hopes, our commitments were shattered at the summit, in a hot, scorching climate, not only because of the weather.
and this is perhaps also linked to the crisis of other international organizations, starting with bretton woods, which are not doing their job, and those on other issues - i am thinking of labour, the environment, agriculture itself - which are overloading the wto agenda?
we paid the price in doha, reluctantly agreeing not to negotiate the links between basic social clauses and trade rules and moderating our environmental ambitions.
modernization of existing rules or the adoption of new rules in areas that are dear to us, such as the environment, is confronted with the heterogeneity of policy choices that are the other face of the growing participation of nations in international trade.
we ask this when we talk about patents, public health, the environment, social clauses and in the south, when we talk about non-reciprocal market access.
this is a big point: in cancun i saw a lack of democracy at the negotiating table and in the general climate.
until we have found ways of making the southern states understand what the second pillar of agriculture, the social, environmental and food safety rules, are about, until we allow them to adopt the same rules to protect rural populations, we will not be able to find a situation in which they can understand us.
the manufacture of these solvents results in ozone emissions, the effects of which are harmful to both man and nature.
the aim is to offer the industrialists concerned production methods which are more respectful of public health, including at the workplace, and the environment, by limiting the use of these solvents.
several other hypotheses were investigated, such as climate, general pollution or misuse of plant protection products.
in fact, according to experts and professionals, one main cause is well identified: the environment of the apiaries, when it includes fields of honey, rapeseed, sunflower, maize, whose seeds have been treated with insecticides of the gaucho or regent type.
so the gaucho and regent molecules could be harmful, not just to bees but to a much wider environment.
this is why, in the face of this risk of widespread poisoning of the ecosystem - and perhaps of people - we demand the application of the precautionary principle.
shouldn't the atomic energy agency step in and do its job?
the report stresses the need to create synergies between civil and military activities - i am sure mr bodrato will agree - while advocating the peaceful use of space, which i support; he wanted satellite systems to serve not only transport and the environment but also security, so that europe would have its own strategy, its own management body and its own resources.
but i am convinced that space must serve primarily peaceful purposes: the needs are immense, whether it is the environment or risk management.
this does not mean that other causes, such as general pollution in rural and urban areas, cannot have an influence.
– mr president, firstly i should like to thank the rapporteur, mrs redondo jiménez, for her report concerning the forest focus regulation on monitoring of forests and environmental interactions, and for her flexibility in presenting the compromise package designed to reach a second reading agreement.
in addition to this core task of monitoring, i want to reassure you that the commission places great importance on the need to ensure the continuity of the measures covered by the two previous regulations concerning the protection of forests against air pollution and fire.
as mrs redondo jiménez has rightly explained, we must consider the forest in all its dimensions: environmental dimension with pollution problems, economic, tourist and social dimensions.
finally, and above all, the restoration of destroyed forests must be carried out with intelligence, by selecting species adapted to the terrain and climate and more likely to withstand fires.
- mr president, climate change, heat waves, environmental crime: all these phenomena have led to disasters this summer, which must be combated at all levels.
finally, we ask that biodiversity be a factor in the selection of projects because it is true that it is difficult to explain what biodiversity is, but in the forestry sector we know very well how important it is.
so, in the context of, for example, reforestation, it has to be done by restoring this forest biodiversity that was damaged, or even completely destroyed, in the fires this summer.
it is also important to emphasise the difficulty of identifying all the sources of pollution, especially in estuary environments, located at the mouths of watersheds of a very large area drained by rivers.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, global warming is a phenomenon we all experience on a daily basis.
the heat wave that hit us hard this summer is a reminder of the seriousness of the problem of greenhouse gas emissions.
there is an urgent need for sustainable solutions.
the european union must of course comply with the kyoto objectives and above all contribute to ensuring sustainable development for future generations.
the proposal for a decision, voted on at this part-session, is an important element of the european union's greenhouse gas emission regulations.
in addition to the environmental aspect, it should be borne in mind that governments and industry are leading actors in this area.
the text in question makes it possible to set up an efficient and reliable system for accounting for emissions and projections, which is essential for a european assessment that can be applied worldwide.
as regards the current members, too much information is still missing, mainly on carbon sinks.
the combination of environmental concerns, economic interests and governmental blockages is a complex exercise but relatively successful in this case.
- mr president, i would like to congratulate the rapporteur and my colleagues on the environment committee, both on my own behalf and on behalf of my group, for working together effectively to bring forward compromise amendments to pass this report in a single reading.
the emergency procedure was undoubtedly rigorous in the face of the terrible scourge of greenhouse gases and their consequences in terms of climate change, not to mention the impacts on ecosystems and biodiversity.
the latest studies show that, unfortunately, emissions have generally started to increase since the year 2000 and, if the european environment agency's 2001 forecasts are to be believed, the overall emissions in the european union of the six gases considered to be responsible for global climate change would be 1% higher than in the year 2000. this proves that the legal instrument of supervision implemented within the european union, via its 1993 decision, must be tightened up, and this is the subject of the proposal under study and debate.
my group of course supports the new requirements for improving the quality and accuracy of policy and measurement information, including on emissions and removals of all greenhouse gases, not to mention methodological aspects.
this is a considerable challenge, but it must be met if europe is to have a balanced and sustainable transport system.
that is when we should be holding this debate, mr jarzembowski, and i hope we can still complete the first reading here, so as not to waste this work.
of course, the importance of this development of railways for the environment and safety is perfectly clear.
we need to invest in infrastructure, provide financial compensation for rail dumping, based on the model we have in the field of renewable energy sources, where we subsidize losses to compensate for the fact that producers of energy from non-renewable sources do not pay for the impact on the environment, and finally put an end to social dumping.
- (sv) we have voted for compromise amendments 22 to 33 to the report on the monitoring of forests and environmental interactions in the community (forest focus).
and ideally we would prefer not to see fire prevention measures mentioned in this regulation, since such measures have no place in this environmental monitoring programme.
- (pt) i voted in favour of this report, which is part of the european community's strategy to meet the requirements of the united nations framework convention on climate change (unfccc) and the kyoto protocol.
i would remind you that in kyoto it was decided that the union should reduce its gas emissions by 8% compared to 1990 levels over the period 2008-2012. adopting this monitoring mechanism, in the form proposed here, is a fundamental condition for achieving the sustainability targets that the union has set itself, first in copenhagen and then in lisbon.
in conclusion, i welcome the fact that the european commission has decided to submit an inventory of greenhouse gases in the community to the secretariat of the abovementioned unfccc by 15 april each year.
finally, i turn to mr goodwill, who was surprised to see that we were giving the european environment agency additional tasks without giving it new resources.
it is not often that we see so many honourable people in history who have blackened so much paper and spent so much energy in pursuit of this strange and pathological goal of making their country disappear.
this wall is a human, ecological catastrophe, but it is also a disgrace to the values we defend.
we must ask the commission and the council to intervene in the un security council to send an intervention force to protect the palestinian people, their heritage and their environment.
it seems to us - and you know we have already said this to you on several occasions - that the commission is having difficulty in finding the levers for transferring funds to this type of enterprise, whether it be european investment bank funds for normative, environmental and new technology investments, or experimental funds, especially in the field of social law in the enterprise.
these entrepreneurs, both men and women, deserve special attention from the commission in view of their importance for the stability of the socioeconomic fabric, the sustainability of employment and the risks they take.
these initiatives are not only the work of individuals who are willing to take risks, but also the result of a general environment that offers conditions of equal opportunities.
the important thing now is to try to build european leaders on the basis of sustainable development.
it is a general problem affecting the whole of the cfp and i am pleased that our committee on fisheries has asked stoa, on my initiative, to provide us with information on the impact of global warming on fish stocks.
but for years, european policy has been at the forefront of 'performance', 'profitability' and 'sustainable development'.
small fishermen have paid the price, and so have the taxpayers, who have subsidised aid... so that the big arms companies can continue to prosper, "sustainable development" being only that of their profits.
i support the savary report on the creation of a european railway agency whose board would include representatives of the employees' organisations and take account of environmental, social and safety aspects in line with the ainardi proposals.
i also welcome the work of the rapporteur, who underlines the importance of an industrial policy that is social and environmental, by choosing to place her text in the context of the three pillars of sustainable development and in that of the conclusions of the european summits in lisbon and gothenburg.
the profound changes that are coming to the industrial fabric are opportunities to reduce the environmental impact of certain activities.
unfortunately, there is still a paragraph in the text - which the greens voted against, because it considered fuel cells and hydrogen to be alternative energy sources - which calls for investment in nanotechnologies, without any legal framework and no idea of the health and environmental consequences (think of gmos!
i would of course have preferred to go much further in the means of implementation (including in the constitutional framework) and in environmental matters, without forgetting the social and human dimensions.
we want to maintain a number of cotton crops and many olive groves in the european union, effectively avoiding depopulation or desertification of the areas concerned, but also correcting the effects of the current aid systems either on the level of production, on the environment or on the finances of the european union.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the regulation to include the following areas: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against pollution caused by nitrates from agricultural sources.
the environmental angle chosen by the european commission does not suit me either.
the commission is proposing to increase the value of the annual traffic tax rather than the registration tax, and above all to systematize the fight against pollution by harmonising taxation principles.
of course, we are outraged by the absurd and socially unjust evolution of urban organisation and transport systems, and their effects on the environment.
but it is particularly hypocritical to blame the penalisation of pollution on the salaried people who buy cars, even the most modest ones.
the shift towards more efficient and less polluting transport systems is firstly the massive development of public transport, the drastic decrease in the share of road transport by lorry in favour of less polluting and less dangerous modes of transport, and the imposition of stricter anti-pollution standards for manufacturers.
, it should be recalled that the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
it welcomed the fact that the vote in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy was a clear majority in favour of community funding for research projects involving the extraction of human embryonic stem cells from surplus embryos and, therefore, in favour of the creation of new lines.
- the next item is the report (a5-0389/2003) by mr linkohr, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the communication 'investing in research: an action plan for europe' (com (2003) 226 - c5-0381/2003 - 2003/2148 (ini)).
the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- a5-0374/2003 by mrs imelda mary read, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council amending council regulation (ec) no 2236/95 laying down general rules for the granting of community financial assistance in the field of trans-european networks [com (2003) 220 - c5-0199/2003 - 2003/0086cod] - a5-0375/2003 by mrs imelda mary read, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of pan-european electronic communications services for government, public administrations and citizens (bcre) [com (2003) 4036 final] - 2003/05/06 (cod) ] - a5-095/2003 by mrs imelda mary read, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a decision of the european parliament and of the council on the interoperability of pan-european electronic communications services for government, public administrations and citizens (bcre) [com (2003) 4036 final] - 2003/06 - c5-09590 (com (2003) 6 final) ], on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the implementation of the regulation of the european parliament and of the external energy market in electricity regulation of the european union (com (2003) 4095/2003)
- madam president, i shall stick to one point: is there a need for a european telecommunications regulation?
i would have liked nick to have taken better account of the analyses of leading oxford and cambridge economists, who point out that, while competition policy acts ex post, regulation is necessary ex ante to meet economic, social and ecological objectives.
the experience of the past few months has shown that liberalisation without incentives to invest in networks such as energy or transport could lead to a temporary or even long-term collapse of these networks.
- research is an essential element for europe to return to a sustainable path of growth.
i say sustainable, because it is not just a question of boosting economic activity in the short term, but of ensuring the existence of an innovative and vital european industry in the long term, in line with the objectives of lisbon and gothenburg.
this regulation is a regrettable transaction between capitalists at the expense of the safety of life at sea and the marine environment, in order to increase excessive profits.
technical, social and environmental security must remain the objective to be preserved, whatever the reform implemented.
similarly, in the field of self-help, social and environmental security could be jeopardised by the direct use by shipowners of their own equipment and personnel, who will be inexperienced, untrained, and casual.
while the entire supply chain - piloting, docking and unloading - requires professionals trained in such exercises to avoid any risk of accident, self-help will level the services provided, professional qualifications and environmental safety from the bottom up, adding a social cost linked to job cuts.
this will enable any shipowner to use labour at a discount, which is dangerous for ports and their environment.
all these sectors should be considered as key partners contributing to the objective of maritime security and sustainable development.
for the sake of safety, employment and the sustainable development of european ports, we must reject this text.
the consequences will be the loss of stable jobs in port areas and the increase in the number of precarious, low-paid, over-exploited, inexperienced workers, with all the threats to the environment and safety that this entails.
its implementation would be a threat to all those who make their living from port activities; it would increase the risk of accidents and pollution.
the report also proposes the creation of cancer registries to target firstly population groups with a high prevalence for environmental or dietary reasons.
it is necessary to act upstream, to identify the influence of factors such as nutrition, environment, lifestyle and to try to reduce their importance.
similarly, pollution, electromagnetic waves and other chemical factors have been shown to increase the risk of certain cancers.
many european policies and directives, such as the fourth water directive and the sixth environmental programme, deal with soil protection.
a whole range of projects and directives on environmental responsibility also deal with this subject.
the new directive now covers chemical and thermal processing operations in mining as well as all operational tailings disposal facilities containing dangerous mining waste.
taking into account the results of two studies carried out by the commission, the directive also includes more carcinogenic substances, and the qualifying quantities for substances toxic to the aquatic environment have been significantly decreased.
the euro-mediterranean framework can be a valuable asset in helping to create a climate of trust that allows for genuine dialogue.
we must get shipping out of the profit maximisation laws and create another international maritime organisation which is able to respect social needs, workers and the environment.
the prestige oil tanker disaster, which occurred just a year ago, and its human, social and environmental consequences remind us every day, from a coruña to calais, of these needs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
all these indications encourage the commission's action, and we are encouraged by the favourable opinion of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on the creation of the european common market for defence equipment and by the explicit support for various commission proposals in this respect.
during this whole period, therefore, a great deal has been done, but we have also made a point that has been repeatedly made, namely that our defence industries are in dire need of reform, otherwise we will continue to waste funds unnecessarily.
the directive proposed nothing more or less than the generalization of pleasure ports and social dumping to the detriment of safety, workers and the environment.
it is up to us politicians to continue to listen to these professionals and to develop public port services at european level, the only ones capable of guaranteeing safety, regularity, continuity, quality, social achievements and respect for the environment.
the commission has also proposed that the commission should be given the task of drawing up a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
this pact must be counter-cyclical and, at the same time, it must not hamper countries in difficulty but, on the contrary, punish those countries which abuse their facilities and, in this way, by a kind of climate gold rule, protect future investments from the cyclical situation.
reform of the stability pact must be accompanied by a reinforced european economic, social, employment, tax and environmental policy in order to stimulate investment in general.
- mr president, commissioner, on the subject of the directive, we can only agree with the need to reduce sulphur emissions into the atmosphere from maritime transport, which must make the same efforts in this respect as land transport.
we are all aware of the importance of protecting the environment and the fact that this directive reflects the polluter pays principle.
the environmental contingency that this would imply for companies seems to me exaggerated and i support mrs thyssen's amendment, which would reduce this deadline to 10 years: it is much more logical to reduce the period during which companies must be considered responsible for the environmental damage caused.
my colleagues and i also wanted to take the environmental aspect of the drug into account.
we all know, for example, that chemotherapy products can cause harmful environmental releases, but we cannot imagine banning their authorization.
the aim is to better assess this environmental risk and, for all classes of therapeutics, to take effective measures to reduce impacts.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled a number of amendments to the proposal.
in terms of public health, the environmental impact of new medicines should be assessed.
the environmental risk goes far beyond damage to nature, pollution linked to the release of toxic drug residues is a danger to human health.
of course, therapies whose medical benefit outweighs the environmental risks must continue to be used.
- legislation on environmental liability is like opening pandora's box, since environmental damage is ill-defined and its scope of application is vague, particularly in the area of biodiversity, which is already governed by two major international conventions, those of berne and bonn.
for liability to apply, it must be based on objective and quantifiable criteria: the nature of the damage and its impact, the state of the environment at the time of the damage and, above all, local circumstances.
more generally, what is the point of recognising the european commission as having jurisdiction, when the criminalisation of environmental crime is a matter for judicial cooperation and other legal instruments such as the council of europe's lugano convention could be used?
total distances are getting longer, roads are getting more expensive, total pollution is increasing.
we must, as the famous english saying goes, see the bigger picture, because if we make transport in europe expensive, so that total pollution increases, who will pay for it?
it is essential that the widest possible representation of civil society be heard and be able to use funding independent of their state authorities, in order to strengthen as much as possible the independence of social movements fighting for sustainable development, human and social rights, democratisation or cultural pluralism.
- mr president, given the scale of the various problems posed by gmos, on which no obvious scientific conclusion is necessary, the question of the coexistence of the gmo and non-gmo sectors must be considered in a sustainable way and not as a transitional situation to be managed while waiting for the gmo sector to become the dominant or even exclusive sector.
moreover, the 2004 financial year once again demonstrates that a number of associations and organisations, in line with the commission's views on the future of the european union or more specifically on the prospects for a policy such as that of the environment, are benefiting from appropriations of their own or from certain programmes designed for that purpose.
we voted against this text and we would like to stress that the introduction of this system only fuels the conciliation and bargaining, but it does not in any way put an end to the harm to the population and the environment.
- of course, no one can argue against energy saving or renewable energy.
the fight for agricultural diversity, for the effective and sustainable plurality of sectors, is therefore an integral and essential part of the fight for cultural diversity.
these natural disasters raise the fundamental question of climate change and prevention for which research is needed.
in future, these funds should no longer be based on zoning but should correspond to specific objectives, one of which would be environmental and risk prevention.
in the face of the changes taking place on our planet, we need collective courage to meet these ecological challenges.
however, we cannot be satisfied with wishful thinking when we see the climate change that is taking place on our planet.
the climate changes, with heat waves, storms and sudden rises in water.
how many times have we in this house, the greens and the regionalists, said that we must certainly use the tax weapon to change behaviour that is dangerous for the climate?
and we are still waiting for this tax on pollution, this tax on emissions that are changing the atmosphere of our planet and that are ultimately destroying entire regions.
it is therefore obvious that these funds must be reformed and perhaps all those structural funds which are not being used on the ground, but are being reimbursed to the community and then to the national budgets, could be better used for prevention in order to cope with this climate.
some people will talk about global warming, the collision between the warm air masses coming from the mediterranean and the cold air masses stationed in my house in roussillon.
the camargue, whose ecosystem is so fragile, is completely submerged: 250 km of damaged dikes, 560 hectares of crops covered by water, more than 1000 animals drowned, the entire rice chain destroyed.
the process of economic reform must continue to be supported by the european union more than ever, in order to restore a climate that encourages foreign and domestic investment.
georgia must know that it can count on strong support from the union to finally regain some stability in a climate of democracy and transparency.
wishing you all a very good holiday and full of energy to conclude your fifth term in 2004, i hereby declare the session of the european parliament adjourned.