subnational authorities therefore already have an important role to play, both in the application of european legislation – for instance much of our environmental legislation imposes requirements on local authorities to deal with packaging and waste – and even, in some cases, in the transposition of directives into domestic legislation, as is the situation in belgium, for example.
i am interested in understanding how this links to the current treaty requirement in article 6 to integrate the environment into policies and practices of the european union.
we are pleased that in future we are going to be monitoring policies in terms of a social sustainable development emphasis.
given that the spring summit is supposed to be about sustainability, i am also interested to know what proposals there will be from council about how it is going to change its own structures to deal with this much more integrated approach.
my supplementary question to the commissioner is: given recent maritime disasters off the spanish coast, and indeed in the english channel, does she agree with me that it is only a matter of time before a passenger ferry and a rogue oil tanker collide, with devastating environmental and indeed human consequences?
equally important are the data provided by mr mantovani, which demonstrate that the deterioration in the sustainability of social systems, particularly in the provision of care for the elderly, is dramatic and that cooperation at european level is indeed required.
so we need to find a sustainable way of keeping people active and healthy for as long as possible.
hand-in-hand with this is the importance of a multi-agency approach to coordinating care and a multi-sectoral approach to policy-making, to include social, employment, environmental and economic considerations as well as the need to involve users and their families.
i have some concern about the climate of it.
we decided that a blanket target date was not sustainable and so we looked for a timetable, and as a validated alternative becomes available for each test, that test on animals will be banned.
but i am confident, as are many other members of this house who know the lebanon well, that the energy and the determination of the lebanese people will win through.
it will involve matters that have to do with the eu's regional and environmental policy.
the environment and climate in the far north is important to european solidarity.
i am concerned about the environmental hazards in the far north and i strongly urge the russians to sign the mnepr agreement, as they have agreed to do, on joint action for decommissioning of their spent nuclear fuel rods and warheads rotting in their naval submarines which might contaminate the murmansk area.
the northern dimension has ensured that we are able to focus on developments in the baltic area, in terms of energy supplies, telecommunications, and economic assistance.
the implementation of sound, sustainable tariff policies is therefore absolutely necessary, as is the implementation of tariff policies acceptable to the population.
my second point concerns the environment.
the environment is at the heart of the institution's mandate.
any strategy must ensure that aquaculture is sustainable, competitive and economically viable as an activity, taking into account environmental and social concerns – including the need to prevent escapes and to have a sustainable means of feeding farmed fish – so that a high–quality, safe product is ensured.
but it is also an industry which requires, as mr ó neachtain said earlier, to adhere to the strictest standards of compliance with best practice in the fields of the environment, welfare, health and food safety, particularly if consumer confidence in its products is to be increased.
sustainable development has to be the watchword.
however as the rapporteur himself points out, more research is necessary in tackling the environmental problems which fish farming creates, particularly the disposal of waste – an average sized fish farm can produce as much waste as a small town.
as the rapporteur's report rightly points out, the external future of the cfp dimension cannot ignore the community's commitments at international level, whether those relating to the cfsp, those relating to trade or, i would even venture to add, those relating to sustainable development, especially in relation to certain groups of countries - such as the developing countries - or our fight for better global governance, both from the political and economic point of view.
i am confident that the communication on fisheries partnership agreements adopted by the commission will be an opportunity to make significant and innovative progress in the external chapter of the cfp and that together we will be able to create a dynamic that ensures the sustainability of high-altitude fisheries in the interests of us all.
i hope that the european parliament shares this analysis and therefore agrees that a situation must be avoided which would lead to a significant reduction in the role of community policy in external fisheries which would be in contradiction with our desire to establish a policy geared to the sustainability of fisheries within a global fisheries perspective.
we must seek responsible and sustainable fisheries everywhere.
these deals are causing environmental devastation to less developed countries which, in biological terms, is like setting fire to the serengeti.
the frightening fact is that this technology exposes them to noise pollution at levels 200 billion times greater than that which we know already disturbs them, and so it is not really surprising that we are already seeing deaths from lung haemorrhages, from hearing loss and disruption of feeding, breeding and communication.
but this technology also constitutes a breach of the united nations law of the sea convention which requires states to take all measures that are necessary to prevent, reduce and control pollution in the marine environment from any source.
we had hoped too that the council might have been prepared to make a statement on lfas here this afternoon as well and i am disappointed that it is not here, but there is a clear role for the commission as well and i have two specific questions for it: will it agree to conduct a study on the impact of lfas on the marine environment, and will it ensure that the subject is raised in the transatlantic dialogue?
in bitter winter conditions, the combination of few or no energy sources and lack of food is crippling.
but there is a need to reconsider fundamentally our approach to ensuring energy supplies.
the korean energy development organisation, kedo, was unsuited to meeting the country's needs and infrastructure, and this situation cannot be allowed to continue.
we condemned it and the european union's approach to the energy crisis needs to be completely overhauled.
i was pleased to hear commissioner patten declare that the european union will have to develop an alternative energy programme for north korea.
we consider that the operation of nuclear programmes is a major problem for the maintenance of both world peace and the fragile balance of the environment in the event of even peaceful but uncontrolled use, which unfortunately does not exclude the possibility of trade in nuclear materials.
these are the non-proliferation treaty, the international atomic energy agency's agreement on guarantees, the north-south joint declaration on nuclear disarmament, and the framework agreement, the violation of which also calls into question the kedo framework agreement on the supply of oil.
in a series of statements, the european union expressed its deep concern at these developments, called for the immediate withdrawal of north korea's decision to withdraw from the treaty on the non-proliferation of nuclear weapons and for the re-establishment of cooperation with the international atomic energy agency, and also stated its commitment to work towards a peaceful solution, in agreement with the united states in particular, but also in cooperation with the countries in the region directly concerned.
the protection of the country's inhabitants from the difficulties in daily life caused by the lack of adequate energy resources is also an issue that cannot be overlooked.
the north korean side must understand that the npt and the safeguards of the international atomic energy agency are in the best interests of all states and peoples and must be respected by all.
the antagonisms have obviously been increased by the discovery last november that north korea has been carrying out a covert programme of uranium enrichment in violation of the engagements it undertook in 1994 under the agreed framework, when the korean energy development organisation (kedo) was set up to ensure that nuclear energy supplies to the dprk under international supervision reduced the risk of war.
plainly, if the international community is once again willing to help north korea to address its enormous internal problems of shortages of energy, food and all other basic needs, this could also assist to get the country out of the crisis.
this report by the united nations security council is a seminal report in that it sets out for the first time to establish that international law incorporates a moral right to a concept of shared sovereignty, that sovereignty is not merely what is defined in the montevideo convention or president wilson's 14-point rule, and that in a global trading environment as we see now with the wto and global rules on trade, we have to share our sovereignty when the rule of law becomes paramount.
the decision to move towards low sulphur diesel across the union should mean an end to the noisy, smelly, expensive and rather larger diesel engines and other off-road vehicles that disturb our air quality, the peace of our environment and communities.
it is not just about huge amounts of development money; the aid needs to be sustainable.
the planning process is an essential element of sustainable development in that it covers land use planning and provides the physical framework for our way of life.
third parties are also not allowed to participate in the whole process; this is potentially depriving the procedure of a certain level of expertise and is contrary to our common goal of sustainable development, which is to take responsibility for our environment.
we want to achieve a balanced outcome, firstly because we have to solve what is a major, sometimes dramatic, social problem in many developing countries, and secondly because this situation clearly weighs on the climate of confidence which must necessarily prevail around the world trade organisation table to make progress in the doha negotiations.
so we have worked very hard to try to find a solution that is both legally sound and sustainable, rejecting a moratorium on dispute settlement as a solution to this issue and rejecting, from the outset, the idea of derogations.
we must find a multilateral solution as soon as possible, a sustainable and fair solution, which provides a sufficient degree of legal certainty for all the actors to be able to mobilise.
we know that the temporary framework which allows them to do so today is not sustainable, and in that respect we do not want, we cannot disappoint them.
our approach is essentially to ask for clarification or updating of rules in areas such as environmental protection, rural development, animal welfare, consumer information, the precautionary principle and the protection of geographical indications.
naturally we have the interest of european producers and consumers in higher food quality, rural development, environment protection and animal welfare.
we have also launched substantial studies on this subject - we call them impact and sustainability studies - to analyse the social, economic and environmental impacts of these agreements, which - i would remind you - are first and foremost agreements between these countries, and we will ensure that the results of these studies are taken into account throughout the negotiations.
it is clear that a european road safety agency would be a total waste of taxpayers' money and another pointless layer of bureaucracy.
if i may finally say, this proposal was a complete waste of an opportunity by the commission to come up with far-reaching, innovative ideas which many of us may have been able to support.
the keys to higher employment levels and sustainable growth lie in sound public finances, a dynamic private sector, the completion of the single market, a real european research area and incentives for work, skill and innovation.
but the question i particularly want to raise with the council and commission this morning is linked to the issue of sustainable development, which is an overarching and not just an additional concept, and the place of göteborg and not just lisbon within this whole process.
we need to ask them to look at this and assess whether the present 'free for all' really encourages sustainability, democracy and openness in many of the regimes and countries within which they are operating.
i respect his energy in pursuing that subject.
in today's climate, however, there is another barrier.
fifth and last, as regards the major services of public interest - education, health, culture, water, energy, public transport - each country is free to choose between different formulas.
eliminate or reduce a number of barriers to entry in several sectors where the union has world-class enterprises - telecoms, business services, professional services, financial services, construction, distribution, transport, energy, tourism.
first, on trade in energy services.
we are not proposing any improvements to our commitments at this stage, pending the completion of ongoing work in the wto on the classification of energy services under the services agreement.
in your letter last october to the chair of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, you accused parliamentarians of making false claims about what you called the alleged intransparency of the eu decision-making process.
would it not be more appropriate to adopt a new mandate and in it make explicit the rights of public authorities and institutions at all levels to regulate public services in order to maintain social and environmental standards free from challenge under gats?
i would also like to thank the members of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy for the seriousness with which they have analysed this report.
the adoption of this directive will provide specific legislation to combat greenhouse gas emissions in the transport sector as well.
the directive also brings benefits from the point of view of energy security and, at a certain point, may lead to the creation of jobs in rural areas.
as you know, this proposal is now part of the framework directive on energy taxation and i think there has been some very encouraging progress recently and we hope that the council will soon be able to adopt it and we will have it.
with the european union already importing 50% of its energy needs and this rising to 70% by 2030, it is important that we exploit all possible indigenous resources of energy as well as promoting greater diversity of energy sources.
by developing biofuels and other renewable energies we are contributing to increased security of supply.
we are also hoping to improve our environment with better air quality and a reduction in greenhouse gases.
we are also concerned that the proposals as they stand will not necessarily result in any major real environmental benefits: production methods for most biofuels use substantial amounts of energy and create high carbon dioxide emissions.
member states must decide to promote biofuels that give an overall cost-effective benefit to the environment.
most importantly we must also invest in research to improve the cost effectiveness and environmental benefits of biofuel crops in the future.
therefore, a sustainable plan must include all three dimensions of sustainability, including economic and social consequences.
the difficult task of arriving at a quota figure that is sustainable, yet scientifically credible, remains.
for colleagues whose constituencies are landlocked i offer the following analogy: supposing for good environmental reasons, such as a drastic cut in co2 omissions, road haulage operators were told by the eu that they could only use their lorries for two weeks out of every four, and then only on condition that a significant proportion of the vehicles were taken off the road altogether.
our common ambition must be to foster sustained growth, stronger cohesion, better environmental protection, a reduction in disparities and, eventually, the adoption of the euro by everyone.
i am confident that our interinstitutional cooperation will result in a work programme that is in line with our ambitions: the commission's proposal is to set up a european network of national experts to assist the member states in the implementation of the european union's policy on the environment.
it is right that we should have a range of ideas, with working groups set up by the commission dealing with peace and prosperity and with questions of sustainable development.
concerning sustainable growth, it makes sense to have better integration of environmental concerns.
the new members will participate from the outset in all the programmes financed by the european budget: in agricultural, structural and environmental policy, in research programmes and in the promotion of transeuropean networks, for example.
but from the outset, competition law and environmental law must also be implemented in the new member states.
sustainable growth is another priority.
what concerns us as well is that the present text again lacks a mechanism for sustainability, that is, an environmental dimension that really must be incorporated into all that we are doing.
too often we see that the poorest people in the worst quality jobs also live in the worst environment.
if we are really going to do something to upgrade employment or our social environment, we need to take account of the physical environment.
this directive is of particular strategic importance, not just for our capital markets, but also for our labour markets and perhaps, more importantly, for the sustainability of our public finances and our pension systems as a whole.
and we face problems like poverty, the environment, equality, nationalist crises, fundamentalism.
and, as mrs berès and many others have said about the un, it is an opportunity to strengthen that organisation, because the interdependence of developments on the international scene, technological, economic, political, environmental developments, which create interdependence of interests, poses the problem of global governance.
and the issue of global governance raises the fundamental question of what principles, what values, we will shape this global governance so that it will function in a world that has many problems, but that can be solved peacefully, with a sense of justice and with respect for the human being and our environment.
this is a vital part of a sustainable diet for europeans in the future.
council i would simply like to point out that directive 2001/106/ec of the european parliament and of the council amending council directive 95/21 on the enforcement, in respect of shipping using community ports or navigating through waters under the jurisdiction of a member state, of international standards for ship safety, pollution prevention and shipboard living and working conditions.
the legislators' dilemma is to produce good effective law which protects the consumer, while allowing business to thrive in a dynamic and competitive environment.
i therefore move the deletion of those words, with the support of mrs thyssen and mr bushill-matthews, who jointly moved amendments in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy originally.
for example, five million new jobs have been created since the start of the lisbon strategy, 500 000 of them in 2002. despite the more unfavourable economic climate, the unemployed fell by 2 million.
the european energy, transport and financial services markets must be opened up.
improve the regulatory environment and consumer protection.
the last priority is environmental protection, which boosts growth and creates new jobs.
it means taking environmental action and boosting investment in clean and resource-saving technologies.
for example, concrete achievements include the agreement on better coordination of fiscal policies, the agreement on a transparent and economic european patent after 14 years of effort, progress in the integration of european financial markets, new guidelines for the revised employment strategy, the establishment of the tripartite social conference, the institutionalized tripartite social conference, the agreement on the taxation of energy products, the establishment of environmental objectives in areas such as renewable energy sources, energy intensity, biofuels.
the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
in the modern world, we seek to end war, the reign of terror, the threats to man and his environment by creating rules of global governance.
for example, paragraph 60 onwards of the presidency conclusions mentioned promoting sustainable development on a global scale.
those conclusions talked about enhancement of corporate social and environmental responsibility, both at eu level and internationally.
the conclusions also mention the means of promoting sustainable and fair trade.
i wonder if we have actually proofed some of the other policies that we came up with at this spring summit against those ambitions or, indeed, ambitions to encourage export credits that are consistent with sustainable development when certain member states pay out over 50% of their export credits to enable arms deals to go ahead.
(applause from the left)i will, however, move on now to the economic part of the spring summit, focusing upon two aspects: progress in innovation and enterprise, and environmental protection.
as far as environmental protection is concerned, let me highlight intelligent energy, for which i am the rapporteur in this parliament.
levies on pesticides will fall heavily on the new expensive products, which by and large cause less ecological concern than some of the older, cheaper, off-patent products.
this is an important directive, as it would introduce a ban on the cleaning agent 'nonylphenol' that has been identified as posing unacceptable risks to the aquatic environment.
it is a very far-reaching proposal, as it bans the marketing and use of nine different applications where the substance could be released into the aquatic environment.
the proposed directive provides not only for the protection of human health and the environment, but also preserves the internal market, as it would introduce harmonised rules throughout the community.
the commission will address parliament's concerns by seriously looking at potentially problematic products which could pose unacceptable risks to health and the environment.
one of the tragedies of our planet is the waste of human intelligence and creativity in countries which have been politically discriminatory or else riven by poverty.
i would like to conclude by expressing my warm thanks to the rapporteur, mr caudron, and to the shadow rapporteurs, mr nisticò and mr piétrasanta, mrs corbey and mrs flesch, and to all the members of the committee on industry, commerce, research and energy, and its chairman, mr westendorp y cabeza.
the proposal for a regulation was the result of a petition to commissioner wallström, responsible for the environment, by the shark trust and a question i had put in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
but we cannot admonish the commission for wasting taxpayers' money when we spend willy-nilly on things that are, frankly, a total waste of money.
i wonder how the people in the public gallery feel about the 5% – 8% of european taxpayers' money from the gbp 98 billion 2001 budget that the commission controlled going missing through fraud, mismanagement or waste; about the eur 15 billion surplus, money that could not be spent because of inefficient programming; about the specific problems that we found when we debated these points – specifically eurocost comes to mind; about the leaked e-mails and memos within the commission that show how bad the accounts actually were in 2001. about the promises we received of how things were going to get better for 2005 – but of course some members forget that we are actually dealing with the accounts for 2001 and exactly how they were reflected.
mr president, regrettably this directive was not referred to the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
unfortunately, and quite unacceptably, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy's amendment 7 proposes to change recital 6 to: 'this directive also covers research using human tissues and cells'.
it is also wrong because in fact the next piece of legislation to come from the commission will be one on gmo seeds, after the two reports that are to go through parliament, one of which is mr trakatellis's report which is currently before the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and of which commissioner byrne is well aware.
i would just add that my good friend mrs oomen-ruijten, who, jointly with mrs ayuso gonzález, tabled amendment 12, to which mrs ferreira referred, asked me to point out that she thinks there is a translation problem – at least in the english version – and that the category 'fine bakery products, energy-reduced or with no added sugar' – is supposed to be an addition to the previous text and not a replacement for it.
– madam president, first of all, i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, and in particular their respective rapporteurs, mr nobilia and mr purvis, for their open and constructive work on this proposal.
they are as follows: first, to introduce more stringent tests for the biodegradability of surfactants in detergents; second, to expand the scope to include all four types of surfactants instead of covering just two types as at present; and third, to introduce labelling requirements to benefit the consumer and the environment.
the first two measures will significantly enhance the protection of the aquatic environment with respect to toxicity, and the third will also benefit the health of consumers with respect to allergies.
we need to supplement the general horizontal legislation, not because detergents are especially hazardous, but because they are released into the aquatic environment in very large amounts.
legislation is justified even for a chemical preparation with a low hazard, if it can pose a risk to the environment through being released in sufficiently large quantities.
it also provides a tool for keeping the legislation up-to-date in response to technical progress and the increased understanding of, and concern for, the environment.
derogations will only be granted for surfactants that can demonstrate, by means of a complementary risk assessment, that they will pose no risk to the environment.
the complementary risk assessment has to provide sufficient information to enable the risk to the environment to be properly evaluated.
the commission believes that its proposal represents an equitable and appropriate balance between the economic, social and environmental pillars of sustainable development.
it will provide the high level of protection of the environment and of human health required by the treaty, and it will do so at a reasonable cost.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
– madam president, the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy welcomes this directive.
it is an advance for producers and consumers, as well as for the environment.
i am pleased therefore that the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has accepted the gist of our proposal for a tiered derogation procedure which such producers can invoke.
on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy i am pleased to recommend support for mr nobilia's report but would suggest that amendments 5, 15, 20, 33 and 40 unduly overlap with other relevant legislation and should be rejected.
members of the house have been criticised by the european environment bureau for being less than ambitious – in particular for not insisting upon a phasing-out of phosphates across the european union.
however, i am very conscious of the need to ensure that we secure cross-party support, if the powers of this house to improve environment legislation are to be brought to bear.
we can sometimes make gestures at first reading, securing major amendments for radical reform, but they matter not at all if we cannot get agreement at second reading, if we cannot secure that qualified majority; and to make progress we need to take account both of our ambitions for the environment and of legitimate concerns for industry.
in the united kingdom there are currently nine environmental directives which should already have been transposed since the commissioner came to office, not one of which has yet been put into practice.
that should be the number-one concern, not only of the european environment bureau, but also of those who care in this house and in the commission about ensuring that we move forward together to improve europe's environment.
throughout our water systems, our great rivers and even down to the sea we see the effects of these substances being pumped into the environment, on a daily basis.
that is why everyone is right to congratulate mr nobilia, our rapporteur, on the skilful way in which he has struck a balance between environmental concerns, consumer choice and information and the industry's interests, so as to come up with a proposal that we can unite behind here today.
research by the dutch institute of environmental sciences showed that use of phosphate-free detergents resulted in no improvement in surface water quality and led to eutrification worse, in many cases, than that experienced when phosphate-based detergents are used.
– mr president, first of all i would like to thank the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, and in particular its rapporteur, mrs schörling, for her very constructive handling of this proposal.
falling and volatile prices are indeed a major threat to the sustainable development of some of the poorest countries in the world.
direct intervention in commodity markets through price support or stock destruction does not offer a sustainable solution.
recommendation for second reading (a5-0099/2003) on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council amending for the 25th time council directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the member states relating to restrictions on the marketing and use of certain dangerous substances and preparations (substances classified as carcinogenic, mutagenic or toxic to reproduction - cmr) (15703/2/2002 - c5-0013/2003 and 153/702/2002 - rev.
– as rapporteur for the intelligent energy for europe programme, i would like to thank all three institutions for their cooperation in enabling us to reach successfully a second reading: the european commission, of course, for coming forward with the proposals, the council of ministers and the three presidencies involved in this - the spanish, danish and above all the greek presidencies - and especially the members of the european parliament and the staff of the european parliament.
we need only imagine the contents of a programme called 'stupid' energy.
'stupid' energy would use electricity and gas to heat the air outside buildings rather than insulating the buildings.
despite its high economic costs, its failure to deal with radioactive waste and the need for very high safety and security standards, 'stupid' energy would insist on the promulgation of nuclear power, even in countries at very high risk of nuclear weapons proliferation.
enough about 'stupid' energy.
the programme has four objectives, all of which are indeed intelligent: the promotion of renewable energy sources, of energy efficiency, of clean transport and of all these three things in developing countries.
there is an unfortunate omission as regards the need for a strategic agency in the field of energy.
its measures will help with protection of the environment, security of supply and with our industrial competitiveness.
nevertheless, the intelligent energy for europe programme will be of very real value and i look forward to its adoption following the commissioner's declaration, and to a vote tomorrow which i hope will be very well supported by a european parliament that will follow the programme with great interest.
firstly, intelligent europe is not and should not be the title for this programme but, as the rapporteur herself suggested, should of course be the umbrella title for everything we do in the energy policy environment.
as many colleagues know, we are facing a glut of legislation in the energy field today, this week and next week, ranging from combined heat and power through to trans-european networks and to the all-important electricity and gas liberalisation package.
we warmly support the rapporteur's success in raising the overall budget, but it is worth noting that the eur 200m, which is of course a great deal of money to you and me, is actually extremely little when compared to the enormous range of tasks which the intelligent energy programme is supposed to tackle.
mr president, it is claimed that the intelligent energy for europe programme is indispensable.
however, any mention of intelligent energy and request for renewable energy is likely to be met with derision rather than serious debate by the man in the street.
for the man and woman in the street in my neck of the woods, this energy policy manifests itself in the growing scourge of wind farms – which are progressively blighting our treasured countryside – whose economic value far outstrips the notional value of this supposedly cost-free source.
in fact, wind power is so costly that without substantial subsidy from taxpayers and energy users, its use would be prohibitively expensive.
since we are dealing with an intermittent energy source – as wind flow is far from constant – equivalent conventional generation must be supplied as back-up, which itself consumes as much energy as wind power is supposed to save.
bearing in mind that it is eu money and woolly thinking that sustains this programme – the two being largely inseparable – it is my view that the energy policy we are considering today is far from intelligent.
we are particularly pleased that the two approaches represented by the differing sides of the debate in our committee – on the one hand wishing to retain a methodology to distinguish cogeneration from other forms of generation, and on the other hand wishing to maintain an accent on energy saving – have been retained in the famous annexes two and three, and that some accommodation between those two perspectives has been reached.
i particularly wish to support the importance of aiming at energy savings over efficiency: we want to use less fuel.
i welcome the linkage of support with the environmental benefits that will flow from it.
they tell me they have supplied co-generation plant over the past 20 years, which has contributed to an estimated annual saving of 700 000 tonnes of carbon, which is a significant saving.
they are very keen on the test of eligibility for support to be based on primary energy savings and – a point which has not yet been mentioned – they want the directive to recognise and reward the benefits of utilising waste heat and fuels.
we must remember that we are looking for primary energy savings.
it allows us to be much more efficient in carrying out our eu objectives and policies on climate change, agriculture, security and development in the developing countries.
if there is a danger to the environment, then someone has to pay and when the polluters can be clearly identified, then they should be first in line.
we should extend the definition of environmental damage to safeguard special habitats and species.
we should give citizens the right to go to court directly to prevent environmental damage or to seek redress.
we have all expressed concern about the damage done to our environment by human activity.
after all, most human activities have some impact on the environment.
the more people there are, the more sophisticated they become, the worse that pollution potentially gets.
self-evidently, prevention is the first priority and in any event, pollution should be kept to a minimum.
what we must recognise, however, is that much of what creates a threat to our environment may not only be helping mankind in other ways but may actually be helping the environment itself.
it is not about punishing wrongdoers but apportioning and allocating responsibility for environmental damage.
they are interdependent and responsibility for the consequences of pollution should be shared and allocated between them.
further, since pollution is a practical problem, remedial actions must be practical too.
fantasy solutions are as detrimental as pollution itself.
but they represent a further responsible step on the journey of dealing with the consequences of pollution across europe and the wider world.
the definition of biodiversity is a very weak and very vague description.
it gives no comfort to the operators, no comfort to the environmental organisations and no comfort to the general public.
we must look at giving member states and the courts the power to intervene if they believe that there has been pollution by somebody with a permit defence.
i am pleased to say that other committees, such as the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, which has a lot of experience with comitology, and the committee on economic and monetary affairs, which has begun to deal with the lamfalussy procedures, fully support the approach that the committee on constitutional affairs has taken on this.
- (en) on the whole, the amendments adopted by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy on 23 april do not improve the commission's text.
taken together, these amendments are based on the assumption that any cogeneration 'with an efficiency of at least 80% provides considerable energy savings compared to separate generation of energy and heat and can therefore hardly be considered as efficient'.
the fact that an efficiency rate of 80% guarantees considerable energy savings is questionable.
projects with the same overall efficiency do not necessarily save the most fuel or displace the most co2 emissions.
whilst we have made preparations in our physical environment and our linguistic regime, in the hemicycles and so on, we have not adequately addressed many very important issues concerning information, communication and it strategies.
however, concerning other issues, such as canteens, the environment in brussels, accessibility of the buildings and the car service, we need to be a lot more ambitious.
the european union of 15 member states will receive only a 0.7% increase in our proposal, taking account in particular of the political priorities of stability and sustainable growth.
a large part of this is due to the cohesion funds, which provide specific funds for the co-financing of infrastructure measures in the field of transport and environmental infrastructure measures.
the budgetary estimates in category 3 are shaped by all the political priorities, enlargement, stability and sustainable growth.
many of the programmes, such as research, environmental protection, youth exchanges, to name a few, are multiannual programmes adopted through the decision-making process.
- the agenda calls for the commission communication on euromed cooperation in the field of energy.
- (es) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, today the college of commissioners has adopted an initiative which corresponds to a threefold energy challenge, namely the establishment of trans-euro-mediterranean energy networks.
the triple challenge concerns, firstly, the use of energy as a vector of stability, of strategic importance in our relations with the neighbouring countries, with our partners - we are talking about the circle of friends, the ring of friends, to which president prodi refers - including the countries of the southern mediterranean basin.
thirdly, we must identify a range of common energy network projects which will enable us to define our priorities in concrete terms and thus facilitate investment, both public and - above all - private, in the energy sector for the future by the various actors in the european union and the various governments of the european union.
the conclusions of the green paper on energy should not be forgotten, which clearly show that europe depends on its neighbours to guarantee its energy supply.
through this communication, the commission aims to respond to these three challenges and sets four specific objectives: firstly, to strengthen the security of supply of the european union, but also of our neighbours; secondly, to project the benefits of the internal energy market of the enlarged union to a europe beyond our borders; thirdly, to support the modernisation of energy systems in the countries around us; and, finally, to facilitate the implementation of energy infrastructure projects that meet the union's strategic interests.
i am talking about iran or the caspian region, which are undoubtedly of strategic importance from the energy point of view for the supply of the european union.
in this context, i would like to remind you of the importance of our proposals which are being developed in connection with euratom and which should lead to the council giving the commission a mandate to negotiate all aspects of energy exchanges on a basis of reciprocity and overall balance, something which is absolutely crucial when we are faced with enlargement to ten countries, seven of which have nuclear installations and virtually all of them - with one or two exceptions - are based on russian technology - once soviet - and therefore with fuel supplied from russia.
finally, as regards the energy infrastructure and network projects decided on jointly with these countries - and i want to stress this point - i would like to stress that their importance remains crucial, since they allow us to work towards clear objectives which we have decided on jointly with the countries concerned.
the communication i am presenting to you today will be officially presented next week at the euromed-energy ministers' meeting in athens.
i intend to use this important initiative to support the communication, the content of which i have briefly explained and which i hope you will be able to analyse and study in detail in the near future, given its importance for the security of supply of the european union, but also to support and promote a plan for stability and greater cooperation in our environment.
and through that greater collaboration, economic development and the concepts and models that we maintain, in which energy efficiency, environmental respect and other aspects of these characteristics are key.
the commission (es) mr president, i would like to point out that behind all these elements there is a strategy: extending action to a wider market than the european market alone, in the field of energy, an area in which we believe we can make progress, especially when we have association agreements with a large number of these countries, such as the twelve of the mediterranean basin, and of course guaranteeing the balances and the rules of fair competition between all.
it's not just energy, this is the first step.
we have, as you know, a structured dialogue with russia on energy.
having accepted the urgent need to reform the commission's accounting system along the lines suggested by its former chief accountant, marta andreasen – who was in post just four months and working in what was supposedly a hostile environment – and with your understanding, as commissioner for reform, that reforms often take longer than expected to deliver, conceive, plan and actually put into action, surely now you can accept that it is time to stop victimising marta andreasen and stop these ridiculous disciplinary proceedings against her.
as for the development cooperation priorities, draft article 1 provides a good basis, but at the same time we sympathise with the draft amendments proposed by parliament's committee on development and cooperation, notably where it suggests introducing references to good governance, environmental aspects and prevention of hiv/aids.
the proposals were originally produced to reduce the emissions from recreational craft.
recreational craft in the european union account for 0.5% of all emissions.
with this proposal we would see a substantial reduction in that fraction of emissions.
the large amount of cost and inconvenience that would be involved for users to produce even smaller fractional improvements in environmental performance would be very difficult to justify.
i hope that it will also bear in mind that the improvements in environmental performance that it wishes to bring about will be very fractional and may not justify the large amounts of cost and inconvenience for all concerned.
report (a5-0145/2003) by mr manders, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on environmental liability with a view to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage (com (2002) 17 - c5-0088/2002 - 2002/0021 (cod)) before the vote on amendments nos 85 and 99
mr president, on the voting slip which we have in front of us it says that amendment no 85 is identical to amendment no 99. i should like to point out that this is not actually the case.
- at present, public authorities - particularly at local level - have to bear a considerable burden because of major and minor environmental damage caused by a wide variety of sources.
i opposed amendment no 37 by the committee on the environment, which is contrary to this principle, would place too great a burden on local authorities and could be disastrous for local economic structures.
- i would like to express, on behalf of the labour delegation to the european parliament, our support for the general principle of the polluter pays, which is a major turning point in environmental policy in the eu.
any future outbreak must allow vaccinated animals to remain in the food chain to prevent such a terrible waste of resources.
mr president, i rise as the draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
let us not squander it and let us not waste it.
it needs to be said that more effective markets make for more efficient use of energy, and that is an essential element in maintaining security of supply.
first and foremost, it is about choice, better value and better service to consumers of energy, both domestic and commercial.
i would like to advise the commissioner that the kangaroo group working party on energy liberalisation is presently discussing the next steps we need to take in order to address the shortcomings not fully addressed in the current proposals.
mr president, i am pleased to announce that in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy this evening the last piece of the jigsaw, mr clegg's package, was voted through unanimously.
i have no fears that what is being suggested is wild and savage liberalisation because we have insisted on regulation unbundling, public service guarantees and labelling for environmental impact which leads to informed choice by customers.
types of energy choices can be affected, however.
environmental protection need not be at risk, nor need access by the public to energy.
we will have a better use of energy in europe because of it.
it is the regulation which takes the greatest account of the concept of public service, in its aspects of protection and support for the most vulnerable customers, of security as regards the specific service - in this case security of supply - and also of quality of service, by establishing minimum, basic obligations for all member states, to guarantee in practice security, not only in production but also in transport, which are essential when we talk about energy.
i am glad that parliament and the council have also committed themselves to this, which will enable us to give final approval to the transeuropean energy networks, completing the whole framework.
secondly, a review of the programme for the phasing-out of single-hull oil tankers, for which the maximum age allowed will be reduced and the phasing-out deadlines will be brought forward from what was originally proposed in the 'erika i' package of measures, in order to strengthen the protection of the marine environment, thus recovering the original proposals of the commission in the so-called 'erika i' package.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
– mr president, by and large the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy goes along with the commission proposal and the amendments of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0192/2003) by mr belder, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the implementation of macrofinancial assistance to third countries.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0114/2003) by mr piétrasanta, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the annual report of the meda 2000 programme (com (2001) 806 - c5-0524/2002 - 2002/2235 (ini)).
however, there is still a great underestimation of the importance of the sustainability strategy within this overall package as well.
equally nobody would deny that in today's climate there is a need for strong international cooperation, sharing ideas, thoughts, data and intelligence.
report (a5-0178/2003) by mrs jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 999/2001 as regards the extension of the period of application of the transitional measures (com (2003) 103 - c5-0068/2003 - 2003/0046 (cod)) (parliament adopted the text)
- i'll have the college of quaestors take note of your observation.
the greens/efa group is therefore one of the initiators of the report on the initiative of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy on regional integration, particularly with regard to its potential effects on multilateralism and efforts to achieve sustainable development.
one of our most important amendments would have made the establishment of free trade areas conditional on a prior in-depth assessment of the sustainability impact to ensure that these free trade areas do not exacerbate inequalities between partners and to establish binding rules to promote social justice and sustainability.
the debate, therefore, should and must reflect the need to assess the impact of these reforms on the eu's declared poverty eradication objectives and our sustainable development objectives for the world's poorest countries.
the aim of the commission's proposal is to reduce ship emissions of sulphur dioxide and particulate matter.
these limits will achieve significant emissions reductions, which are targeted at reducing acidification in northern europe and improving local air quality in ports and coastal areas.
importantly, given that shipping is a global industry, the main element of the proposal is aligned with internationally-agreed rules set out in the international maritime organisation's air pollution convention, that is, marpol, annex vi.
mr president, as mr lange has already said, we have made tremendous progress in reducing the emissions from road vehicles, by using better technology, using catalytic converters and lean-burn engines and by supplying better fuel – the ten parts per million diesel which euro 4 would lay down.
the prestige tanker was carrying high-sulphur heavy oil from estonia to singapore, but a lot of the rest is used in shipping, causing pollution at sea which we prevented on land.
i am confident these trials will show that the benefits of using this technology go over and above the directive in terms of delivering a 95% reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions, as against a 40% reduction which we can achieve through using the fuel.
it is a big improvement over marpol annex vi, with the additional benefit of reducing particulates by 80% and a substantial reduction in nitrogen oxide pollution.
the environmental concerns that mrs thors expressed need to be addressed, particularly the effects of putting this dilute sulphuric acid into the sea in certain port areas and also how we dispose of the sludge on store in an environmentally sensitive way.
i do not doubt that there may be environmental benefits.
the second issue concerns emissions offsetting, or trading.
the concept of emissions trading for conventional air pollutants is not currently well developed at eu level, even for land-based stationary emission sources.
another concern is that ship emissions of air pollutants have regional or local impacts that trading schemes might not be sensitive enough to address.
that said, we are actively considering emissions trading and other economic instruments as possible complements to regulation in future.
the technology appears to offer potential benefits, reducing sulphur dioxide emissions, nitrogen oxides and particles.
on the other hand it is very important to prove that the technology has no adverse impact on the marine environment, so that we do not simply replace one environmental problem with another, as you have also pointed out.
devising and implementing technical measures aimed at protecting and conserving young fish is of crucial long-term importance to the fishing industry, as well as to the aim of achieving sustainability in fisheries.
thus it is vital that the eu restricts the fishing effort in the irish box in order that future generations can enjoy a sustainable fisheries.
however, this report as it stands, instead of applying the policy of sustainable development, would open up this area of sensitivity to over-exploitation.
this is about ensuring a sustainable fishery for future generations.
(applause)
mr president, a commitment to sustainability leads us too to support fully amendment nos 20 to 30 to the stevenson report.
sustainability also requires the use of technical measures as dealt with in the hudghton report, but these are most effective when they have the full support of those engaged in fishing.
finally, as regards the fava report and the sustainability of the fisheries industry, decommissioning may be good for marine resources, but if fleets are reduced too far then the industry simply cannot survive.
please let us act with the sustainability of resources and of industry and with communities in mind.
the measures contained in this report are important, both to enhance maritime safety and to prevent the kind of ecological disaster that the galician coast has recently experienced.
in my constituency, scotland, our coastlines are bordered by some of the most dangerous waters in europe and have unfortunately suffered the environmental consequences of oil tankers dumping their cargo into the sea.
the improved climate has led to increased bilateral exchanges and a number of agreements.
we disagree on the kyoto protocol, but will still work together on carbon sequestration and soon on hydrogen research.
turning to the question of global challenges, for example, the environment, justice, migration, social and ethnic conflicts, clearly the report card on our co-operation is mixed.
we have made a great deal of progress on justice; we have less of a meeting of minds on environmental targets.
part of the reason is better diagnosis and also people understanding about genetics and family history, but our environment, lifestyle, habits and general quality of life may be related.
report (a5-0179/2003) by mrs jackson, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation amending regulation (ec) no 2037/2000 on substances that deplete the ozone layer, as regards critical uses and exports of halons, exports of products and equipment containing chlorofluorocarbons and the regulation of bromochloromethane (com (2002) 642 - c5-0554/2002 - 2002/0268 (cod)) (parliament adopted the text)
commission.
payments must be subject to mandatory compliance with the environmental, rural economy and animal welfare directives.
the position adopted by the european parliament will perpetuate a system that is harmful to the environment, the rural economy and animal welfare.
it will be left to campaigners like clean clothes and no sweat to make sure that labour and environmental standards are maintained.
the events of baia mare in romania and doñana in spain demonstrate the need to take action with regard to mining safety and mining waste safety.
until we see the mining waste directive we cannot relent on amendments that we have previously passed in this committee and in this parliament to ensure that action is taken with regard to those dangerous substances and activities, not necessarily utilising dangerous substances that clearly need regulation.
put them in the mining waste directive, commission, and we will relent on the amendments.
embracing the mediterranean within the controls and regulations of the common fisheries policy is a very ambitious plan and one which i hope will secure the core objectives of conservation and sustainability.
the reasons for these problems are of course manifold: overfishing has indeed played its part, but so have environmental pollution, global warming, north atlantic drift, and many other factors.
of course, we have an initial difficulty – and a very large one at that – because the majority of countries fishing in the mediterranean are not eu member states, so we must seek their active cooperation in achieving our conservation and sustainable exploitation objectives.
this is the only way in which we can involve all of the actors and stakeholders in the formulation of sensible management proposals for a sustainable mediterranean fishery.
- the agenda calls for the debate on the award of public contracts:recommendation for second reading (a5-0242/2003), on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the council's common position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the coordination of procedures for the award of public supply, service and work contracts (11029/3/2002 - c5-0141/2003 - 2000/0115 ((cod)) (rapporteur: mr zappà) andrecommendation for second reading (a5-0245/2003), on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the council's common position with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the coordination of procedures for the award of public supply, service and work contracts in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors (12634/35/2002 - c5-0142/2002 - 2000/0711 ((cod)) (rapporteur: mr zappà))
mr president, it is a very important matter that we discuss tonight, as mr bolkestein said.
to establish the general orientation of the group of the greens/european free alliance, we thought that the commission's original proposal was unduly timid and grudging on points such as the environmental and social points.
but there is a way of restoring it to consistency, coherence and environmental and social sensibility, which is to adopt the string of amendments, which will pull it back towards parliament's first reading position and again exhort the council and the commission to take a bold step that will continue to serve these valuable goals of modernisation, simplification and flexibility.
we are told that sometimes social or environmental criteria are vague.
i think my group has done the right thing, as have other groups, in attaching great importance to the fact that the conditions of environmental management and the safeguarding of the safety and health of workers are to be laid down in the invitations to tender.
this is in line with the principle of sustainability adopted by the council in gothenburg in 2001: equal treatment of economic, ecological and social aspects.
there has been a lot of discussion tonight about issues, particularly involving sustainability and ecological procurement.
however, there is nothing whatsoever in these proposals that in any way outlaws sustainable or environmentally friendly procurement.
provided that public authorities clearly specify the environmental criteria that the product or service must meet in an unambiguous and non-discriminatory way, then there is nothing to stop them from doing that.
it is not a fresh instrument of social or employment policy, nor is it a fresh instrument of environmental policy.
we may want to ensure that those criteria are applied in a non-discriminatory way, but companies that comply with all the european rules on environment and on employment criteria must be able to tender in a non-discriminatory way.
the commissioner and his services have consistently given far too negative an interpretation of ecj jurisprudence on this point and that is why we have such clear difficulties emerging in our debate here over applying environmental and social considerations.
it should be made clear to all those companies that intend to tender for these contracts that they have to introduce social and environmental conditions for their own workforces or they will not get the contracts.
on economic reform the hellenic presidency has made good progress, notably reforming the stability pact to target underlying deficits, concluding the energy liberalisation package and adopting the much-needed pensions directive.
in one of those areas we need to look at the relationship between that and the world trade organisation agreements and proposals we are currently following, and to see whether we will be able to safeguard social and environmental rights within the european union and encourage and support such development in poorer countries under the current regime.
i believe changes in european and american trade policies are likely to prove of greater benefit to developing nations, and i have fears that we could be making mistakes that will have unforeseen consequences for our environment.
i await with interest the result of the field trials currently being carried out in my own country, to see whether they provide any evidence on the effects of biodiversity.
madam president, i wish to begin by congratulating the rapporteurs, but in particular mrs scheele, whose report i followed, for her excellent work and the way she has brought about this compromise agreement on what is a very important report for all our constituents concerning human and animal health and the environment.
under the new regulations gm food and animal feed will have to go through a strict authorisation procedure – not just a notification process – and once on the market they can be monitored for effects on the environment.
i represent wales, a country where the national assembly tried to implement separation distances between gm and non-gm crops, only to be informed by the commission that this action was not legally sustainable.
about a quarter of agricultural land in wales is under agri-environmental schemes, or registered as organic, so this is of crucial importance to the economy as well as to the environment.
i, along with the majority of the british conservative meps and the majority of members of my group, see genetic modification as an interesting and potentially very useful development for mankind and for our environment.
it also holds out the possibility of reducing artificial agricultural inputs, notably pesticides and herbicides, whose use can cause collateral environmental damage.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has heard no convincing evidence that gm foods are a threat to human health or to biological diversity.
research by the commission, by the european environment agency and by the department for environment in my own country all conclude that licensing gm crops will almost inevitably lead to widespread contamination of non-gm crops.
however, the question is legitimate whether this uniformity in targets is most effective, both from an environmental and economic point of view.
to do that would mean spending eur 1.8 billion on recycling packaging waste alone, and packaging waste is only 6% of the waste going to landfill in britain.
this would mean that we would have to tell british local councils to initiate policies to remove packaging from the household waste stream.
member states will not be allowed to issue allowances that exceed their previously agreed targets, and they must not use the kyoto mechanisms to avoid taking action to reduce emissions domestically.
we look forward to the commission coming back with plans to bring other greenhouse gases into the scheme and to extend its scope to include other industries.
we await with keen anticipation the commission's proposals to reduce emissions from the transport sector.
but with emissions of greenhouse gases continuing to increase in most developed countries, we hope that this scheme can make a very significant difference.
i hope that it will enable the european union to retain its credibility as the world's leading force in pressing for action to curb global warming.
where regulation is needed is where the gains from remedying market failure for citizens or the environment outweigh the costs of government intervention.
the millions of unemployed throughout europe want sustainable jobs, rather than our apparent obsession with institutional design and architecture.
households will gradually separate glass, paper and plastic from other waste and businesses will have to work with local councils to finance new equipment and set up new facilities to process material flows.
to achieve this, glass bubbles, garbage trucks to collect waste at the doorsteps of households and new waste treatment, transfer and storage stations are needed.
personally, i wish to see it implemented as soon as possible to eliminate delays, reduce emissions and enhance safety.
i would like to make one point, so that no one is mistaken: the emissions from the lorries which are subject to the limitation of the ecopoints have been reduced by 60%.
it is quite another thing for the emissions measurements, which concern not only those lorries but also those coming from third countries outside the european union or those of private cars or austrian cars or lorries themselves travelling within austria, to give a different result.
in any event, the emissions of the trucks subject to the limitation of the ecopoints have been limited by 60%.
the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0220/2003), on behalf of the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of community financial assistance to improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system (marco polo programme) (5327/1/2003 - c5-0225/2003 - 2002/0038cod)) (rapporteur: mr bradbourn).
the immediate aims of the marco polo programme are improving the environmental performance of the freight transport system and also reducing road congestion in albeit a relatively small way.
he agreed originally with the commission that congestion threatens both the environment and the operational working of the whole freight transport sector.
for example, it is asked to support the denomination of energy supplies and products in euro.
moreover, the heads of state or government, at their summit meeting in december last year, took the historic decision to invite ten countries to join the european union as of 1 may 2004. at the same time, the environment in which monetary policy was conducted in 2002 was one of considerable uncertainty.
monetary growth was strong in 2002. while this development was partly the result of high volatility in financial markets, which heightened investors' preference for short-term liquid and less risky financial assets, it also reflected the relatively low interest rates in the euro area in 2002. overall, however, the excess liquidity was not seen to indicate risks to price stability in an environment of subdued economic activity and moderate credit growth.
although the outlook for price stability is favourable, having allowed interest rates to fall to historically low levels, monetary policy cannot by itself generate lasting and sustainable growth and employment in the euro area.
for a number of reasons, which i have pointed out on previous occasions before parliament, we believe that the tools chosen by the ecb to communicate and explain its decisions ensure transparency, are more readily available and better reflect the institutional environment in which the ecb operates.
mr santos wondered whether there was a danger that the appreciation of the euro might lead us into a deflationary environment.
- uk labour meps are strong supporters of the single european sky and want it to be implemented as soon as possible to end air traffic control delays, reduce emissions from standby aircraft and increase safety.
mrs wallström is due to meet the committee on the environment very shortly and will explain herself on this subject.
this is not the time to discuss the various aspects of the common agricultural policy, but whatever its imperfections or shortcomings and beyond the new guidelines of this cap which i myself said would take better account of environmental requirements - at any rate that is what mr fischler is proposing - it must be said frankly that if the common agricultural policy had not existed, then many regions where there are still farmers would be finished.
mrs roth-behrendt and mr moreira da silva, like many of you, have raised the great global issue of kyoto, the greenhouse effect, global warming.
if there are more and more violent storms, if the heat wave gets worse, if global warming produces this heat wave, and if there are, as a result, fires, floods, and - we will probably see in the coming weeks - new disasters related to rains, thunderstorms, erosion, this is not a coincidence.
beyond the efforts we must make to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, there are of course all the other policies which, in my view - i say this to mr turmes because i agree with him - must be conducted with this cross-cutting requirement.
i would also like to remind you that in the context of the cohesion fund, for which i am responsible, half of the appropriations are allocated to the environment and the other half to transport.
it is also a subject which we do not have time to go into in detail now, but i think that a form of prevention in the field of the environment is to make the issues well understood and to educate, to limit as much as possible not only deliberate or criminal acts but also acts of recklessness.
finally, mr lipietz suggested a green paper on the protection of older people against climate accidents.
i would like to point out to mrs schroedter, who spoke earlier calling for a sustainable strategy, that all this is at the heart of my thoughts and those of my colleagues in defining our proposals in the third report on cohesion.
we must not waste too much time in reaching decisions on the basis of the commission's proposals.
it is also embarrassed, as mr schmitt himself is or as mr simpson has indicated, by amendments of an environmental nature (amendments 9, 10 and 17) which would set out specific environmental objectives for these negotiations.
we do not think this is the right place to set political objectives for these negotiations or to develop environmental policy.
community policies on the environment are very well established.
we are very much attached to this balance, which is politically essential to us, since it corresponds to our own economic system, that is to say, a system open to trade, but governed by rules reflecting social, health and environmental concerns.
we believe that there are imbalances in this text, whether it concerns agriculture, industrial tariffs, the environment or geographical indications.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the use of the term 'competition' in the context of the directive on the protection of the environment.
i would therefore conclude by saying that with this debate and these initiatives, the commission, like parliament, is making a decisive contribution to a profound transformation of the legal and political environment of the union.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
as he said, we now live in a world that is totally interdependent, and the problems of one country are problems for all of us, problems such as poverty, hunger, disease, ecological disasters and crime.
we have to be pragmatic and not allow ourselves to surrender to the temptation of prescribing those nice things that we take for granted here in our environment.
there should be further analysis of the economic and ecological disaster that has not only occurred but continues to occur for the people of galicia and other areas.
commissioner, you are to be commended for the many initiatives on energy that you have introduced over the last four years, not least for the green paper on security of supply, for which i was parliament's rapporteur.
however, the different measures you have brought forward – on liberalising gas and electricity markets, on promoting renewables, on increasing energy efficiency and on developing trans-european energy networks – make clear to me that there is no need to create a additional chapter or legal base on energy, because you have all these instruments available to you already.
i hope you will take this in the spirit in which it is intended and reflect on different ways of achieving the objective that we share: maintaining security of supply for energy in europe.
however, i believe that this debate on energy security has never been so important.
we need only look at the recent power cuts on the east coast of america to see how an energy crisis impacts on ordinary people - no power, no lights in family homes, no refrigeration, millions of dollars lost by small businesses.
this incident was merely the result of a technical or human error that was rectified very quickly, but it has been a much needed wake-up call to those of us who too often take our energy supply for granted.
recently the institution of civil engineers said that the uk could face power cuts in 20 years' time because of its dependency on foreign energy sources.
it has also estimated that in the uk alone – even given centres of excellence around the north sea such as the european energy capital of aberdeen – 80% of the gas needed to fuel british power stations will come from distant and politically unstable countries.
although member states certainly have responsibilities for securing their own energy supplies, the need for cooperation early in a crisis situation will be vital.
much has been achieved in the energy agenda in the eu, and liberalisation, at any rate in the uk, has allowed for consumers to have choice and hence cheaper gas and electricity, but, as mr linkohr has suggested, if gas prices increase in the near future, consumers will be very unhappy.
new threats from terrorism and sabotage – as we have seen in iraq – and our increasing dependence on energy from outside the eu pose huge challenges.
as mr mitchell, from the uk's royal institute of international affairs has stated, the key to energy security lies in diversity of supply.
no, if i do not have the support of this house, i shall be pushing for other kinds of initiatives and i simply hope that i shall not have the opportunity to say 'i told you so' because it will mean, among other things, that we do not have any really major crisis in the energy sector.
we are talking about something quite different, which the international energy agency itself has modified in its latest decisions and has adjusted its previous criteria, according to which oil stocks could only be used when there was already a breakdown in the market, namely around 6/7%.
and this development, which is what the commission's initiative is about, ladies and gentlemen, has been recently taken up by the international energy agency.
i will explain it to you very simply: let us imagine that there is an oil crisis, the international energy agency says "use the mechanisms".
states within the international energy agency can choose one or the other system.
because in the energy and oil sectors, we are not talking about national decisions alone, sorry, they are decisions of the european union, because the market covers the whole of the european union and, therefore, the question is not whether the commission decides what must be done or not.
ladies and gentlemen, we are talking about improving the security of supply, the functioning of the internal energy market and thus strengthening the european union not only in terms of consumer guarantees but also in terms of its economic capacity.
i should also like to thank the rapporteurs of the committee on culture, youth, education, the media and sport and the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, who have also made a major contribution to parliament's work on this issue.
mr president, earlier this year i visited galicia to see the environmental catastrophe that was the wreck of the prestige.
the appropriations for grants to certain agencies have also been reduced, while taking account of the particular situation of newly established or start-up agencies; the commission has decided not to accept two new areas of preparatory action concerning chemicals and the security of conventional energy supply.
these include measures such as those in the field of immigration policy, the new programme to promote smart energy and measures to improve safety in the transport sector.
in my view, the commission's proposal is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the commission is not prepared to take action in the field of the environment, because it is not the commission's responsibility to take action in the field of the environment.
it is up to all of us to do everything we can to ensure that enlargement is a success, that the union offers the stability that the old and new member states are seeking, and that sustainable growth ensures good living conditions for all citizens of the union.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
unfortunately, north korea is not offering to exit its nuclear energy program and instead invest in renewable energy.
mr president, a number of amendments to the budget were adopted by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
a main objective was to restore or increase the budgets of the agencies on which we rely to carry out statutory and other tasks set by parliament, namely those of the european medicines evaluation agency, the european environment agency and the fledgling european food safety authority.
we applaud moves from direct aid to aid linked to environmental objectives, but we know very well that many environmental directives are not being complied with.
are we only paying lip-service to a link between the cap and a cleaner, better environment?
because i got the impression in cancun that the sustainability section and the development section of some of these ngos have completely opposite views, and i think that this is something that should be discussed.
in particular, in the context of the future objective 2 policy, we can, in partnership with the regions and governments, directly implement the major objectives of gothenburg and lisbon in terms of competitiveness and sustainable growth.
the tens programme is a wonderful one, which allows transport, energy and telematics projects throughout europe to be decided upon by the nation states themselves in order to connect the 15 countries now in the union with the 10 countries coming in, embracing the whole of the european union and making sure that each nation can build its part within the trans-european network.
as regards support for renewable energy, as the honourable member is well aware, we are putting this together with support for energy efficiency through the intelligent energy programme.
as regards transport networks, for the energy sector, i have already presented specific projects for euro-mediterranean energy networks, which should first of all make it possible to rationalize the investments made in a number of countries and to coordinate and make investments more efficient, not only by making certain investments merely national in nature, but also by giving them a broader continental perspective.
when i speak of these euro-mediterranean energy networks, i am talking about europe in the continental sense, not the european union.
i trust that member states in particular will take note that the problem of adequate and sustainable pensions is a problem today, will be an even bigger problem tomorrow, and requires action now.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
if we are to rebuild confidence in the multilateral system, we have to expend much more political capital in making its rules and procedures genuinely fair and sustainable.
two years ago we approved the national emissions ceilings directive and the ozone in ambient air directive, for which i was rapporteur.
the former, in particular, set ambitious and legally binding targets for reductions in pollution and improvements in air quality.
before us now is a measure requiring the paint industry to make changes in its production methods which will help ensure that these targets are met, at least with regard to the reduction in volatile organic compounds – one of the precursors of ozone pollution.
it is, as far as i am concerned – and i agree with the commissioner – very definitely a measure that should address primarily the issue of air pollution rather than that of health problems associated with those who use paints.
i have worked with the commission's air quality experts on the ozone matter and i can assure the house that i did not find them unambitious – quite the opposite.
when we started to look at this proposal we had to bear in mind that it came out of the original discussions on the control of voc emissions from some years ago when we first looked at the problem: the emission of vocs from large industrial plants, from large garages, from large petrol stations and so forth.
the commission has also recognised that this proposal to reduce voc emissions is going to have an important effect on the environment.
it is going to reduce ground-level ozone.
it is going to make sure that we reduce the incidence of asthma caused by ground-level ozone.
it is going to reduce other environmental effects.
i appeal to you to have some respect, not just for the present environment that we live in, not just for public health, but for the old environment, the built environment, the one we are trying to preserve.
mrs gonzález has undoubtedly been a doughty fighter for the citizens of spain and particularly for the environment of her beloved country.
recommendation for second reading (a5-0284/2003) on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reuse of public sector documents (7946/1/2003 - c5-0251/2003 - 2002/0123 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr van velzen)
rapporteur.
report (a5-0292/2003) by mr lisi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of emissions of volatile organic compounds due to the use of organic solvents in decorative paints and varnishes and in automotive retouching products, and amending directive 1999/13/ec (com (2002) 750 - c5-0632/2002 - 2002/0301 (cod))
- this matter has been submitted to our legal department and the president for a decision.
you mentioned the ecosystem.
as a former minister of the environment in my country, i am sensitive to this issue.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field, including the establishment of a european network of national experts in the field of environmental protection.
my own feeling is that there is simply no way that we will achieve the general principles referred to in the common objectives in the agreement - namely legal certainty, the promotion of simplicity, clarity and consistency in the drafting of laws - if we do not make rapid progress – as called for in paragraph 25 – in establishing a common methodology to have environmental, social and economic impact assessments, not only attached to draft proposals from the commission, but also in significant amendments tabled by ourselves and by the council of ministers.
the commission has always considered that sustainable fisheries must be ensured not only in community waters but also outside our waters.
the aim is to give these agreements a greater focus on the environment than they have had up to now, without neglecting economic and social interests.
in future, third country agreements must be a partnership between the eu and the contracting nation, embracing a continuous monitoring process to ensure that a sustainable fishery is maintained.
the eldr accepts, therefore, that there is merit in negotiating fisheries partnership agreements with third countries, rather than leaving matters to bilateral arrangements which may lack consistency both between each other and in supporting the requirements of sustainable development.
on paragraph 11, whilst it may be right to forecast an increase in the number of agreements reached, we cannot be certain of this and would prefer by oral amendment to replace the words 'the increase' with 'any increase'.third, the agreement should promote sustainability.
we are pleased with the extent to which the report makes reference to the principles involved and hope to see these built on where the details of any future agreement are concerned, notably by introducing specific provisions for protecting the environment.
indeed, wherever we come from in the eu we have a very strong interest in ensuring the sustainability of fisheries not only in our own waters but beyond.
according to unep, the united nations environment programme, which focused on mauritania, argentina and senegal, all countries have noticed a depletion in their stocks after signing third-party fishing agreements.
the need for environmental impact to be taken into consideration with third-party fishing agreements is paramount.
i like the fact that the rapporteur has underlined the importance of sustainable fisheries and is highlighting this fact, which should apply to all vessels within the waters affected.
the main objectives of this proposal - improving road safety and reducing environmental pollution - are commendable, but there is insufficient evidence that this is the best way to achieve them.
it is important too that there be flexibility where temporary and atypical pollution takes place.
this does not mean that beaches in britain are hotbeds of pollution.
the amendment encourages authorities to take preventive action where possible to protect bathers from exposure to pollution.
actually, both parliament and council also confirmed their support in negotiating the sixth environmental action programme in 2002. i also thank members for not bringing into question the health standards which the commission has proposed.
in some cases, waters can be of excellent quality for bathing without having a good ecological status.
it is also important for the evaluation of eu bathing sites that no bathing water remains in conformity if the pollution is neither properly identified or mastered.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0290/2003) by mr sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on a mechanism for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions in the community and the implementation of the kyoto protocol (com (2003) 51 - c5-0031/2003 - 2003/0029 (cod)).
– mr president, when the european community signed the kyoto protocol, we knew that this commitment would require solid action in future, and the recently adopted european union emissions trading scheme is a centrepiece of that action.
we naturally base our information very much on the work of the european environment agency.
in this way, the european union and the european community will reaffirm their commitment to the kyoto protocol and underline the commitment to put in place the necessary measures in the fight against problems of climate change.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0296/2003) by mr lange, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 97/68/ec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to measures against the emission of gaseous and particulate pollutants from internal combustion engines to non-road mobile machinery (com (2002) 765 - c5-0636/2002 - 2002/0304 (cod)).
this proposal is part of the community's on-going efforts to reduce emissions to improve air quality in order to protect the environment and the health of our citizens.
the objective of this proposal is to tighten emission standards for engines in non-road applications in the light of technological developments and the sector's contribution to emissions to air.
emissions from conventional on-road transport continue to be reduced; it is therefore right that, in parallel, further progress is made in the non-road sector, as technically and economically feasible solutions become available.
i opposed many of the amendments that mr lange first proposed to the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, but i am happy to say that since then he has put in an enormous amount of work to negotiate compromises with the council, the vast majority of which i am happy to endorse.
i always believe that the approach we should take on environmental emissions directives must be proportionate.
we must ensure that the environmental benefits are always balanced against the cost.
so often in the eu we impose enormous costs on business and industry for sometimes relatively marginal improvements in environmental performance.
this is a very important step forward in controlling emissions in a sector not really yet touched.
a whole range of non-road mobile machinery – construction equipment, barges and all sorts of niche equipment we have not yet though about – is going to be brought sensibly under control, putting an end to a lot of smelly diesel fume emissions in all sorts of strange places that prompt complaints.
i think, quite frankly, that the ambitions of parliament, as expressed by the committee on the environment, have exceeded the wishes of the commission and the council, particularly with regard to diesel engine trains.
it also provides for a marked improvement in the environmental performance of engines in non-road applications.
importantly, it also includes a provision for a review in 2007 whereby the commission will assess whether there is any need for adjustment to the stage iiib and stage iv emissions standards and the timetable for their application or exemption.
report (a5-0290/2003) by mr sacconi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council decision on a mechanism for monitoring greenhouse gases in the community and the implementation of the kyoto protocol (com (2003) 51 - c5-0031/2003 -2003/0029 (cod))
in writing.
madam president, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy proposed a number of amendments to the budget.
we cannot demand that, for example, the european environment agency provide environmental indicators to enable us to link common agricultural policy reforms to the achievement of environmental goals if their budget is not adequate.
will the commission be able to support the amendment that i plan to table in the environment committee which would allow the uk to prohibit the export of horses and ponies from the uk for slaughter or further fattening?
mr president, i would like to join my colleagues in thanking mr rothley very much, not just for this report but for the sustained campaign that he has run over many years, as the commissioner indicated, to improve the whole insurance climate for europe's motorists.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has refused this, but your rapporteur pointed out that the commission proposal should be re-considered when the framework legislation on food additives is considered for amendment.
mr president, we all support recycling although it must be planned sensibly so that it does not cause more environmental damage than it saves.
we also all support the waste hierarchy where it is best to prevent, it is next best to re-use and recycle, and after that comes energy recovery.
there is virtually no gain for the environment in this scheme.
as we have heard, the current challenge for the european union is to identify key factors for building a climate in which entrepreneurial business activities can succeed.
he will have my full support, but what we need most of all, if europe is to provide the environment which will foster entrepreneurship, is a complete change in attitudes to success and to failure.
i have however, along with my colleague mr liese, in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, tabled supplementary amendments aimed at clarifying the text.
regional advisory councils are vital to the future of a sustainable eu fishing policy.
i hope we will be able to improve dialogue and cooperation between all those concerned in order to secure a sustainable future for our industry.
we must, however, look beyond the regulation to other means of helping cod recovery and of moving to sustainable fisheries overall.
who has a vested interest in restoring stocks to sustainable levels?
the public will no longer tolerate this needless waste which has become emblematic of the failed cfp.
(applause) i would like to thank
the rapporteur, mr van den broek, has already said that the commission is not prepared to accept the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
in the commission's proposal i do not find this objective clearly formulated, nor do i find other objectives, such as education, health care, the environment and democratisation.
it is therefore crucial that the european union contributes to eradicating poverty, promoting sustainable development and ensuring respect for human rights, minority rights and the rights of indigenous peoples, and that it promotes democracy, good governance and the fight against inequalities.
the other issue in this report is environmental.
it is actually about co2 emissions from passenger cars and the way in which taxation can be used to deal with this and to improve our environment.
as far as the environmental aspect of this report is concerned, this is something which concerns me very much as a representative of london, one of the major cities in the eu, obviously contending with car pollution all the time and always looking for ways of dealing with it.
members may or may not know that there is a tax in the uk on petrol to take account of co2 emissions – a green tax – which works very well.
if we did this throughout the eu it would go a long way towards reducing co2 emissions and would be a very positive benefit to our environment.
i believe we are doing a good thing here: it is not about tax harmonisation, it is about the internal market and our environment.
in short, this is a confused and confusing report and its aim, in my view, along with the commission communication, is to use fiscal initiatives to impose harmonisation on the grounds of environmental objectives, despite this not being an area of competence for the eu.
it is important that we are having our debate today in the context of the future of the automotive industry because the issues surrounding the decision that ford was forced to make at genk go to the heart of our thinking on how we need to secure a long-term sustainable future for automotive manufacture in europe, the technology and the jobs that go with it, and i and many colleagues here have a huge interest in that.
if your colleagues in dg environment continue to press the industry to make smaller, lighter cars without any commercial regard for what is going on, then we will be back here again.
if we have joined-up policy-making, however, we will have a long-term, sustainable future for automotive manufacture in europe.
mr president, i wish to bring to the house's attention the situation concerning a local councillor in lancaster in the uk, who made public a decision made in secret by the cabinet of the city council to suspend the local taxation owed to it by the local nuclear power station owned by british energy.
- the agenda calls for the commission's declaration on the european year of persons with disabilities - 2003.
mr president, i am pleased that the commission has produced the action plan on lifelong learning, new technologies, access to the built environment and so on, but we need to go much further.
the use of human embryos to create embryonic stem cell lines and embryonic stem cell research are contentious, but we have discussed the issues and have reached a useful consensus in the report by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
this has yet again been adopted by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
those views were reinforced by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy last week: we are in favour of the development of therapies for dreadful diseases by the use of embryonic stem cells under very strict conditions, with no creation of embryos for research, with the use of supernumerary embryos, with the consent of parents and without payment.
the action plans proposed in the action plan address many elements, including the creation of a more favourable climate for private investment and research, and this particularly concerns the areas of competition, intellectual property, the regulatory environment, financial markets and taxation.
the commission fully supports the report of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy as submitted to the plenary session today.
ida is currently working in the following areas: agriculture, humanitarian aid, the internal market, statistics, environment, trade, employment and education.
the commissioner indicated his seriousness as regards addressing those member states which did not meet the due deadlines: the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy made it clear that it would back him if he wanted to take the action he has outlined.
i know that all parliamentary reports are collective efforts, but this one very much represented a collective effort by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy as a whole, including the shadow spokespeople.
at the end of the day, what we want for the benefit of european consumers, let alone european telecoms operators, is sustainable, robust, facilities-based competition.
– mr president, on behalf of my colleagues in the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, i would like to thank mr clegg for the work he has done and his cooperation in enabling us to bring our own ideas into the report, and also for pushing the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy to take the initiative.
he and others on the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy have been very vociferous in saying that it is simply not enough to pass directives and to put in place legislation if member states then feel free to transpose that legislation according to some personal timetable which does not make europe more competitive or promote social cohesion.
– mr president, the commission very much welcomes the work of the rapporteur, mr mussa, and the members of the two committees involved, who have managed to reach unanimity in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on a comprehensive and high quality report.
the issue of funding for collaborative research projects using embryonic stem cells and stem cell lines was the subject of extensive debate in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
russia and the union share a common security environment and a high degree of mutual interdependence, so we are right to seek to make our joint borders more secure and our shared hemisphere more safe.
the arctic environment and its people concern us all.
we have just opened the window properly and i can promise you that the commission will also work with all its energy to ensure that the opportunities offered by this initiative are fully exploited.
the importance of trying to build a sustainable peace also requires serious action on conflict prevention and post-conflict strategy.
we share a strong commitment to third world development assistance and environmental protection.
given the importance of our large store of common north atlantic values, this summit should assert that canada and the eu will henceforth cooperate proactively in foreign and security policy and on environmental questions.
we believe that these two requirements are safeguards that will help to ensure sustainability and encourage beneficiaries to be active in seeking other sources of complementary income.
as regards economic issues, and in particular the resumption of sustainable economic growth, the european council will be the culmination of the long work carried out since the thessaloniki european council and further developed by the heads of state or government at the summit last october.
let us now turn to the themes linked to the lisbon agenda, in particular those aspects of structural reforms, on which the next spring european council will have to devote its energy.
as regards economic issues, and in particular the relaunch of sustainable growth in the economy, the european council will be the culmination of the long work undertaken since the thessaloniki european council and elaborated by the heads of state or government at the last summit in october.
we are therefore clearly faced with two options: either a divided europe that is merely a spectator on the world political stage, or a united europe that contributes to peace, growth and sustainable development.
above all, we need to link fiscal policies more closely to the broader objective of increasing growth potential without compromising the long-term sustainability of public finances.
the important thing is that once again it seeks to strike the essential balance that was established at lisbon: the balanced policy mix combining economic, social and employment policies in an overall framework of sustainable development.
the point is, as the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy pointed out in its opinion on this matter, much of the implementation of important aspects of european policy environmental policy, regional policy and other policies, including transport is carried out in member states at a level of government below that of the centralised state government.
the committee on constitutional affairs, the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, and the environment committee also welcome it and wish to carry it forward.
it was based on the idea of a sustainable city for example birmingham, stockholm and other cities in the union.
it was about trying to figure out ways to make sustainability make sense.
the sustainable city is currently being trialled as a pilot project.
what about the sustainable town?
the report adopted by the constitutional affairs committee needs to be amended, not in such a way as to break the spirit of what was agreed in that committee, but in a way that completes that spirit by building in some of the points agreed on by the environment committee, all of the points agreed on by the legal affairs committee, and some of the things which have emerged from the pilot projects under way.
by drawing up contracts directly with the regions, the commission can enter into legally-binding agreements with local and regional bodies on regional and other policy issues such as the environment.
in every respect, this was seen as a good package that delivered the development and conservation values, provided a sustainable fishery, continued to provide jobs for eu fishermen, and continued to supply the eu with high-quality fish.
it is important that through the senegal agreement, and the subsequent agreements we have achieved since then, we are trying to continue with this pattern in order to continue to provide these kinds of sustainable fisheries agreements.
we want the commission to make sure that the agreement takes full account of the sustainable management of fisheries resources, particularly with regard to tuna stocks.
the emphasis should be on decentralised production using low-cost, sustainable farming methods.
regarding the community strategy on air pollution from seagoing ships, as i have said before, i very much welcome the publication by the commission of this communication on a european union strategy to reduce atmospheric emissions.
as it states, the commission has indeed set out a broad series of objectives, actions and recommendations for reducing the emissions of air pollutants from seagoing ships over the next ten years in order to reduce their impact on the environment and on human health problems in the eu.
the commission very usefully sets out the scale of the impact of ship emissions.
for example, ship emissions contribute to critical loads of acidity being exceeded by more than 50% in most of the coastal areas along the english channel and the north sea, in the baltic sea along the coast of germany and poland, and also in large parts of southern sweden and finland.
in terms of the main atmospheric emissions that should be addressed by the commission communication, it already mentions sulphur dioxide, nitrogen oxides, volatile organic compounds, particulates, carbon dioxide and halon - all of these are quite rightly included.
however, in my report, i seek to add two further categories of emissions that should be covered by the strategy: heavy metals and polycyclic aromatics, which are essentially hydrocarbons associated with cancer.
the commission is right to state that eu regulations on emissions standards are the best way to reduce emissions from ships in eu ports, territorial waters and exclusive economic zones.
but, indeed, it is also right to note that economic instruments can also be one of the best means of promoting good environmental performance providing that what they are doing there is giving incentives to go further than the regulations and actually move towards coming up with the best available technology.
another point about the objective of the communication is that it needs to be more explicitly aimed at reducing ship emissions of greenhouse gases in particular, looking especially at the impact on global warming.
in relation to that, my report also asks the commission to study how emissions from international maritime traffic could be included in directive 2001/81/ec on national emissions ceilings when that is reviewed.
furthermore, my report reminds the commission of the sixth environmental action programme, which requests that the commission identify and undertake specific actions to reduce greenhouse gas emissions from marine shipping if no such action is agreed within the international maritime organisation by 2003. since we can see that indeed no such action has been agreed within the imo, i hope very much that the commission will go ahead and initiate such actions without further delay.
on sulphur emissions, it is appropriate to mention the commission's proposal on the revision of directive 99/32/ec relating to the sulphur content of marine fuels.
the commission proposed only to reduce sulphur emissions from seagoing ships in european sea areas by about 10% compared to the emission levels in 2000. but, in order to achieve the objectives of the sixth environmental action programme, emissions need to be reduced by at least 80%.
my report therefore calls on the commission to amend its proposal on the revision of directive 99/32/ec in accordance with the european parliament's first reading back in june, the aim of which was to reduce sulphur emissions by 80%.
the commission should also publish, before the end of 2004, proposals for eu-wide economic instruments aimed at reducing atmospheric emissions from ships.
reducing ship emissions of air pollutants and greenhouse gases is a priority for the commission, since we know that if measures are not taken, by 2020, ships in european union seas will emit more air pollutants than all land-based sources combined.
on the issue of taking international ship emissions and eu national emission ceilings into account, we aim to launch a study soon to get a better perspective on how significant ship emissions are in individual member states compared to land-based emissions.
the proposal as drafted would deliver a significant 40% reduction in sulphur dioxide emissions targeted in asset-sensitive northern europe.
the environmental and human health benefits of the tighter sulphur limit would still outweigh the costs but the overall cost to the shipping industry would double to over eur 2 billion.
lastly, in direct response to a question raised by mrs lucas on the issue of ship greenhouse gas emissions, i am pleased to inform her that the international maritime organisation is due to adopt a strategy on this issue later this week.
if present trends continue, over half the pollution produced in the eu will be out at sea.
we must bear in mind that if we reduce the sulphur levels of fuel for ships, we increase the emissions at the oil refinery where these sulphur levels are reduced.
it is vitally important, when we look at emissions, to see where they take place.
emissions out in the middle of the atlantic ocean do not cause us problems on land.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
– mr president, perhaps i can reassure mrs van den burg that the concerns of the committee on employment and social affairs were rather carried over into the debate on the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, and indeed a number of the amendments that were adopted by us in our opinion at first reading were, in my view as draftsman, more appropriate to your committee.
a third area of concern which was addressed in the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy was that of the scandinavian countries in particular over multiple classes of shares.
it cannot fall on the local authorities; it has to fall on a member state and we cannot allow member states to just walk away from it and allow pollution to continue to grow.
mr president, we in the british conservative group have a strong commitment to protecting our environment and this is an important directive which is capable of doing good both for the environment and for business.
on the one hand, unfettered commercial activity, as we all know, can destroy the environment.
nor can we be certain that pollution will respect the boundaries of the eu, however large the eu becomes.
it is important, therefore, certainly with nuclear matters and pollution at sea, that we use those models to carry on with our international obligations and work with our other partners around the world.
he said that perhaps we in europe need to move away from this introspective constitutional debate, as it has taken up too much time and energy; and that what we need to focus on are the issues that matter to our european citizens, such as jobs and growth, the environment, human rights and quality of life.
- ladies and gentlemen, i do not want to protest if i speak now, when we are not afraid to waste five minutes to take a picture - where gender mainstreaming is not respected, but there was at least one luxembourg, the bailiff.
one is to protect employees and their permanent living environment, while the other is to facilitate business for companies in order to generate the greatest possible profit for shareholders.
third, the environmental aspects.
the possible effects of the use of medicinal products on the environment is important.
the compromise amendments, which require an environmental impact assessment and possible mitigating measures but leave the criteria for granting the marketing authorisation untouched, are to be seen as a well-balanced solution.
i would also like to reiterate the importance of the new environmental features introduced in the legislation.
as regards the veterinary legislation, we also note that if the provisions have been brought into line globally with those of the human medicinal products directive, some specificity has been adequately kept, in particular concerning environmental impact.
in the veterinary sector, environmental impact may determine the final authorisation of the given product and therefore constitutes a criterion for its evaluation.
when i was chairing the debates on mrs grossetête's and mrs müller's reports in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, i was presented with a petition, which i have with me here tonight.
this will not get big headlines in newspapers for the rapporteur or anyone else, but it is extremely important for the public to have clarity and security in the measuring instruments used as listed for items of public health, public safety, public order, protection of the environment and, indeed, the levying of taxes and duties and the protection of consumers and fair trading.
some of us sometimes question whether we are misguided in doing that in comparison with other committees such as the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
the expenses regime is going to be cleaned up and, while there is not an entirely clean break with the past, the anomalies are such that i do not assess them to be very great and they will of course waste away over time.
would the council agree that the european union must give sustainable long-term support to the continental peace efforts that have been made and give assistance to the architecture which has been put in place to build security on the continent by the african union?
– mr president, i should like to report to the house that, following the debate last night and discussions with the presidency, in the spirit of compromise reflecting our work on this portfolio, i am mandated by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy to withdraw amendments nos 3 and 11. on that basis, i understand that the commission is in full support of all the amendments and the presidency has indicated its support.
mr president, the british labour meps fully support the polluter pays principle and, with this in mind, believe that the cost of motoring in general should better reflect the real costs to society and, in particular, the environment.
congestion charging plays a key role in combating congestion, pollution and global warming.
there is also the matter of barriers and, obviously, a city requires a barrier-free environment.
the london congestion charge has reduced significantly the amount of traffic going into the centre, with the obvious benefits for the environment, etc.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0457/2003), on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the promotion of cogeneration based on useful heat demand in the internal energy market and amending directive 92/42/eec (10345/2/2003 - c5-0444/2003 - 2002/0185 (cod)) (rapporteur: norbert glante).
i would like to point out that, as alejo vidal-quadras has rightly said, this definition has combined and covered under the concept of cogeneration the two types of cogeneration which are also often divided in the european geography: the one that pursues energy efficiency in an industrial process and the one that pursues it in the field of heat production associated mainly with the task of heating, in communities.
in the end, this overall definition has been given, there is a positive energy balance, which means that, through cogeneration, these results are obtained with less energy consumption than would be required for the production of these two activities separately.
that's what we're after: greater global energy efficiency.
i believe that when a good consensus is reached, it is combined, it is overcome, it is not watered down or weakened, but, as in this case, it is forged, built up and reinforced in support of the series of measures which, taken together, have shaped a european energy policy over the years.
there is still, as a possible outstanding matter, the nuclear safety package, on which i hope this parliament will soon take a decision; then there will be the package presented the other day by the council, the new energy package, which will be the third package after the gas and electricity packages, to ensure greater security of supply in a liberalised market and to accommodate the reality of enlargement.
we have gone from making declarations on energy efficiency, cogeneration and the use of renewable energies - often magnificent and full of goodwill, but merely declarations - to taking measures with concrete objectives to promote energy efficiency, cogeneration or the use of renewable energies in different fields and in different applications.
we have also worked in other areas, such as security of supply and the efficient functioning of the market, issues which raise problems in that vital element which is energy, not to mention issues such as nuclear safety to which i referred a moment ago.
the protocol also supports scientific research, which is essential for ensuring the sustainability of the fisheries and for building up capacity to administer this in the country.
the targeted measures remain the same and represent 71% of the financial contribution out of an overall contribution that is also kept at the previous level – eur 957 500. considering the good level of utilisation of the tuna fisheries on the one hand, and the ministry's use of targeted measures to ensure sustainable fisheries, the commission considers the extension to be good value for money.
concerning amendment no 3, the agreement, according to article 13 thereof, shall be renewable for additional periods of 3 years, unless notice of termination is given in writing by either of the parties.
as commissioner nielson pointed out, there are 71 licences available for tuna vessels, although as always in these partnership agreements, over 70% of the financial compensation goes to targeted actions ensuring the continuation of a sustainable fishery and underpinning conservation measures, scientific research and control and surveillance.
in the absence of this agreement, we could not guarantee that a sustainable fishery would continue.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment from harmful substances.