in the midst of and intensifying the crisis in the economic, energy, transport, road, air and maritime and environmental sectors, large private capital, seeing the potential of railways to save energy and costs and thus to make profits, is turning its attention to rail transport and is trying to penetrate it on equal terms, in fact quite unequally, with the state railway companies.
the commission has also been asked to draw up a report on the implementation of the new community rules on the protection of the environment.
for the lisbon strategy, i will focus on sustainable development.
the need for a strategy to promote sustainable development in the context of european integration is more urgent today under the pressure of enlargement, deepening and globalisation.
the commission's sustainable development strategy implementation plan is already bridging the gap between declarations and legislative instruments on environmental protection and public health and promoting the implementation and integration of environmental considerations into all policies.
it must therefore assume its responsibilities on a global scale, and that means that it must act as a leader in the effort to achieve sustainable global development through technology and science.
– the commission is committed to improving the environment for small businesses.
much of the commission's work aims to help member states to improve the business environment for their small businesses.
this year we have agreed orally on the number of the issues which will go to this kind of broad impact assessment when we assess the economic, social and environmental impact.
the signing of the euro-mediterranean association agreement with lebanon is certainly an important step in the implementation of our strategy, which aims to create a free trade area in the mediterranean, but also a zone of peace, security and sustainable development for all citizens.
the next step in this process for the head of the monitoring, control and inspection committee, mr hans blix, and for the director of the international atomic energy agency, dr elbaradei, is to report to the security council on 27 january on the results of their assessment of iraq's declaration on its weapons of mass destruction.
i am not against aquaculture but against the unhealthy way in which it is developed without respecting basic health and environmental conditions, and unfortunately as aquaculture comes into the hands of big business, this unhealthiness grows.
it sets out the conditions required for the development of aquaculture, such as the selection of sites, compliance with the principles of sustainable exploitation, advertising of the product, the existence of a level playing field, the introduction of certain health measures, protection against the introduction of genetically modified fish, respect for the environment, etc.
the substance of the problem and the issues that will inevitably arise in the future with the overcrowding of some enterprises with all the serious health problems and adverse to disastrous environmental impacts are not affected.
the capitalist orientation and development of these enterprises and the dominance of the profit-maximizing hunter are already leading aquaculture, which is concentrated in the hands of large private capital, to methods of farming, livestock and fish feeding that are very negative for public health and the environment.
the report leaves small producers, consumers and the environment exposed by failing to address these major problems.
mr president, the international political climate is extremely unfavourable.
thirdly, as regards the environmental dimension of rural development, the ecological balance, the hygiene of foodstuffs, etc., the european union must seek a common clause for all countries based on its own standards.
i personally believe that the principles which should guide us in the immediate future in the development of european transport are the completion of the single market, the promotion of competition and particularly the promotion of the liberalisation of transport where this has not yet been done, the concern for safety in all forms of transport and also the priority to protect the environment.
it is particularly important, especially for certain areas of the european union, and it certainly helps to protect the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in the european union, where everything is bought and everything is sold, where a market has been created for radio spectrum, even a market for air pollutants and for pollution rights, we also have a market for public documents.
the aim: to redistribute markets and control energy sources in the context of the united states' frantic quest for world domination.
in particular, the steps towards the objective of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion, which we set in 2000, are not considered satisfactory.
the commission will also be supporting the development of a european environmental policy, which will include the establishment of a european environment agency, the establishment of a european environment agency and the establishment of a european environment agency.
the need to implement sustainable development in the context of european integration is becoming more urgent under the pressure of both the enlargement process, the revision of the union's treaties and, of course, globalisation.
without scientific and technological progress and innovation, we will not be able to meet the challenges, the nutritional, medical, environmental, socio-economic challenges.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
what will you do about the new environmental liability legislation, which is, in a way, a restriction which is also part of the strategy of sustainable development, etc.
the declarations on transport safety and environmental protection are being overridden by the philosophy of increased competition.
the spring european council will have to establish new priorities adapted to the current climate of economic recession and international tensions, including a relaxation of the criteria of the stability pact, tax incentives to stimulate labour-intensive activities, special incentives to help regions lagging behind in new technologies, joint interventions to improve education systems and monitoring the implementation of the eeurope action plan objectives in each member state.
the problem with uranium 238 is that while it has very weak a-radiation, meaning that i can hold it in my hand and not get any damage, if i inhale it, because there are phagocytes in the body that take these particles, they irradiate these cells very close to their genetic material, and that's where any dangerous energy of this depleted uranium is attributed.
that is exactly what parliament's resolution says, that because there are very likely to be public health risks and dangerous effects from exposure to depleted uranium, it would be good for the commission (that is point 7) to monitor exactly these investigations and everything related to depleted uranium and the possible widespread environmental pollution and the long-term risk to human health.
taking into account the results of the recent investigations in iraq and in the balkans, of the effect on man and on the environment following the use of du', the use of du ammunition in iraq and the balkans 'neither has led to a serious widespread contamination of the environment nor represents an acute or appreciable long-term hazard for man's health'.
forests are of immeasurable value: environmental, economic, national and health capital for the whole world, for the whole of europe, for each country individually.
the statement of the panhellenic medical society against the nuclear threat is correct: "we are facing a nuclear mini-war, which has already caused irreparable damage to the environment in the balkan region".
in addition, the commission hopes that the freedom of expression of the media, used in a responsible way, could help overcome the current climate of verbal confrontation in venezuela.
this is for a renewable period of one year.
in this connection, it is clearly stated that such actions must comply with the social, environmental and safety standards required in each port and that this requirement is essential in order to be able to carry out such self-help.
the above shows that the budget is still moving in an anti-people direction and that the sacrifices imposed on workers to serve only monopoly interests continue in the lisbon logic with intensified exploitation, circumvention of workers' labour and insurance rights, inflation of unemployment, destruction of the environment and further commercialization of health, education and social welfare.
we want port services that are transparent and provide a level playing field for all, that protect workers' rights, the environment and port safety.
we are witnessing, in a climate of opacity, an intensification of discussions on the conditions for the penetration of foreign capital in the fields of transport, telecommunications, energy, banking, water distribution, health, education and culture, according to the principle "everything is bought and everything is sold", with the least developed countries in mind, as the multinationals are ready to bleed even more.
under the misleading title adopted in lisbon 'for sustainable development and full employment', and despite the increase in inequalities, member states are called upon to implement structural reforms leading to the distribution of unemployment, the generalization of flexible forms of work, uncertainty, insecurity for employees and the reduction of the cost of wages in order to ensure that large companies have a steady increase in their earnings.
it fully supports the implementation of the stability pact, the acceleration of structural changes in the labour market, wage cuts, the extension of the retirement age, the full liberalisation of services of public interest, particularly in the fields of postal services, telecommunications, energy, transport and broadcasting, and calls for a reduction in the tax burden on entrepreneurs.
the issue of organized crime, as mrs ludford emphasized, cooperation with the icty, the rule of law, corruption, regional cooperation, the necessary networks, transport, energy, information technology, all these are key elements for the stabilization and development of the region, as well as the completion of the common path of the region with the european union.
i support the amendment by our group on the need to ensure a climate of peace within the administrative departments of the institutions.
sars, however, demonstrates very clearly that we are living in a truly global environment, where the increasing mobility of people also enables diseases to move ever more freely.
the centre will be important in the operation of a network of laboratory research into epidemics and related research; - it is useful to set up an expert group - task force - to deal with natural epidemics rather than purely intentional ones, as has already been done with bioterrorism; the commission has also proposed that the community should be able to provide financial support for the development of the community's energy policy.
however, an evaluation and updating is needed, taking into account changes in the international environment, new data in the field, the effectiveness of pilot programmes and the speed of production and trafficking of new addictive substances.
it's an environmental issue, only environmental issue.
(applause)
mr president, i rise as a member of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
the commission has also been asked to provide information on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
we stress that proposals such as those in the report setting maximum thresholds for contamination of seeds open the way to gradual and comprehensive legislation on gmos, which would have unforeseeable consequences for agriculture, the balance of the ecosystem and consumer health.
any deviation from the principle that seeds containing gmos should not be placed on the market will, in addition, cause genetic erosion of non-genetically modified species and varieties and have unforeseeable impacts on biodiversity.
firstly, let me thank the rapporteur, mr manders, for his report concerning the commission's proposal on environmental liability.
environmental liability is an important subject that has received well-deserved attention and caused intensive discussion for many years.
the proposal aims to establish a community framework whereby environmental damage – which is defined in the proposal as biodiversity damage, water damage and land damage – would be prevented or remedied through a system of environmental liability.
whenever possible the operator who has caused the environmental damage – or provoked an imminent threat of such damage occurring – must, in accordance with the polluter pays principle, bear the costs associated with the implementation of the necessary preventive or restorative measures.
firstly, the scope of the proposal in terms of the activities and biodiversity to be covered: in the commission's view, strict liability should apply to the activities listed in annex i to the proposal, and also to occupational activities other than those listed in annex i, it being understood that this second tier of liability is fault-based.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy has adopted a number of amendments to the proposal.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and that the environment is protected in a way that is not harmful to the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
in particular, biodiversity as defined in the plan is limited to the habitats and species covered by the habitats and birds directives, i.e.
secondly, the definition of environmental damage must be broadened to include radiation, damage to air quality and damage to biodiversity from genetically modified organisms.
thirdly, the areas of marine and nuclear pollution are not covered.
however, these usually cover traditional damage and not the concept of environmental damage.
and yet they contain clauses expressly prohibiting the introduction of provisions for extended environmental liability.
in addition, exemptions from environmental liability are provided for emissions or activities which have been authorised or which were not considered harmful at the time of authorisation.
the new directive cannot therefore lead many member states to relax the strictness of their environmental legislation.
the committee on the environment, which i have the honour of chairing, has adopted an opinion in the spirit of these observations.
we are trying to get closer to the council's positions so that we can see the greek presidency reaching a political agreement at the environment council on 13 june.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the ecosystem and the flow of matter and energy have predictable, describable paths.
i hope that the results of our vote will send a clear political message throughout europe: that we are determined to develop a genuine policy to ensure better protection of the environment, compatible with the social and economic objectives of the union.
if we vote for the amendments which we have the honour to table, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i think we can open a new path which will eventually establish a model of sustainability and responsibility in europe and beyond.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very ambitious one, and it aims to minimise environmental damage both by means of preventive measures and by allocating the cost of repairing the damage.
the amendments we support are the necessary compromises not only to avoid the adoption of the directive but also to make the whole protection system sustainable and to avoid market distortions.
it is a question of the need to develop the european union's policy on the environment, and it is a question of the need to develop the european union's policy on the environment.
the compulsory provision of financial guarantees to make good environmental damage is a conditio sine qua non for the effective protection of the environment.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental impact of the use of the land is not affected by the pollution caused by the use of the land.
the pursuit of activities for which a licence exists and which are not considered harmful at the time of their pursuit should not exclude the operator's liability, but the existence of a licence or the failure to detect in time the harmful effects of the activity in question could act as mitigating circumstances when the costs of restoring the ecological damage are charged to the operator, provided that the latter has fully complied with the conditions imposed by the applicable legislation or its licence in the course of its activity.
the above also shows that, in order to protect the environment effectively and to prevent ecological disasters, the activities falling within the scope of the directive should be reviewed periodically taking into account the latest scientific findings and the experience gained in the meantime.
the environment has a prominent place in the treaties, and so must public health.
like environmental problems, communicable diseases know no borders.
the commission's legislative and work programme for 2003 provides for a new communication to further implement parts of the 2001 communication, specifically with regard to the issue of the sustainability of european tourism.
the second interesting point is that some have created a climate in which we should thank mr rumsfeld for overthrowing saddam, his old friend, because that seems to mean a genuine reconsideration.
finally, we hope that on 21 june the european union will exert its influence so that decisions are taken to implement the road map, so that a just solution can finally be found in the middle east and a climate of trust can be restored with the arab world.
- (el) this directive on an environmental liability system is based on the basic principle of the polluter-pays principle.
this principle has proved effective in requiring those responsible to make good environmental damage, but it has also proved detrimental in weakening effective prevention and has proved to be the most cynical alibi for increasing the tax burden on 'polluted citizens' - polluters (large companies) no longer paying for the disasters they cause (erika, prestige, sevezo etc.)
environmental damage is reduced to blatant hypocrisy, in that the 'financial guarantees' on the operator are shifted to the state and the workers either by increasing the operating costs or by passing them on to the price of the products.
given the exemptions and its limited scope, this directive is reduced to a 'vine leaf' hiding the interests of monopolies, insofar as it does not include the overall protection of biodiversity, pollution by hydrocarbons, nuclear damage, non-ionizing radiation, gmos, etc.
and it exempts from all responsibility, in a provocative way, those who cause enormous environmental disasters by carrying out barbaric and unprovoked military interventions.
the limited definitions of damage, liability and other basic concepts, with their exceptions and curious "presumptions of non-liability", lead us to adopt a particularly cautious and critical attitude towards this "environmental liability".
council mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the prospect of completing the enlargement process with the 10 new member states has led, since last year, to a new reflection on the european union's relations with its new geographical and political environment, its new neighbours.
in this context, it is appropriate to examine the possibilities for closer cooperation on important international issues such as terrorism, organised crime, petersberg missions, environmental protection, development aid and migration.
there is also great potential for enhanced cooperation to address risks such as the threat of environmental and nuclear disasters.
the objective of creating an area of shared prosperity through sustainable and balanced economic and social development is linked to five specific elements.
firstly, the establishment of a free trade area and the protection of the environment are not incompatible but complementary.
the framework of the euro-mediterranean strategy for environmental integration, adopted at the euro-mediterranean ministerial conference on the environment in athens, should guide our development actions.
the third element is the development of cross-border cooperation and the integration of our neighbouring countries into trans-european networks, particularly in transport, telecommunications and energy networks.
the fourth element is close cooperation in the energy sector.
many of our neighbours are important suppliers and our policy will focus on the union's energy security, always respecting the principle of diversification.
the new environment is both useful and necessary.
- (el) space science and technology have brought enormous benefits to humankind, whether in the form of new knowledge and advanced technology or in everyday applications (telecommunications, earth and atmospheric observation, navigation).
the proposed restructuring benefits only the powerful monopoly groups and has a negative impact on the cost to the working family, on national energy planning and on the position of workers in the sector.
the communist party of greece considers that energy is not just a consumer product but a strategic sector for development and therefore cannot be the object of business and speculation but must belong to the public.
at the same time, the increase in exports will limit the development of generating plants in the weaker member states that would use domestic energy sources.
in addition, control of national transmission networks is being shifted from the member states to the commission, with the result that national energy planning capacities, which could reduce energy dependence and ensure that each member state's needs are met, are being reduced.
cross-border energy exchanges can be used to reduce energy dependence, to ensure cheap energy and to exploit domestic sources.
mr president, the commission's recent proposals for the reform of the cap are not just a mid-term corrective revision, but they are a coup de grace for small and mediumsized farmers, they reduce the quality and competitiveness of agricultural products and they damage the environment.
the decoupling of subsidies from production and the payment of direct income aid, the diversification by gradually reducing and decoupling aid exceeding eur 5 000 per holding and the complete dependence of aid on strict compliance with environmental standards, the so-called multiple compliance, are turning the already disastrous cap into a mechanism for the eradication of farmers, radically changing the production map of the countryside.
the objective of the cap revision is to save resources from agriculture for other policies, emu, cfp and others, and to orient agriculture towards the market in conditions of extreme competition, without any social, developmental or environmental criteria, as the mechanisms of the world health organization and the pressures of the united states require.
the constantly repeated appeal to protect the environment is used as an alibi for reducing agricultural production.
the commission has also been asked to provide a report on the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment in the context of the implementation of the new rules on the protection of the environment.
the notorious multi-functionality of agriculture, with the reallocation of resources to the second pillar for the supposed development of the countryside, is only a very poor cover for the objective of marginalizing the rural world and altering its social and environmental role.
we stand with the farmers and support them in their dynamic struggles, the only solution to ensure their survival, to protect the quality of the products, the consumer and the environment.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
i would like to make a few comments on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment in the event of a disaster.
- (el) i voted in favour because, following the sinking of the prestige off the spanish coast and the enormous ecological disaster, immediate protection against single-hull oil tankers is needed by imposing an immediate timetable for their withdrawal from circulation.
we understand, of course, that the purpose of the withdrawal of single-hull oil tankers is to protect the environment by preventing further dramatic accidents at sea.
- (el) the safety of ships, crews and the environment is an issue which cannot be addressed by piecemeal measures, however important, such as the mandatory double hull precondition for oil tankers calling at ports in the member states.
a typical example of how these interests are served at the expense of the environment is in the long transition periods, without any real justification in terms of security of supply, and in the exemption from double hull requirements for vessels over 500 to 600 tonnes.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
we must now use our remaining energy reserves to resolve the investment services, transparency and, of course, take-overs directives by the april 2004 deadline.
mr president, at the first reading of the directives now before us, the european parliament had fought hard for the integration of social and environmental criteria in public procurement procedures, reaffirming its role as a champion of the european social model and sustainable development.
respect for the european acquis in labour and environmental matters cannot be ignored in the public procurement process.
it is also important to stress that social and environmental criteria are not merely mentioned in the recital, but must be included in the regulatory text of the directive.
the mid-term review of the cap was adopted, reducing and decoupling subsidies from production, with devastating consequences for small and medium-sized farmers, quality and the environment.
the prospects for sustainable development in europe seem to be a distant hope.
when, as in the debate with the united states, i note that well over half of trade with russia and other countries is now in the euro, this is a driving force, which will not fail to affect sectors which are now outside its sphere, such as energy or other sectors, because it is the force of things that brings us to this level.
madam president, the two regulations we are discussing today are added to a series of union legislation on genetically modified organisms which concerns not only their restricted use but also their deliberate release into the environment, novel foods and novel food ingredients, the mandatory labelling of soybeans and genetically modified maize.
i am of the opinion that europe is lagging behind in these new technologies and biotechnology, as described in the council conclusions and the road map, and the importance of this development, with these two reports today and the vote tomorrow, will be important for europe, because we are significantly behind in this promising 21st century technology compared to our competitors, with negative consequences at all levels: economic, social and even environmental.
the use of gmos will also lead to genetic erosion of non-genetically modified varieties, with unpredictable effects on biodiversity.
what the wto is not willing to discuss, however, is access to cheap medicines and the protection of biodiversity.
the right to health, education, healthy food, water, telecommunications and energy must be subject to the law of commercial interests and the increase of profits.
i would also remind you that the question of criminal sanctioning of serious breaches of community law has been raised in the past in connection with legislative proposals concerning the protection of the environment, the protection of the community's financial interests, the safeguarding of intellectual property rights, pollution from ships and pollution offences in general.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council and parliament on the subject of the environment.
the commission has also been active in the development of the european union's policy on the environment, and has been involved in the preparation of the european council's conclusions on the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
this is a major aim of current community legislation on air quality and emissions.
the commission has also received findings from a research programme indicating an increase of mortality in cities where high pm10 concentrations are accompanied by high no2 levels and a warm climate.
in this context, i would like to ask the commission whether it is also going to investigate the burden of pollution from this photochemical pollution and particulate matter, as well as from the olympic projects that are carried out without taking the appropriate measures to protect the health of citizens.
- (el) the commission proposal promotes the legalisation of the dangerous and unacceptable deterioration of seafarer training, satisfying the decisions of the large shipowners to increase their profits at the expense of the safety on which the very lives of seafarers depend, but also of maritime navigation and the environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one.
the continued israeli occupation of territories, the repeated murderous operations of the israeli army, its terrorist presence in palestine and arbitrary arrests, coupled with the brutal conditions of detention, the denial of the existence of a palestinian state and the constant violation of the right of self-determination of a people have created an explosive situation in the middle east and a generalized climate of instability and insecurity, maintained and fuelled by us and eu imperialism, provoking the justified palestinian resistance and intensifying suicide attacks.
the declaration of an independent palestinian state with jerusalem as its capital is a necessary precondition for any real attempt to achieve peace and to restore a climate of security for palestinians and israelis.
for example, there is a problem with waste disposal in ports.
madam president, the seriousness of the energy supply problem is shown by the recent imperialist invasion of iraq and the quarrel before and afterwards over the division of the spoils.
if this is accepted, it will further undermine the possibility of energy planning in line with the needs of each member state and lead to a structuring of the energy sector in accordance with the choices of the powerful forces of the european union.
the communist party of greece believes that each country must take measures to reduce energy dependence, to exploit domestic sources, to develop and exploit new forms of energy, with the aim of ensuring cheap popular consumption and environmental protection.
it is more than obvious, however, that a radically different socioeconomic context is a necessary prerequisite for such energy planning.
- (el) i voted in favour of the motion for a resolution which takes a series of important measures for the safety of the seas, such as:- the creation of refuges for vessels in distress,- the creation of european coastguards for strict surveillance, compliance with the rules and the prosecution of those responsible,- regular investigations of high-risk vessels,- the creation of a special anti-pollution fleet,- the creation of special areas for ecologically sensitive areas.
- (el) the report and amendments of the legal affairs committee on the patentability of computer-implemented inventions create a stifling environment for the creative capacities of scientists and small software companies, and will ultimately work only in favour of the industrial giants, who have thousands of invention patents and huge legal departments to stifle small businesses, including the free environment conducive to innovation.
the adoption of this directive will mark the de jure acceptance of the requirements of the widespread 'patent industry' in the united states, will discourage research and development and will lead to a huge waste of resources in legal protection proceedings, instead of investing them in technological innovation.
the council first of all reaffirms its commitment to the development strategy established by the gothenburg european council in 2001. in this respect, our aim is to ensure the sustainability of transport, to address increasing traffic volumes and levels of congestion, noise and pollution, and to promote the use of environmentally friendly modes of transport, as well as the full internationalisation of social and environmental costs.
the promotion of the development of modes of transport which are less harmful to the environment.
the existing guidelines for the development of trans-european transport networks already identify as one of the objectives of the network the ensuring of sustainable mobility of people and goods, while contributing to the achievement of community objectives, in particular in the field of the environment and competition.
in this respect, the integration of environmental concerns into project design and development has been set as a priority objective of the development of the network.
in general, council directive 85/337/eec of 27 june 1985 requires member states to take account of the protection of the environment by carrying out environmental impact assessments when developing and implementing projects.
in addition, an environmental assessment of plans and programmes drawn up in preparation for such projects, in particular those financed by the community, is carried out in accordance with directive 2001/42/ec of 27 june 2001 on the assessment of the effects of certain plans and programmes on the environment.
under article 154 of the treaty establishing the european community, the community contributes to the establishment and development of trans-european networks in the fields of transport, telecommunications and energy infrastructure.
if no measures are taken between now and 2010 to rationalise the use and maximise the benefits of each mode of transport, heavy goods traffic on rubber alone in the eu-15 could increase by 50% compared with 1998. this is a problem not only for the member states but also for the countries applying for accession to the community, as the market share of railways has been gradually declining and road transport has increased by almost 20% between 1990 and 1998. in the new context of sustainable development, the gothenburg european council of june 2001 called for the future emphasis to be placed on the development of rail, maritime and inland waterway transport.
it should also be recalled that the council conclusions on the second review of the council strategy on the integration of environmental needs and sustainable development into transport policy, adopted by transport ministers in december 2002, stressed the importance of analysing new policy proposals from the point of view of the environmental impact and the community's ability to reduce the harmful impacts on the environment of the transport sector.
in support of this approach, i would remind you that at the same meeting last december the council approved the marco polo programme, which is intended to finance the improvement of the environmental performance of the freight transport system.
the objective of promoting sustainable development through efforts to rebalance modes of transport in favour of environmentally friendly modes of transport will therefore be a key criterion for the council when, in the coming months, it examines the commission proposal for the revision of the ten guidelines and the priority projects contained therein.
in this context, the council considers that the conclusions of the high level group, chaired by former commissioner van miert, are in line with the strategic guidelines for sustainable and balanced development, which is concerned with protecting the environment and at the same time desires to promote the unity of europe through the free movement of people and goods, the reduction of natural barriers, the balance of the east-west and north-south axes, and considers that infrastructure investment, suitably accompanied by public-private partnership initiatives, can be a formidable tool for supporting economic growth.
and this is all the more impressive when you consider that some of these projects are about what we are talking about now, which is respecting the environment and tackling traffic congestion in some of the most sensitive areas of our continent.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done in this area.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment from harmful substances.
recent experience in the field of road safety and co2 emissions from cars has shown us that the risks of not achieving the objectives that can be achieved by normal legislation in terms of efficiency and systematic application are very real when these voluntary agreements are used.
part of this strategy is to simplify and improve the regulatory environment.
the rapporteur, mr medina ortega, has been following these issues for a long time and that is why his report is a reflection of his rich experience of the commons, the dysfunctions and the weaknesses of the regulatory environment.
its proposals cover all stages of the regulatory environment, from the preparatory work of legislation, the drafting procedures, the way in which its content is formulated, to the stage of implementation of legislation in the member states.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one.
these crimes, apart from terrorism, murder, kidnapping, hostage taking, trafficking in human beings, transport of explosives and toxic waste, also include theft, serious sexual crimes, and trafficking in drugs and psychotropic substances.
we cannot exclude the possibility that new generations of insecticides applied mainly by the seed immersion method may be harmful to the environment and public health, especially when these preparations are used in different countries and after germination to control certain pests.
therefore, controls of post-germination spraying should also be carried out in order to improve our knowledge of the effects of these preparations and to take appropriate measures to protect the environment and public health.
mr president, the change of definition from 'forest ecosystems' to 'forest' is a scientific step backwards, since the term 'forest ecosystem' is more complete scientifically.
moreover, a forest ecosystem cannot be characterised as such by its area of only half a hectare, since a set of criteria and conditions is necessary for the characterisation of an area as a forest ecosystem.
tens of millions of hectares of forest ecosystem in my country, which are currently protected by greek legislation and are a key protective factor, according to recent government announcements of a draft law that substantially adapts greek legislation to the proposed directive, are at risk of being exploited, with incalculable consequences for the forest ecosystem, soil support, water retention, flood prevention and the enrichment of the groundwater horizon.
it is a value that is environmental, and climate, and sanitary, and economic, and social, and cultural, but also - even historical.
i can, of course, see the link to climate change, where i guess the gods are crying over what we are doing to this planet and to our climate.
a loss of one year over the monitoring of forest fires and the air pollution effects on forests would of course mean an information gap which can only be filled after several years of additional efforts.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0335/2003) by mr maaten, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the quality of bathing water.
the austerity imposed on the workers and the popular strata to serve the interests of the monopolies continues in the lisbon logic, with an intensification of exploitation, circumvention of the workers' labour and insurance rights, an increase in unemployment, destruction of the environment and further commercialization of health, education and social welfare.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the agenda calls for the following reports to be discussed jointly:- a5-0347/2003, by mr langen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on entrepreneurship in europe - green paper; - a5-0328/2003 by mrs zrihen, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on industrial policy in an enlarged europe.
to achieve this, governments need to simplify bureaucratic procedures now, create business-friendly tax systems, and ensure that a supportive business climate is created in which new entrepreneurs can thrive and grow.
it sets as a priority the ambition to share responsibility with the united states for 'peace, stability, democracy, tolerance and sustainable development in the world'.
both the commission's text and the report of the european parliament's committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy are anthems to this new ideal.
the appeal to protect the environment, which is repeated like candy, is used as an alibi to reduce agricultural production.
we had a serious ecological disaster.
the commission has also been asked to present a report on the implementation of the directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
i hope that the proper application of this regulation, together with other policies to support the development and democratisation of the countries of origin of illegal immigration, will significantly improve the deep-seated social and political problem affecting our societies and give rise to a climate of racism and xenophobia, which offends the humanistic and democratic values of european political and social culture.
then the process of restoring the environment and extracting the oil that could be extracted began.
but there is no way that the seamen, and especially those who went on holiday to help clean up the environment, can now be held hostage as part of a negotiation between the pakistani authorities and the insurance company.
we are dealing with a miserable transaction between capitalists, at the expense of the safety of human life at sea, of the marine environment, in order to increase their super profits.
i would also like to thank the rapporteurs, mr oreja arburúa and mr folias, of the committee on civil liberties and internal affairs, justice and home affairs and the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy respectively, for their views which have also served to improve the text proposed by the commission.
this requirement is however considered acceptable, given the particular importance that the council and the parliament attach to piloting services for safety and environmental protection and the fact that the competent authorities may limit piloting activity to a single provider for reasons of public safety.
ladies and gentlemen, we are talking every day about wanting environmentally friendly and sustainable transport, about wanting to import short sea shipping, short sea shipping, so we cannot vote the next day against a measure which is going to facilitate the development of this type of transport.
the proposal we are voting on, especially as it has come out of the discussions in parliament, the amendments by parliament, the negotiations with the council, is a very balanced proposal, very moderate, but one which can clearly serve to boost maritime cabotage, an essential issue in ensuring a sustainable transport system in europe.
one of these concerns special programmes in selected workplaces where, given the environment, there is a serious risk of cancer.
in other words, it should give priority to structural and economic reforms leading to functioning market economies and sustainable development.
our view is that both of these requirements are safeguards which will go some way to ensuring sustainability and encouraging beneficiaries to be active in seeking alternative and complementary revenue streams.
this is one of the aspects which we have seen disappear immediately, whereas so much energy and intelligence had been invested in this in the institutional building.
in addition, it should be borne in mind that in 2003, france and germany launched a major social security reform programme which had a decisive positive impact on the sustainability of public finances.
i do not know exactly whether it is on the agenda, but i would ask, if possible, that the vote on the environmental liability directive which we are discussing tonight be held not tomorrow at noon but on wednesday at noon.
the directive can therefore respond to the great hopes of our citizens for public health and the environment and we must not weaken it, mr president and ladies and gentlemen.
it has been shown that compromise solutions can be found, such as compulsory insurance being gradual but not passing the cost of the damage on to the taxpayer and allowing the polluter to cover the damage through insurance; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies, and that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
is it possible to speak of agricultural and forestry practices which can somehow justify the use of chemical fertilizers, pesticides and herbicides, when we all know - from the statistics of the union itself - the damage they can cause to biodiversity, soil and water?
is it possible to make pollution permits in a way that is completely white-washed, accepting the full exemption of those who have permits or respect the existing state of the art?
the directive cannot be silent on genetically modified organisms and the damage that their free use can cause, just as there can be no reference to the damage caused by the use of shipping or the use of nuclear energy.
mr president, the council has partially aligned itself with the european parliament's position on the exemptions from environmental liability of operators, which in the commission's original text were so broad that they essentially reversed the implementation of the 'polluter pays' principle.
at the same time, however, in order to mitigate the burdensome consequences for the non-infringing undertakings, it was accepted by parliament that the authorisation or the failure to validly diagnose the harmful effects of the activity in question could act as mitigating circumstances when the operator is charged with the costs of restoring the ecological damage.
the ship's cook cannot be held responsible for an accident which was caused by the ship, and for which the master is responsible, and which resulted in pollution; nor the sailor who is sweeping; nor the head of the salvage company.
in this respect, albania was fully informed that a constructive political climate and a sustainable reform policy remain crucial elements for progress in the negotiations for the stabilisation and association agreement and thus for further rapprochement with the eu.
the council used the joint action on the appointment of a special representative of the european union to set out a number of objectives of the union's policy in the south caucasus which are now in the public domain: (a) assist armenia, azerbaijan and georgia in the implementation of political and economic reforms, in particular in the areas of the rule of law, democratisation, human rights, good governance, development and poverty reduction; (b) in accordance with existing instruments, prevent conflict in the region, assist in conflict resolution and prepare for the return to peace, including through support for the return of refugees and internally displaced persons; (c) engage constructively with the main national actors in neighbouring countries; (d) to encourage and support further cooperation between the states of the region, in particular the states of the south caucasus, particularly as regards economic, energy and transport issues; (c) to increase the union's effectiveness and visibility in the region.
- the agenda calls for a joint debate on three recommendations for second reading on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0452/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on traditional herbal medicines (12754/1/2003 - c5-0519/2003 - 2002/0008 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr nisticò).
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (α5-0458/2003), on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on measuring instruments (9681/4/2003 - c5-0417/2003 - 2000/0233 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr chichester).
sustainable solutions depend heavily on the ability of local communities to build relationships of trust and cooperation between conflicting groups.
there were colleagues, austrian members of parliament, who, in my view, had every reason to be aware of the issues we were discussing, because the austrian people were, and still are, particularly aware of this issue and that is why there was a protocol on this when austria joined the european union in 1995. but the validity of these provisions has expired and, for this reason, the european parliament's view from the first reading was that 2006 should be the last year in which there should be specific arrangements for austria, all the more so as there was also an improvement in environmental protection, which was also recorded in the statistics provided to us by the european commission.
however, from 2006 onwards, austria will be subject to the same rules as other european countries, and the main reason is that, at least according to statistics, there is an improvement in environmental indicators, to which the improvement of the truck fleet is a decisive contributor.
so we have an improvement in the environmental performance of trucks passing through austria.
i should like to state at the outset our categorical opposition to the cultivation of genetically modified products and to point out for the first time the hypocrisy of the commission which, while implementing the revision of the cap, with the basic principle of supposedly improving the quality of agricultural products, guaranteeing food hygiene and safety, environmental protection, etc., promotes the cultivation of genetically modified products.
the most characteristic example of its hypocrisy is tobacco, for which, under the pretext of protecting public health and sustainable development, subsidies are drastically reduced with the aim of abolishing the cultivation of tobacco for good.
recently, michael meacher, the environment minister in the first blair government, made a statement published in the british newspaper independent saying the following: i don't see how the blair government could issue responsible permits for gm crops.
of the 210 pieces grown, half were modified and half were conventional, and the results of the survey are particularly revealing of the potential risks to the environment and to consumer health.
in addition, nobel laureate professor sherwood rowland points out that once mutated organisms are released into the environment and found to be harmful to the environment, it will be impossible to stop their harmful effects.
the mutated organisms will continue, multiplying continuously, their destructive work as weapons of mass environmental destruction.
as for the hypocritical appeal to the polluter pays principle, i do not understand how one can assess the environmental costs and the damage to consumer health on the one hand, and on the other hand, i fear that the responsibility, indirectly but clearly, is being placed on the producers themselves.
in conclusion, mr president, the european parliament has only one obligation to european farmers, consumers and the environment: to say a firm and total no to the cultivation of genetically modified organisms.
all of these are looking for their own operating framework within the digital environment.
this money is being given without any basic conditions being set to stop the killing of innocent victims, the destruction of the country's infrastructure and the environment.