a prime example of this, in the irish context, is environmental legislation.
this delayed action and the absence of a coordinated eu response aggravated the environmental impact.
if this incident, with the consequences it had for the shared environment and european fishing industries, had occurred in eu waters, and if an eu coastguard had existed, the response time would have been reduced, a refuge port would have been designated and the damage could have been minimised.
in this report we are presented with proposals to remove the barriers and distortions in the european union post-trading environment, to create a level playing field between institutions, a common regulatory view and the development of rights of access and choice.
i would also like to congratulate my colleague, mr mussa, for his work on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy in tackling issues which were not fully addressed in the commission proposal, in particular training for health professionals, nurses and those involved in specific expert care for the elderly.
- the commission's communication on the future of health and care for older people, focusing on accessibility, quality and financial sustainability, provides a useful framework for policy exchange on the challenges facing all member states in this area.
would you accept that the problem that we face in the seas of europe is not only about maritime safety and environmental pollution?
the political mandate also includes the commitment of the ebrd to take environmental concerns into account in all its activities and to promote sustainable development.
targeted support for the development of entire value chains in a region can create regional and social economic cycles that enable sustainable economies, which is one of the bank's mandated tasks.
firstly, the bank's dual political and economic mandate; the implementation of a policy of conditionality of its interventions in such important areas as the environment, to which mr markov referred; or the double obligation of additionality and profitability of its financing, which obliges the bank to assume risks different from those which private operators would assume.
in particular, when it refers to the need to give greater consideration to the political and social aspects of restructuring operations in the productive sector, when it speaks of the more active role in the sustainable development of the energy sector and when it refers to the strengthening of the bank's operations at municipal level.
firstly, its competence in the region, because of its close familiarity with the realities of these countries, and secondly, its practice of conditionality, which has often enabled the bank's interventions to promote compliance with european standards, particularly in environmental matters.
(es) mr president, the commission welcomes this report from parliament, which correctly identifies the challenges facing our aquaculture at the present time and is consistent with the guidelines set out in the commission communication on a strategy for the sustainable development of european aquaculture, adopted last september.
i am referring in particular to the initiatives envisaged in the review of legislation on food safety and health risks, environmental protection and animal welfare, the development of new breeding techniques and high quality species, increased governance and organisation of the industry and the overall development of aquaculture.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
on the one hand there are some very good things in it, to the extent that it addresses the whole issue of aquaculture and sustainable development and in particular its impact on the environment.
however, other parts of the report criticise eu environmental and health and food safety requirements.
it would appear to put business interests first, which is a very dangerous precedent because environmental and health and food safety requirements should come before any business interests.
whether we like it or not, that is what we are facing, plus the fact that aquaculture is an extremely dangerous industry in the impact it has on the environment.
there can be no question that all future development in the sector must be on a sustainable basis.
the highest priority must be given by the industry throughout the european union to the attainment of best practice in line with stringent environmental guidelines and high standards of quality assurance, as is currently the case in ireland.
as regards utification, i take note of the commission's caution in relation to an agriculture directive concerning water pollution.
i submit, therefore, that we need a specific directive in relation to any potential water pollution in the aquaculture sector.
in december, north korea cancelled its membership of the nuclear non-proliferation treaty, expelled the international atomic energy authority weapons inspectors and announced that it would reactivate a nuclear reactor and reprocessing plant producing weapons grade material.
i believe, however, that kedo was ill designed from the start, neither addressing north korea's immediate energy needs, nor delivering technology adaptable to the country's infrastructure.
i would ask the commission to respond to this point in particular, and to ensure that the money be spent on a proposal to provide clean energy from north korea's electricity plants, by reconstructing its ancient conventional energy plants so as to make them efficient, by contributing to the proposed gas pipeline from irkutsk as well as developing the great potential in korea for wind and solar energy, bio-mass and geothermics.
(mr de rossa: 'i wish to continue') you can go on if you like, but i'm not going to waste my time on this issue.
- on behalf of parliament, i have the pleasure of welcoming to the house the danish parliament's committee on energy policy, the folketing, and its chairman, mrs madsen, who has just taken her seat in the official gallery.
just last month, commissioner lamy proposed a pragmatic solution which, in his view, is workable, sustainable and legally secure, because it complies with both the doha mandate and the compromise text of 16 december 2002 that was discussed within the wto.
the 36%, 45%, 55% proposals at world trade talks, together with the mid-term review of the common agricultural policy – which includes proposals for decoupling and modulation – and the uncertain implications of enlargement, have created a climate of serious mistrust in a commissioner who wants to tear up an existing decision of eu heads of government after only two and a half years of a seven-year agreement.
the opportunities provided by this protocol for eu fisheries companies, combined with the process of privatisation in chilean fisheries, threaten the sustainability of the artisanal fisheries sector.
mr president, there is no doubt that liberalisation of the transport market has delivered positive benefits for the mobility of goods and people, but this is in the context of a continuing predominance of road traffic, growing congestion and harmful effects on the environment and public health.
we also have the environmental impact on our air quality.
in the political climate we are living in, the european union must succeed in making progress at this summit on a number of crucial issues, which will show how much we can strengthen the notions of trust, certainty and optimism in our europe.
competitiveness, employment, social cohesion and sustainable development are the tools to achieve these objectives.
even very recently, we have reached a good agreement on the liberalisation of the energy market, the single european sky, the revised competition rules, the tax package, and there has been progress in financial services.
the economic recession in many oecd countries, the growing international tensions and the climate of insecurity they create are particularly noticeable for the lisbon strategy, and indeed we are seeing a slowdown in the achievement of its interim objectives.
the greek presidency wants to support the enlargement of the economy with the social element and with sustainable development.
ladies and gentlemen, the weak economic growth of recent years, as well as the growing concern about its prospects, the fear of a further increase in unemployment, developments in environmental challenges, but also the widespread pessimism on international markets, fuelled by the concerns generated by business problems and the decline in business expectations, make the need for progress on these issues imperative.
within these limits, the presidency has identified a number of critical issues of primary concern which certainly relate to the three main objectives of economic reform and competitiveness, employment and social cohesion and sustainable development.
in the field of economic reform and competitiveness, i would like to focus on six themes: the management of macroeconomic policy, the opening up of markets to financial services, energy and transport, the development of entrepreneurship, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises, the importance of research, technology and policy for an information society, the importance of education as a key element in investing in knowledge and human capital and, finally, the interconnection of the networks of the various systems.
the commission will continue to work on the taxation of energy, with a view to reaching a political agreement.
in relation to energy, the presidency will make every effort to reach agreement on full and functional market liberalisation, taking into account public interest obligations, security of supply and the protection of vulnerable areas and groups of the population.
we shall endeavour to facilitate the creation of a suitable business climate.
the third area, sustainable development, will be the focus of the review of the union's sustainable development strategy at the spring 2003 summit, based on the outcome of the johannesburg world conference.
it gives us the opportunity to show the world the role of the union in protecting the environment and in adopting policies that can combine development with environmental protection and quality of life.
the spring council will provide an opportunity to define clearly the main lines of the strategic approach to balanced sustainable development and to set concrete objectives which will act as an incentive for further progress.
in order to further the objective of sustainable development, we will work to review the eu strategy of the same name, to decouple economic growth from the wasteful use of natural resources and environmental degradation, and to implement the johannesburg decisions.
priority will be given to the ten-year framework of programmes for sustainable production and consumption, i.e.
clean technologies, material and energy savings, initiatives and the process of integrating the environmental dimension into international and community policies and actions.
the commission has also been active in the implementation of the action plan to remove obstacles to the development of environmental technologies, and in the development of a global strategy for chemicals.
i would also like to point out, in the context of sustainable development, that in the shipping sector too, priority will be given to safety of navigation, especially in conjunction with the prevention of marine pollution, after the prestige accident, and that adherence to the timetable for considering the relevant legislative proposal is a major priority for the presidency.
mr president of the parliament, mr president of the commission, ladies and gentlemen, i should like to conclude by stressing that during the greek presidency we will make every effort to confirm confidence in and commitment to the lisbon strategy and to enhance its effectiveness, particularly in the present economic climate and in view of the forthcoming enlargement of the european union to ten new member states.
we must improve access for small companies to know-how and to finance, and we must simplify our regulatory environment.
3g relay masts must be positioned with due regard for the environment.
hence the need for mast-sharing and for the commission to take full consideration of the environment in its proposals.
we must strive to promote a vibrant e-commerce environment and ensure that small and medium-sized enterprises take full advantage of the new and evolving technologies to achieve this.
it is tendentious to quote the euratom commission which exists explicitly to promote nuclear technology and whose radiation safety levels were originally set to allow atmospheric testing in the 1950s.
mr president, firstly i would like to thank ms stihler for drawing up this report and indeed the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
mr president, i support the action plan of the european commission, which seeks to promote the greater use of alternative fuels in europe between now and 2010. firstly, biofuels help to reduce over-dependence on oil-based fuels, which is a cause for concern as regards both the environment and security of supply.
secondly, biofuels are environmentally friendly and they emit between 40 and 80% fewer greenhouse gases than fossil fuels.
we all know the target we must reach to comply with the provisions of the kyoto accord and reduce the excessive use of greenhouse gases, which only result in a depletion of the ozone layer.
biofuels are in many cases manufactured from organic waste.
this makes it possible to use waste materials, which would normally be thrown away, in order to produce energy.
the economic and environment benefits are obvious.
the lisbon strategy, as we all know, aims to make the european economy the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable growth, with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
areas of literacy, digital developments, vocational training and lifelong learning must be seen as key parts of the package to give the people of europe the necessary tools to be able to meet with the demands of an ever-changing economic environment.
first of all, one of the key elements must be protection of our environment.
this legislation will reduce the risk to human health and the environment posed by pesticides and is aimed at halving the quantities used within a decade.
- the main objective of this strategy is to reduce the impacts of pesticides on human health and the environment.
it is important that the european parliament continue to monitor developments in hong kong and this report provides an important update on many issues, not least on article 23, the proposed anti-sedition legislation, on which we passed a resolution in december 2002. the report assesses the current developments in the areas of institutional development, the rule of law, human rights, the economy, environment and eu-hong kong cooperation.
recommendation (a5-0110/2003) by mr westendorp y cabeza, on behalf of the committee on industrial policy, external economic relations, research and energy, on the proposal for a council decision on the position to be taken by the european community on the draft united nations economic commission for europe regulation on uniform provisions for the approval of i. specific lpg systems for retrofitting to motor vehicles for the use of lpg (bottled gas) in the propulsion system ii.
if we really want to exercise influence on the world stage, then eu leaders must agree on merging the functions of the high representative and the commissioner for external relations, served by a single administration, adequately resourced, and using all our instruments in the policy areas – such as trade, development, environment, justice and home affairs – to support clear political objectives at the heart of our foreign policy.
i would have some dispute with you with regard to thermo-nuclear fusion being an alternative energy source, because it already exists.
third is the question of our commitments to kyoto and to a clean fuel technology, using wind, water, air and solar energy.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0131/2003), on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to adopting a european parliament and council decision adopting a multiannual programme of action in the field of energy: 'intelligent energy - europe' (2003-2006) (15547/3/2003 - c5-0037/2003 - 2002/0082 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs mcnally).
i would also strongly argue that the principle of covering radiation pollution should be included too.
the people of ireland will regard this directive as a sick joke if radiation is not included, as sellafield is one of the single most serious threats to the irish environment.
unmovic and the international atomic energy agency should return to iraq at the earliest opportunity and complete their mission.
we could fill this hemicycle with reports of the accidents, leakages, damage to the environment, damage to human beings and damage to property caused by bad management, faulty construction and bad design of this type of magnox plants.
it is essential to have that commitment now, at a time when the nuclear industry is saying that nuclear power can be good for kyoto and good for the environment.
a year from now, the european union will be a body of 25 member states bringing together the energy, knowledge and ability of 450 million europeans.
they are joining the union with the same level of energy.
in particular, although many member states ring-fence these funds, france and germany are allowed to set aside the funds for waste management and use them for acquisitions.
it would otherwise have had a very distorting effect on the energy market across europe.
i also very much welcome the inclusion of sustainability objectives and the equal status given to sustainability together with competition and with security of supply.
in particular, renewable energies need to be promoted throughout europe.
mr president, the rapporteurs involved in this series of reports deserve our utmost praise and appreciation for their trojan efforts which enabled us to agree on the energy package at second reading and avoid lengthy conciliations.
if we want to achieve our lisbon goals of making europe the most competitive economy in the world by 2020, we need a truly unified internal market in our major energy resources.
this would have been particularly problematic in small member states like ireland where there are some naturally imposed restrictions on energy subdivisions due to the geographical isolation and the limited size of the population.
clearly the way forward for an energy market such as the irish one is through interconnection.
i am pleased that this point has been taken on board and that it has been recognised that building interconnectors is a valid way of opening up the energy market.
the european approach in opening up energy markets and making them more efficient is well balanced.
in the time available it is not possible to evaluate the proposals other than to say that the status quo is not an option, the bottom line must be a sustainable profit margin for farmers, and we need assurances that, whatever the outcome, they are fully protected in the context of the wto talks.
we have a duty of care to farmers in the developing world which we can and will discharge in the context of a level world playing field but, as european legislators, our primary duty of care is to our own farmers and to a sustainable future for agriculture in the eu, the largest agricultural producer and the largest economy in the world.
if the commission is being consistent in wanting to have a more ecological and sustainable approach to fishing, then surely it should not do that.
it completely flies in the face of conservation and sustainable fishing and there is no justification for it.
in my opinion, the commission's approach to this whole problem is a negation of its responsibility on conservation and sustainability of stocks and a recipe for conflict.
i know that it is serious about sustainability of stocks.
this commitment is in line with my country's permanent orientation towards privileged cooperation with europe, as evidenced by algeria's commitment to making europe its major energy market from the beginning of the 1970s.
with the european union, we have traditionally had regular political consultation, a nourishing and constructive dialogue, characterised by the exchange of numerous delegations of political parties and parliamentarians who contribute to the establishment of a climate of understanding in our relations, through a mutual desire to get to know each other better in order to cooperate better.
in this context, it is of the utmost importance that globalisation is effectively turned into an opportunity for the development of the countries of the south, by stimulating innovative forms of partnership that can trigger a dynamic of sustainable growth and development.
the tragic events of 11 september 2001, which brought the horror to its climax, illustrate this truth that in the world of today and tomorrow, there can be no sanctuary of security and prosperity in an environment of vulnerability, disorder and deprivation.
it is an opportunity to discuss issues of importance to both sides, to work together to tackle serious issues of concern to international and bilateral developments and to reverse the climate that has often prevailed in recent months.
in this area, we should be able to develop a common understanding of the new security environment and be able to respond effectively to new challenges and threats.
at their informal meeting in early may, the foreign ministers instructed the high representative of the union to prepare a general report on the new security environment, the challenges and threats arising from it and ways in which the union could deal with them, to be presented and discussed for the first time at the thessaloniki european council.
the main focus of thessaloniki will therefore be the adoption of a number of guidelines, such as the revised european employment strategy, the recording of progress on various objectives, such as public procurement, energy, environmental responsibility and the adoption of the package for the reform of the common agricultural policy, although it is difficult to foresee the final outcome of this issue at present.
(applause) recommendation for second reading (a5-0136/2003) on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on common rules for the internal market in electricity and repealing directive 96/92/ec (15528/2/2002 - c5-0034/2003 - 2001/0077 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr claude turmes) before the vote:
- mr vermeer, can you confirm that the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party is withdrawing these amendments?
this nationalistic approach in parliament towards fisheries is extremely hard to accept from an ecological point of view.
the vast majority of parliament would have supported that position because it was a very fair and reasonable compromise.we are in a situation which sends a very bad signal from an ecological and sustainable fisheries point of view.
we need to look at what is on the menu in the parliament and what kind of example we are setting in relation to ecological sustainability and the protection of certain species.
eu environmental and food safety laws can form a safety net between farming and the world trade organisation.
farmers need to wake up and stop opposing environmental legislation, such as the nitrates directive, and realise that these laws could protect them against the wto.
the principle of cross-compliance, which means compliance with environmental and safety laws, is an important part of parliament's proposals.
i am particularly pleased that parliament explicitly recognises the need for an integrated approach, a robust environmental assessment and the application of a regional approach, underlined now when the marine strategy is being implemented.
i would also like to stress that the commission intends to develop the so-called ecosystem approach to human activities and this will definitely be one of the main pillars in the strategy.
– mr president, when you look at the list of threats to marine biodiversity, overfishing is the first problem that is mentioned.
the main environmental damage is caused by overfishing of depleted stocks of commercially valuable fish, not to mention damage to non-targeted species including fish and damage to the marine habitat such as coral beds.
we are going to end up with a serious problem in relation to the marine environment.
unless crops are grown, harvested, processed, eaten, and even the waste disposed of in laboratories, it is inevitable that there will be contamination.
what we have agreed in parliament, in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, does not go far enough.
this is a major problem for countries like ireland that have not done anything about their waste problem.
burning waste and calling it recovery is stretching the imagination to the extreme.
i support the objective of this directive to minimise the impact of packaging and packaging waste, as long as the costs are proportionate to the environmental benefits.
it is often forgotten that packaging waste is only a small proportion of total landfill.
to comply with this directive we must ship packaging waste overseas or build more reprocessing facilities and export the empty packaging, which is uneconomic.
the cost will not be proportional to the environmental benefit.
i underline what ms jackson said to us, on the commission's recent communication on the thematic strategy on the prevention and recycling of waste, published in may 2003. from an environmental point of view it is more important to optimise collection and recycling in the community as a whole, rather than to consider whether this takes place in a particular member state.
mr president, the unanimous sign-off of this emissions trading directive in december 2002 at the council of ministers was a major wake-up call to corporate europe and a signal that this was actually going to happen.
ireland has one of the worst records, second only to spain, for greenhouse gas emissions.
national emissions allowance capping will ensure that quantifiable kyoto objectives are met and that we decouple economic growth from increased greenhouse gas emissions.
the national cap on allowances can start from the 2003 emissions level and not from that of 1990, provided that the allowances are decreased to the kyoto figure by 2012. amendment no 43 is very important as it allows member states to benchmark the best available technology for allowance allocation.
it is critical to secure the viability of the emissions trading market in the short term if it is to survive in the longer term.
as regards the environment, perhaps the greens do not know that among president berlusconi's hobbies the main one is that of flowers, greenery, gardens and parks.
if you read our programme on page 49, mr frassoni, you will find that we want to introduce high levels of environmental protection; i would like to say that our policy, despite what is wrongly said, is precisely in the direction of greater protection of the environment, and we are the first to be perplexed by the fact that too often the expansion of production and industry has gone against the environment.
the lisbon process, which has emerged today as a strong point, is our point of reference, because europe must meet the global challenge, but it must meet it with a balanced and socially sustainable development.
we have already stressed the new commitment to infrastructure, and it will be our task and duty to be rigorous and selective in assessing the costs and benefits, as well as being equally rigorous in finding sources of financing that are compatible with our rules and long-term sustainability.
in this context it should go without saying that the commission is obliged to defend strenuously vital interests in these areas, in particular in insisting on full inclusion of the so-called non-trade aspects, such as environmental sustainability, consumer protection, social and regional equilibrium.
uncertainty about the long-term economic sustainability of farming, coupled with the availability of more financially rewarding employment for young people, has led to a worrying increase in the age profile of european farmers, of whom 37% are women.
the cohesion fund is an invaluable tool in helping less well-off member states catch up, particularly in the development of infrastructure networks and upgrading of water supplies, in order to contribute to the long-term sustainable development of disadvantaged regions.
if we add to this lost national revenues and damage to the environment and to biodiversity we see that mexico's experience of seeking to develop its agricultural sector through trade liberalisation has had devastating consequences.
draftsman of the opinion of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy would like member states to look at what policy instruments could be used to promote cultural industries.
there is a wonderful climate.
if the commission's original erika package had been implemented, single-hulled tankers like the prestige would have been replaced by 2002. the prestige disaster highlighted the gaps in the implementation of eu legislation and the lack of a sufficient eu response mechanism, which aggravated the environmental impact.
the prestige incident should have been viewed as occurring in eu waters, with potentially devastating consequences for the shared environment and european fishing industries.
environmental disasters of this magnitude underline the need for an eu coastguard.
as well as the problems of marine pollution, european citizens are also alarmed that our coastal waters are being exploited by organised crime for trafficking in arms, drugs, cigarettes and human beings.
furthermore, given the present geo-political climate, with the increased possible threat of terrorist attacks using the seas of europe, we should consider how best to prevent such an attack occurring.
at present, the member states must contain a level of oil stocks equivalent to 90 days' consumption for each of the three main categories of petroleum products for energy use.
the proposal before us today is intended to replace existing european union directives which govern this important energy policy matter.
we live in an internal market and there must be solidarity between the member states and the european union in the event of energy supply problems.
there must also be a necessary reserve of key energy products in stock.
i believe that there is a role for the commission in dealing with this sensitive issue and that this energy matter is best coordinated at european union level in the interests of european industry and the citizens of the european union.
it is also welcome that the council agreement in brussels in october 2002 brought stability and predictability to farmer spending up to 2013. furthermore, the most recent luxembourg agreement on cap reform ensures that payments will shift away from trade-distorting subsidies to payments based on services to society provided by our farmers in areas such as the environment, food safety and animal welfare.
at its meeting on 29 september 2003, the general affairs council held an initial discussion on the draft agenda annotated and will return to the subject at its next meeting on 13 october, on the basis of an updated version of the agenda which will also reflect the conclusions of the justice and home affairs and ecofin councils' meetings held earlier this month and the transport, telecommunications and energy council meeting on 9 october.
the recent general power outage in italy has made us all the more aware of the urgent need to complete the creation of a truly integrated european energy market and to strengthen the security of energy supplies, not to mention the member states' heavy dependence on imported energy.
the european council will therefore have to give guidelines, in particular for a better integration of european networks and for the development of new forms of energy cooperation with third countries, in particular with mediterranean partners, in the run-up to the euro-mediterranean conference of energy ministers in rome at the beginning of december.
however, across europe, social protection systems now face the challenge of an ageing population and, while it will be necessary to ensure the strengthening of the social dimension and its full integration into the union's economic and employment policies, it is equally essential to develop labour market reform policies and address the continuing ageing of the european population by reforming benefit and pension systems to make them financially sustainable, while at the same time maintaining a high level of social protection.
we cannot talk about sustainability and development as two separate items.
i do not see anything yet to prove that the european union has not merely a sustainable approach to fisheries agreements, but also an approach that takes into account the concerns of the developing countries.
we share the same world view about life, the environment and social issues.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0343/2003) by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy on the council's common position with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the monitoring of forests and environmental interactions in the community (forest focus) (8243/01/03 - c5-0292/2003 - 2002/0164 (cod)) (rapporteur: mrs redondo jiménez).
mr president, we are absolutely obliged to take steps to propose to parliament that a clear and effective mechanism be set up to monitor greenhouse gas emissions.
these responsibilities lie primarily with the member states and it is time, as i said, that we assumed our responsibility not only for the health of our population today, but for the protection of our environment for tomorrow's generations as well.
last week's report indicated that three countries – ireland, spain and italy – accounted for almost half of the five hundred infringements of environmental laws in the european union over the last five years.
it is important to recognise the tremendous efforts that have been made by france and finland to reduce their emissions between 1990 and 1995. this proposal replaces the mechanism in operation since 1993 for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions and evaluating progress towards meeting commitments in respect of these emissions.
we all agree on the importance of complying with the kyoto protocol on climate change.
evidence is getting stronger that most of the global warming over the last 50 years is attributable to human activities.
these activities relate to the burning of fossil fuels and deforestation, which have caused emissions of carbon dioxide and other greenhouse gases.
we want to see all industrialised countries take urgent action to reduce or limit future greenhouse gas emissions.
the european union is implementing the european climate change programme, which will ensure that the union achieves the 8% cut in emissions between 2008 and 2012, which is our political commitment under the kyoto protocol.
mr president, let me start by acknowledging the contribution that my colleague, mr moreira da silva, has made to the emissions trading directive and all matters relating to kyoto for so long.
this evening we are dealing with a proposal for revising the monitoring mechanisms laid down in the united nations framework convention on climate change and in the kyoto protocol.
new rules are necessary for many reasons: scientific progress in the last decade, new elements such as carbon sinks, the transboundary nature of gas emissions and the obvious need for a community approach and the harmonisation of rules in this area.
in other words, as the european environment agency has told us, we need consistency and transparency in reporting on greenhouse gas emissions.
the proposal is also relevant for the assessment of national allocation plans under the proposed emissions trading directive, which is going through at the moment.
the last time we looked, emissions were already at 1990 levels, plus 22%.
one has to ask what will happen to the hazardous waste that we are told makes up a significant proportion of these ships.
the environment is more important at this stage than a few hundred jobs.
we are not sure whether we can be guaranteed that the routes will not change, but irrespective of that we have to look at our commitment, and the uk has to look at its commitment, to eu legislation – in particular the waste shipment regulation.
i would like to ask the commission whether the uk's action is in breach of article 19(3) of the waste shipment regulation and article 4 of the waste framework directive.
this is actually about protecting jobs that already exist and about protecting our environment and indeed our fishing industry.
in relation to agricultural expenditure, i fully agree that more emphasis must be placed on the environment, food safety, traceability, animal welfare and consumer information.
it is involved in all sectors of our economy - health, road, agriculture, decentralisation - and supports all our efforts for sustainable growth.
the three basic options were followed by eight sectors: infrastructure, education and training, health, agriculture, new information and communication technologies, environment, energy and, finally, access to the markets of developed countries.
as regards the environmental dimension, i would remind you that paragraph 24 of the conclusions includes the environmental dimension in the growth process as an element designed to catalyse innovation and modernisation in key sectors such as energy and transport.
trust, mr frassoni, also means, and above all, social and environmental sustainability, in line with the policies of the commission which, let us not forget, has in recent months tried to impose itself in a very delicate field such as energy policy, devoting a large part of our research resources to hydrogen and alternative energies.
the very sensitive issue of the protection and health of the environment and the chemical industry was also raised.
we have also had major problems with regard to marine pollution, the erika package and, more recently, the prestige disaster.
surely this is a mistake, as we are investing in infrastructure that is essential for economic growth to create a stronger economy and a stable growth environment.
like many other species, stocks are far below sustainable levels, and this has led to massive socio-economic problems in coastal communities.
the socio-economic problems have arisen from an ecological problem.
it is claimed that the common fisheries policy is getting on to a sustainable basis as a result of the reform of 2002. there have been some advances, such as better provision for control with improved cooperation among member states and the possibility of effort limitation, in addition to classic limits on the amount of fish caught and recognition of the precautionary approach which is essential.
the ultimate goal has to be sustainable fisheries through regional management, by opening up the governance of the common fisheries policy and helping to overcome mistrust and scepticism.
i have to reject amendment no 11, but at the same time i would like to point out that ices is in the process of finalising the ecosystem study on the impact of industrial fishing and should new findings emerge from this study, we will take them into account.
considering that their objective was to achieve a balance on a sustainable basis between resources and their exploitation, and in the light of the advice coming from ices over the past few days, it can be safely concluded that they have been a resounding failure.
these aspects are also important in fostering the investment climate in these two countries and in making them attractive to investors.
and we will be following very closely the areas where further progress is needed: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
this is also important for the investment climate in both countries and for their attractiveness as investment locations.
add to this the fact that our kyoto co2 emissions are now at 1990 levels plus 22% – already 10% over target for 2010, and the fact that there will be little or no decrease in car prices even if there is a removal or reduction in vrt because car manufacturers have had to reduce their prices to offset our high tax regime - and they will revert their prices if the tax burden is lightened - and you have altogether a very complicated field of play.
the rate of this tax should fully reflect each member state's requirements – environmental, economic and physical.
i have been taught a painful lesson over the past few days, but this will only give me additional energy to pursue progress and democracy in lithuania.
the development of the single market will not be affected if we fail to link up the telecommunications, energy and transport networks.
in close cooperation with the european investment bank, we have identified 56 projects in the fields of transport networks, energy, telecommunications and research.
in drawing up this list, we have applied very clear criteria: firstly, it is work whose projects are at an advanced stage and which can be started immediately; secondly, all projects have a strong cross-border impact; finally, we chose works that can have a multiplier effect on investments - especially private ones - and that have only a small impact on the environment.
in addition, in the fields of research and the environment, we have committed ourselves to promoting projects with a strong innovative component.
we must keep our eyes on our goals: peace, sustainable development, solidarity and freedom.
however, they should withdraw this proposal, return to the drawing-board and ensure there is mandatory self-handling which would provide for prior authorisation and would include criteria relating to employment, the social aspects, professional qualifications and environmental considerations.
at this point in time, it is also clear that the hipc initiative has to be considered as a first important step towards long-term debt sustainability and that it will not be sufficient to ensure the beneficiary countries meet the millennium development goals, especially in countries badly affected by hiv/aids.
moreover, the adverse economic effects of hiv/aids are now much more clearly recognised than they were when the hipc initiative was launched, and the commission agrees that it must consider hiv/aids when also discussing long-term debt sustainability.
mr president, i welcome the commission's proposal and the amendments by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy to that proposal, which seeks to improve the existing regulations on the transport of waste, particularly the transnational transport of waste.
they are now lying there during the winter, to be returned to the united states, creating a further risk to the environment.
i welcome the proposals in this report to tighten the definition of waste recovery, to encourage member states to solve the household waste issue self-sufficiently.
this has had a significant impact on the amount of waste.
we still have a huge waste problem in ireland.
mr president, i should also like to thank mr blokland for his report on the proposal before us, which deals with shipments of waste and the various procedures and control regimes they must follow, the requirements of which are to be determined by the type of waste shipped and the type of treatment that would be applied to the waste at its destination.
it deals with different levels of control, depending on the risks posed by the waste and its treatment in terms of recovery or disposal.
under the proposal, shipments of all waste destined for disposal and shipments of hazardous and semi-hazardous waste destined for recovery will be subject to the requirement of prior written notification and consent.
non-hazardous or what is termed 'green list waste for recovery' would remain subject neither to notification nor consent.
in other words, the present requirements would remain for green listed waste.
there is no doubt that a greater administrative burden will fall on waste companies exporting waste across eu borders and on competent authorities of dispatch.
nevertheless, the harmonisation and tightening up of procedures is generally very welcome from an environmental protection perspective.
we will be dependent on the orderly shipment of waste for the foreseeable future.
it was carrying 2 200 tonnes of shredded car waste from cork in the south-west of ireland to lübeck in germany.
mrs jackson gave me a plastic bag of this waste, recovered by the environmental ngos when they were cleaning up the beach in cornwall.
it does not take a genius to work out that recovery does not mean incinerating waste.
this is an appalling waste of resources.
we are throwing away a large amount of jobs by allowing the waste to be burned.
this is not an economical way of dealing with waste in the long-term nor it is good for the environment or public health.
- i fully support the european commission in its very strict approach to the regulation of waste shipments on eu territory and in eu waters.
we are all aware of the devastating consequences for our environment - and for animal and sometimes human life - of inadequate controls when it comes to waste transport.
i hope that appropriate legal measures will prevent the remaining piles of scrap metal laden with hazardous waste from crossing the atlantic for dismantling in the uk.
my group tabled two amendments on this report to underline that, apart from being against the development of weapons in general, we are very much against the development of military technology, the use of which is damaging to the environment.
this country, which 35 years ago only offered emancipatory education to a small elite, has felt the powerful energy of its greatest natural resource - the genius of its people - strengthened by wider access to education".
a key task during ireland's tenure will be to advance the lisbon agenda of social, economic and environmental renewal.
the irish presidency will seek to increase the relevance of the lisbon agenda by focusing on areas that affect our everyday lives, because there can be no doubt that economic competitiveness, growth and investment, job creation, social protection, social inclusion, and sustainable development are all critical issues for the quality of life of europe's citizens and for the relevance of the union in their lives.
now, a new generation, probably the most privileged ever to inhabit this continent, will have a chance to see what great strength is created when 15 becomes 25, when the restless energy of a half a billion people, working with each other and for each other, is harnessed to the task of writing europe's best and happiest chapter yet.
the committee also called for the community to take the lead in international efforts to reduce atmospheric emissions from seagoing vessels.
this is of course closely linked to the maintenance of the strictest controls to ensure that our seas are protected from environmental damage caused by shipping.
air pollution is currently far too high, especially in and around ports.
finally, i would like to say that i strongly protest the threats to the marine environment around the coasts of ireland and other countries in north-west europe posed by the 'ghost fleet' of rotten american ships sent to british scrap yards.
(explanation of vote abbreviated pursuant to rule 137 (1) of the rules of procedure)
must_be_checked_more
- (el) mr president, i do not know exactly whether this is on the agenda, but i would like to ask, if possible, that the vote on the environmental liability directive under discussion tonight be held not at noon tomorrow but at noon on wednesday.
i would like to make one comment, however, which i consider to be of vital importance: i would like to ask you, ladies and gentlemen, not to waste in a few minutes all the work done in preparation for the brussels intergovernmental conference by too quickly calling proposals on which there is still no agreement 'acquis'.
the future is in a multifunctional agriculture which serves social, environmental and consumer needs.
in many respects this is an unnecessary waste of energy.
as a result of negotiations between all concerned, a compromise was agreed on prior to the vote in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, allowing for a consensus incorporating only two amendments tabled by myself and other colleagues from an original list of ten amendments.
this was a key concern of mine in my former amendment no 10, tabled in the environment committee, which was aimed, at one level, at avoiding the constraints imposed by an overly narrow and historical definition of traditional medicines, to further product development.
i would like to thank all the colleagues in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy for their hard work, but it is a fact that there is a great diversity of traditions within the community and the harmonisation of this legislation really risks losing products that are in safe use and have been in safe use for many years.
joint motion for a resolution the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally sensitive areas, and to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the supply of medicines, whether they are herbal or not, cannot take place in an environment without rules.