we want more environmental protection, a greater shift of goods from road to rail, more equality and thus more protection for the consumer.
more protection for consumers: i will give you an example of what happened two days ago in my own country, at the brenner pass, where dangerous transport which today has to be carried by road because the railway is not sufficient for this, caught fire, with a very worrying development for the environment, for the people.
we've slipped past the brink of an environmental disaster.
in line with the principle of solidarity and access to care for all, both social protection and the provision of quality health services in the member states will need to be maintained and improved in order to fully achieve the objectives of financial sustainability, accessibility and quality.
another important aspect to consider is the risk that the objective of financial sustainability is overvalued in relation to the costs of accessibility and quality.
(applause) i would like to thank
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy adopted a report on the proposal for a council directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to the labelling, presentation and advertising of foodstuffs for sale to the ultimate consumer.
with the launch of the master's degree, we guarantee european citizens access to health services, a high level of quality of care and the financial sustainability of care systems, which is one of the three objectives proposed by the barcelona european council.
i am glad to have heard today from commissioner solbes the appreciation he has for this report, and we can all see that there is a convergence on the issues of food safety, research, the environmental compatibility of this sector.
another objective - one to which this parliament is particularly attentive - is food safety, environmental impact and animal health.
this is not only, as it seems, to avoid unfair competition, but above all to make a real contribution to the quality of our sustainable development.
that is why, mr president, i call on the council, in synergy with the other european institutions, to work towards creating a more serene and cooperative climate between the countries of the union, so that we can reach a single agreement to tackle together the increasingly serious problems we face every day.
the public is understood in the sense of public structures, public institutions, and here instead the word public is understood as an expression of participation of citizens, associations in this process: the commission's proposal is based on the principle of subsidiarity, which is a process that is not new, a process that has already been mentioned in previous acts of the european union and which has initiated an assessment by citizens, within certain limits, of transparency, objectivity and their interest in environmental problems being dealt with in a certain way.
in essence, it is a question of giving the citizen the right to intervene in a field which affects him in any case, even if he does not want to, because the consequences of environmental damage fall mainly on the citizen.
although we are sorry, we cannot waste half our morning waiting for it, so we begin the discussion with the speakers present.
in the future, historians will recognize that our civilization bears a very grave responsibility if we do not change the order and timing of our actions, if we are not able to govern the processes of globalization in the name of environmental and social sustainability.
but then i thought: "how sweet it will be to vote for the korhola report, which will allow the pensioners' associations to be informed when the centre of milan will be closed to car traffic to make the environment cleaner, and pensioners will then be able, after consultation, to ask to be able, with their car, to go to the doctor to be treated, even when these decisions are taken! "
when you say, for example, "the rich can still be protectionist", you are saying something that is sacrosanct, but we saw it in doha: to do protectionism for rich countries means to talk about social clauses, to talk about environmental clauses, to talk about food security and to use these tools - as in doha we were confronted by indonesia, brazil, india - to do protectionism.
the united states passed its farmer's bill last spring: the commission has already made a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
it outlined a series of positive proposals for global policies on the environment, peace and freedom of opinion, the fight against hunger and disease.
for example, the first is that world agricultural trade and the negotiations which define and will define its aspects and procedures represent the moment of confrontation between the liberalization of markets and the will of governments to pursue the objectives of protectionist agricultural policies which go beyond mere production and which also invest the so-called non-trade aspects, such as environmental protection, food security, the protection and promotion of quality, the safeguarding of rural areas.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a good one.
the proposal maintains the system in force throughout austria and also the number of ecopoints available for 2003. the system's objective of reducing pollution by 60% over the past 12 years will be achieved in 2003. the proposal is therefore in line with the wishes of the heads of state and government, it is an extension for a limited period - one year renewable twice in succession for another year, i.e.
there are two requirements: the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a decision on the conclusion of the agreement on the free movement of goods and the single market, and on the protection of the environment, road safety and human health.
in essence, what is called, in a somewhat fashionable term, sustainable development.
finally, mr president, the discomfort is also due to the way in which attempts have been made, in this parliament, in a rather grotesque way, to construct a rather schematic opposition between those who are advocates and guarantors of respect for and quality of the environment and those who are guarantors of the interests of road hauliers.
our group - and i believe the whole parliament, which has made every effort to seek compromise amendments - has given priority to sustainable development and the quality of the environment in the alpine region.
the value of the caveri report and all the other amendments which have been tabled is that they have found compromise amendments which reconcile in a balanced way the requirements of environmental protection and the fundamental principle of free movement.
i too believe that the result of the committee on transport is a good result, unlike what the council has given us, and it is a good result precisely because it reconciles two things that are difficult to reconcile: on the one hand, respect, enhancement and intensification of all efforts to preserve the environment, here and there in the alps - there is an austrian side but there is also an italian side of the alps - and, on the other hand, respect for one of the key principles of this european union - if we believe in a european union - namely the internal market, the free movement of people, goods, the minimum foundations for a community of people, in addition to economic values.
we will not make any progress if the sacrosanct protection of legitimate interests - the protection and safeguarding of the environment - can be achieved only by beheading others, only by obscuring others.
let us now try to highlight what should be encouraged rather than what should be restricted: the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work is a good one, but it is not enough to say that the directive is a good one.
all this has helped to sharpen the situation with regard to the ecological defence of austria, but we must not forget - and this has never been considered - that there is another side, and that is the italian side, where i live.
we have never been awarded the same, identical ecological damage, which austria has been rewarded with eco-points and other means, as some of my colleagues have mentioned.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the white paper contains several elements of great and direct interest to italy, such as the problem of the alpine crossings, the financing of major infrastructure projects, the modal rebalance, sustainability and cohesion in europe.
i would like to point out that i agree with the honourable members, and it is also very clear in mr izquierdo's report - which i consider to be frankly balanced - that we are talking about sustainable transport, and that requires, first of all, a competitive transport system.
i would like to take the text we are discussing and make a few comments on competitiveness, respect for the environment and the integration of quality of services, safety and quality of life.
- the next item is the joint debate on the following reports, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy: - a5-0025/2003 by mr van velzen, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reuse and commercial exploitation of public sector documents (com (2002) 207 - c5-0292/2002 - 2002/0123 (cod)); - a5-0016/2003 by mrs auroi, on the full deployment of third generation mobile communications (2002/2240 (ini)); - a5-0013/2003 by mr paasilinna, on the communication from the commission: 'eeurope 2005: an information society for all' (action plan to be presented for the european council in seville on 21 and 22 june 2002) [2002/2242 (ini) ]; - a5-0434/2002 by mr khanbhai, on the commission communication on the impact of the e-economy on european businesses: economic analysis and policy implications (com (2001) 711 - c5-0285/2002 - 2002/2145 (cos))
commission.
mrs auroi’s report, as adopted by the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, sends an important signal at a time when the first 3g services are about to be launched.
we need to encourage solutions which favour a quick deployment of networks while also accommodating environmental needs.
the spring summit is likely to see the heads of state or government reaffirm - though in the present climate it is not certain - their commitment to the lisbon objectives.
well very well, we would say but we radicals believe however that, instead of setting or re-proposing big goals, we must do right away good and right things: urgently reform social security systems, which for many states represent not only a serious injustice towards future generations but also a real time bomb for the sustainability of public finances; the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms and will continue to monitor the implementation of the reforms.
despite some tentative progress, the basic idea of integrating economic, social and environmental policies has not yet developed in a meaningful and coherent way, either at member state or community level.
if we fully accept the view that social and environmental quality is not an accessory but a component of development and an essential factor in competitiveness, i believe that the open method of coordination must be strengthened.
experience shows that such ambitious objectives, such as those called for by the concept of sustainable development, cannot be achieved without a strong and widespread involvement of all social and institutional actors.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in this context, i consider it a serious limitation that this parliament has not yet succeeded in establishing an organisational and procedural framework for monitoring, evaluating and guiding sustainable development policies in a truly effective, i.e.
the fact is that the lk-4 scheme is not without problems either, since it places new environmental burdens on the areas concerned.
the ones that will make her win the 2006 world cup, if my dream comes true - i believe it is also the dream of the austrians - but also the points in the caveri report that allow the citizens of austria to have less pollution, even if the problem is still not solved.
we need to pay more attention to the environment, to food security, to animal rights, because these are quality of life issues.
secondly, a statement by the us secretary of state for defence in january last year, which reported an increase in radiation emissions from depleted uranium weapons used in afghanistan.
- the next item is the report (a5-0022/2003) by mrs encarnación redondo jiménez, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on the monitoring of forests and environmental interactions in the community (forest focus) [com (2002) 404 - c5-0351/2002 - 2002/0164 (cod) ].
it is not just an individual problem, but a question of the individual, the family, the immediate environment and the larger and smaller society.
it is therefore a problem of society as a whole, and i believe that this phenomenon, which, after being trivialised, is now entering a new phase in which a corresponding holistic approach is being taken, can only be addressed through dialogue, with the help and willingness of the whole environment, that is, the local direct environment, in particular, to provide care.
europe is showing that it can be liberalised in a regulatory environment and in ensuring the quality of services to citizens.
- (it) we can only agree with the perspectives presented; the priorities of accession of ten new states, stability and sustainable growth cannot be denied or postponed.
we must also work to ensure sustainable growth.
the european social dialogue has not yet been able to provide for minimum social standards for enterprises, especially in the countries of central and eastern europe, although a large proportion of these enterprises are from the present member states: this situation, which in those countries is usually combined with reduced taxation and a gradual awareness of the community acquis on environmental matters, is certainly creating new jobs, but it does not, however, give hope, even in the medium term, of the recovery of obvious social gaps.
if the answer is yes, as i believe, then the problem arises of how to coordinate, reconcile and synergize the different areas of union action in the fields of economic policy, social policy and employment, sustainable development, financial stability and growth.
there are only positive arguments in favour of biofuels: a move away from over-dependence, more environmental compatibility and an increase in income opportunities for farms.
it is therefore incomprehensible that there is so little sensitivity in some parts of the council, as in the case of the promotion of electricity from renewable sources.
i hope that this joint vote by the european parliament will also shake up the council, that it will show sensitivity and that we will thus achieve greater environmental compatibility, a strengthening of agriculture and, above all, less dependence in the energy sector.
what has been attempted is to have discussions between belgrade and pristina on issues of common interest, such as the return of refugees, security issues, network issues, energy issues, etc., where cooperation is needed, which will help to build greater trust between the two sides for further discussion on the final regime in the next phase.
i think that parliament should not waste another day responding to the commission's invitation and appointing as soon as possible the head of the observer mission so that he can go to cambodia immediately, make frequent visits and monitor the whole process by july.
the commission very much hopes that the political climate will not deteriorate further, especially now that the preparations for the forthcoming parliamentary elections in cambodia are under way.
all interlocutors in cambodia supported eu involvement in the electoral process and expressed the view that the eu's observer mission to the local elections last year had contributed greatly to creating a climate of trust and transparency during the electoral process.
this is the europe that is possible, and so let us not be ashamed to talk about lisbon, welfare, the labour market, energy, telecommunications, the task force, the stability pact, the convention, but let us move on!
the proposal is based on article 95 of the treaty and has two main objectives: on the one hand, to protect the internal market by introducing harmonised provisions on the placing on the market and use of the abovementioned substances; on the other hand, a high level of protection of public health and the environment must be achieved.
what we know about this syndrome is that it is transmitted by direct and environmental transmission.
i was also in naples, mr president, in beautiful naples, where i was greeted at the airport by the head of the naples party of pensioners, mr fortunato sommella, who, when he asked me to vote in favour of the report which also deals with the budget of the european environment agency, greeted me with the words: "remember, with regard to the environment, that we in naples wish and hope to have support and funds from europe to restore the beautiful hill of camaldoli, which overlooks the gulf of naples, so that the sun of naples can shine, not only here but also from you.
mr president, commissioner, i sincerely hope that this report, on which our friend peter liese has devoted so much energy, will be able to have a physiological, euthotic birth, without the use of force, as was the case with the report on blood, a report which has been controversial for many years but for which we have succeeded, with effective, intelligent and motivated cooperation between parliament, the commission and the council, in finding a solution after so many years.
the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers.
madam president, commissioner, i would not like to take up my time to explain the work done and its significance at a technical level, because i believe that it is sufficiently well known; i am not saying that this is a matter of presumption, but that it is a matter of the clear commitment of my colleagues in the committee on the environment, first of all in the presentation of a number of amendments.
i am therefore of the opinion that the work which has come out of the committee on the environment and has reached the house is as much involved as could be expected since the commission submitted its proposal to parliament.
this, however, was the operating philosophy and, in the context of this work, it is worth pointing out that, alongside the search for greater usability, functionality and organicity of the proposed rules, two further objectives were pursued: the first concerns the implementation of a practical sensitivity towards small and medium-sized enterprises, especially as manifested in the context of the derogation, without losing sight of the need to pursue ever greater protection of the environment, human health and animal welfare.
if, therefore, the two last-mentioned aspects are true as they are and if it is true that the work in the committee on the environment was fruitful and widely shared, it is puzzling that some colleagues, without taking anything away from the subjective right of each, have tabled further amendments for the plenary.
the key aspects of this legislation are health, consumer safety and the protection and respect of the environment.
the amendments tabled on behalf of my group are precisely those which are designed to better ensure these objectives and those which are inspired by the three principles which form the basis of the work of the committee on the environment: the commission has also proposed that the member states should take measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted by the introduction of new technologies.
i also agree with the view that the use of product-specific legislation should be envisaged in order to impose stricter requirements on safety, use and environmental protection than those already provided for by horizontal legislation.
finally, i believe that it is appropriate to refer to a single labelling for this type of everyday products, which enables the consumer to recognise, and the producer to promote, products with a lower impact on the environment.
i think it is very important - and i am more than convinced - that much more needs to be done on environmental issues.
i believe that other countries, which do not yet have legislation in this respect, should adapt as quickly as possible, not only to have and demonstrate greater sensitivity, but to ensure greater attention to environmental needs and, on the other hand, also to provide more information to consumers.
i do not share certain objections raised in the house, such as those of a colleague from the environment group who, as usual, when the proposals do not come from that political party, always sees only the negative aspects - the glass half empty, so to speak - and not the positive ones.
it is necessary to offer ever greater guarantees to consumers, to the users of air transport, just as it is necessary that this sector gradually reach a regulatory and rights-protecting environment in order to guarantee the same opportunity for development and consumer confidence.
i would also like to say that the commission is very much aware of the problems facing the community in the field of the environment, and that it is not our intention - and i believe this is also one of the commission's concerns - that this deadlock on the galileo project should end up undermining a very ambitious project which has called for extraordinary readiness on the part of the whole european industrial system.
- the next item is the report (a5-0145/2003) by mr manders, on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on environmental liability with a view to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage (com (2002) 17 - c5-0088/2002 - 2002/0021 (cod)).
i understand that the agricultural world has welcomed the proposal for a directive on environmental liability, particularly because the commission has opted for a horizontal approach.
in the course of the parliamentary work, other sensitivities have emerged in committee, so that it is very difficult at the moment to accept the idea of farmers being held responsible for environmental damage whose causes are to be sought outside their sphere of influence.
in concrete terms, a farmer could be required to pay compensation for environmental damage caused by an activity for which he has been granted a permit, even though he has complied with all the legal provisions governing that activity.
for this reason and in this spirit we have worked in the legal affairs committee, producing a guideline which avoids serious repercussions on the agricultural world and the rural environment in general.
from seveso to the infamous disasters of the doñana nature park, the sinking of the prestige oil tanker and the most recent, in chronological order, the discovery of the devastating effects on the health of unborn children caused by the environmental degradation of the chemical pole at priolo, all these are cases which require the adoption of a european civil liability regime for environmental damage.
mrs wallström, for example, is well aware that the italian government is about to embark on a revision of the penal code which, among other things, provides for the decriminalisation of environmental offences.
in the light of this objective, we have worked within the committee on the environment to remove certain dangerous derogations which allow for broad and generic means of defence and which, in reality, equate environmental authorizations with a kind of licence to pollute, with the serious risk of rendering the proposed regulatory system ineffective.
we have worked to ensure that the responsible operator, not the taxpayer, bears the costs of environmental remediation.
it is also necessary that all economic activities which may result in damage to the environment be taken into account and covered by the liability regime.
such a system should, as a general rule, provide for objective liability for environmental damage, whether or not it is caused by an activity considered to be dangerous.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a long-awaited one and is a fundamental element of european environmental legislation, provided that the reinforcing amendments we have worked on with the 16 compromise amendments, which i warmly invite to be put to the vote and which restate the substance of what was voted on in the committee on the environment and then deleted by the committee on legal affairs, are accepted.
mr president, a framework regulation on environmental liability is necessary because it is right that the polluter should pay.
the definition of environmental damage plays a central role in the structure of the directive, as does the definition of biodiversity and damage to biodiversity.
prevention must remain the priority objective of activities that may have an impact on the environment.
in conclusion, i would ask my colleagues to support the compromise reached by the committee on legal affairs, which at the same time is a clear and strong signal in favour of protecting the environment but is not a penalty for european industry.
mr president, ladies and gentlemen, the proposal for a directive on liability for environmental damage takes a balanced approach, putting pressure on operators to prevent pollution and to repair damage, and suggests only a few regulatory provisions to achieve these objectives.
the guiding principle of the directive is that the polluter must bear the cost of repairing the environmental damage caused by his action.
we all have a social responsibility to protect the environment, which is by its nature a finite resource.
the reasoned approach of the committee on legal affairs will lead to a directive which will reflect the interests of both industrial development and the environment.
mr president, the commission's communication on environmental agreements is part of the process of simplifying and improving the regulatory framework, which we all want.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment and the environment from the adverse effects of ionising radiation is a step in the right direction.
the environmental agreements are part of this.
while i share the commission's approach of distinguishing between two types of agreement, and with the amendments i have subsequently made, i fully recognise the usefulness of such instruments as a complement to regulatory measures, to be used only in anticipation of environmental improvements of equal or greater scope than those achieved by traditional legislative procedures.
the treaty contains no specific provision on environmental agreements.
the backbone of community environmental policy is and remains the legislative provision, which can only be supplemented by voluntary agreements in certain specific cases.
this intention should be reflected in the commission's annual programming documents, in a broader document such as a white paper or a thematic strategy; thirdly, i proposed that the criteria for evaluating the proper use of environmental agreements be developed.
on this basis, which the committee on the environment has improved and approved, we give the commission the go-ahead to start experimenting with this mix of legislation and voluntary commitments in the areas it has indicated, and in particular with pvc.
you said yourself, mr minister, that a difficult climate would be created for the economy and society.
some are interested in our debates on the environment.
– firstly, as regards drinking water in developing countries, the commission proposed in its communication on water management in developing countries that priority should be given to ensuring a supply to every human being – especially the poorest – of sufficient drinking water of good quality and of adequate means of waste disposal, with the general objective of reducing poverty and improving people's health and quality of life.
this focus on access to safe water and sanitation was further reinforced in the context of the world summit on sustainable development with the launch of the eu water initiative and the signature of the eu-africa strategic partnership on water affairs and sanitation.
the commission is also exploring the opportunities to increase financial support for these objectives, including the possible creation of a specific water fund using development aid as a catalyst to attract other financial resources in response to the countries' prioritisation of water in their poverty reduction and sustainable development strategies.
in order to comprehensively protect water resources, the european union has recently thoroughly restructured its water protection policy by adopting the water framework directive: protection of all waters, rivers, lakes, ground waters and coastal waters, establishing a binding obligation to achieve or maintain good quality for all those waters by 2015 at the latest; ensuring a broad participation of citizens, stake-holders, ngos when developing the necessary protection measures; and underpinning the environmental objective by economic instruments such as economic analysis and water pricing, reflecting cost recovery and thus promoting the wise use of water and the protection of our water resources.
environmental policy in the field of water is complicated and supported by targeted efforts in research policy, where the sixth framework programme is devoting considerable effort and budget to the issue of water resources and their protection, and in regional policy both for the existing member states by instruments such as the structural and cohesion funds and in candidate countries by instruments like ispa and phare.
as regards the situation in the industrialized countries in the european union, i believe it is absolutely necessary to increase controls alongside this new framework directive on water protection, so that all the actors are not only brought together in the involvement of all the decision-makers and in the coordination of environmental policy, research policy and regional policy, as you have said, but also that performance is reviewed accordingly.
horizons are widening, borders are expanding and the arrival of new member states will further encourage the union to strengthen relations with its new neighbours, so that, in my view, in the coming years, the union's ability to guarantee its citizens security, stability and sustainable development cannot be separated from its willingness and ability to intensify and develop cooperation and dialogue with its new neighbours.
our strategy is based on three fundamental ideas: sound macroeconomic policies, structural reforms and sustainability of processes.
as regards strengthening sustainability, it is only worth highlighting the importance of public debt, to which we pay particular attention, because i agree with the honourable member that action is needed on this point, and the idea of offsetting future liabilities with current assets to cope with these difficulties, which seems to us to be a fundamental idea.
we also consider that everything that involves a greater and better use of natural resources is essential, and in this sense any element of sectoral subsidies, which ultimately leads to a less environmentally efficient system, must be considered, just as sustainability and social cohesion must be considered as objectives of economic policy.
we should not underestimate this progress, but we must stress that we must now overcome delays and ambiguities by providing for effective coordination between the economic, employment and environmental policies of the member states through the definition of a real timetable setting intermediate milestones for the achievement, by 2010, of the objectives set in lisbon and gothenburg, in particular as regards public investment in the fields of research, education, lifelong learning and participation in a european network of basic services, starting with transport and telecommunications.
finally, the stages of an economic, social and environmental policy compatible with the lisbon strategy and the flexible management of the stability and growth pact should also be defined for the euro area.
we have systems that are not financially sustainable, that are unfair to younger or future generations, and yet we find no political strength to change.
cross-border regulation through market mechanisms - for example, through outright auctions - in countries which are handicapped by domestic production conditions, undermines the economic advantage for final consumers which is derived from the availability of imported energy.
in view of the cost differentials and congestion resulting from a demand for imported energy which is significantly higher than the supply, the ultimate effect will be to bring the external and internal price closer together.
the nuclear issue is a further complication of this situation, which would create the particular situation of those who are called upon to contribute to the cost of decommissioning other countries when in reality they are not able to benefit, given the market mechanism provided for by the cross-border, from the energy produced by nuclear plants.
this is possible through training of women and the services needed to make the environment favourable to female employment.
the agreement is an important step forward in the fight not only against terrorism but also against financial crime, multinational drug trafficking, money laundering, cybercrime and human trafficking: the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
there's too much waste, too many people interested in receiving money but not deserving of it; if we get our finances in order, we can have less taxes, less taxes, less contributions and more pensions.
the commission is in favour of greater price competitiveness, but also of respect for society's needs, such as sustainability and quality.
we believe that reform is necessary, but in accordance with the objectives set out in the treaties and with the values of quality, environmental protection and, above all, employment, providing, in order to increase employment, for the practical possibility for the member states to link a share of direct aid granted under the first pillar to the employment factor.
if we want, we can also discuss environmental protection, marginal and mountain areas; but if we continue to ask that half the community budget be allocated to protecting and subsidizing the production and export of european agricultural products, then we are discussing something else.
multifunctionality is a long-standing practice in mountain areas where, alongside his primary responsibility, the farmer is asked to control the development of the forests, to regulate water courses, to take care of the lives of animals and to keep the environment in order for the benefit of agriturism and tourism.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
- the next item is the recommendation for second reading (a5-0154/2003), on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the common position adopted by the council with a view to adopting a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on transboundary movements of genetically modified organisms [15546/1/2002 - c5-0081/2003 - 2002/0046 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr sjöstedt).
- the next item is the report (a5-0151/2003) by mr de roo, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive amending directive 1999/32/ec as regards the sulphur content of marine fuels (com (2002) 595 - c5-0558/2002 - 2002/0259 (cod)).
in many countries, there is a lack of social protection and fishermen risk becoming waste workers, superfluous citizens.
respect for the law will make it possible to reconcile environmental sustainability with rights, treaties and agreements, the only guarantee that we will not slip into national policies and that we will continue to pursue a common policy in this area.
the process of globalisation could send sick people and diseases knocking at europe's door, saying that we are inadequate, as was the case with sars: the european union is also taking part in the european year of the environment, which is an opportunity to test the capacity for health coordination and cooperation that the next six months of the italian presidency will have to take on if it is to take the emergency prevention seriously and to tackle the health care gap that individual nations are experiencing and which will move masses of people to countries with excellent care and facilities, which, in turn, could risk paralysis.
mr elbaradei, director-general of the international atomic energy agency, is expected to report to the iaea board of governors on 16 june on his findings on iran's nuclear programme.
the commission should also explain what is happening in the context of what is referred to as a 'constructive energy dialogue' with iran, as this dialogue is being conducted on behalf of the union by the commission.
- mr president, i agree with the council that it is the commission which is implementing the constructive dialogue on energy.
i would therefore like to know whether, in the event of negative conclusions in the report to be presented shortly by the international atomic energy agency, the council will ask the commission to suspend this constructive dialogue on energy.
council the council is fully aware that the restoration of sustainable political and economic stability in iraq will depend to a large extent on the constructive attitude of the neighbouring countries.
the union encourages iran to sign, ratify and fully implement the relevant international instruments, in particular, as i said before, the agreements of the international atomic energy agency, because the iranian nuclear programme is currently causing concern in the international community, and i have already referred to this.
madam president, i do not think we need to add any more energy to the one mrs pack has already given.
thirdly, it is incomprehensible that in the 21st century, after chernobyl, after the majority of the current members of the european union have decided to leave nuclear, there is an explicit reference in the european constitution to the promotion of nuclear energy: this is a mistake that could cost public opinion, a mistake that can be corrected today.
the fight against poverty and the spread of prosperity must be promoted by the abolition of customs barriers, but it cannot ignore the fact that employment in many european industries is threatened by social and environmental dumping rather than by economic competition.
the textile and clothing industry must be protected from unfair competition: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is not damaged.
in a delicate context of dramatic accidents affecting the chemical industry, but above all the people living around these sites, and the environment, the commission has presented to parliament and the council its proposal to amend directive 96/82 of 9 december 1996 laying down rules on the control of the risks of accidents caused by dangerous substances: the commission has proposed a proposal which has the merit of being based on very thorough scientific work and of looking at this delicate issue in a constructive way.
my approach, which i confirm today, is to ensure that accidents never happen again, as far as possible, while ensuring the safety of citizens and workers in these plants and, of course, protecting the environment.
the council reached a common position which took up substantially many of parliament's concerns, but some areas of concern remain, as follows: first, the inclusion of mining and landfills, on which the committee on the environment decided to table the amendments at first reading, namely the inclusion, within the scope of the directive, of all types of preparation or processing of dangerous substances at these sites, not just chemical or thermal processing, as envisaged by the commission, and, secondly, the clarification that we are only talking about active installations.
we are aware that the commission has very recently launched a proposal for a specific directive on the management of waste from mining activities, the details of which will have to be decided with parliament at the appropriate time, but until then there is still a legislative deficit which, in view of the recent accidents which have alarmed public opinion, we cannot tolerate.
finally, the committee on the environment has proposed again the differentiation of potassium nitrate with new thresholds, in order to avoid farmers using a form of potassium nitrate which would not be classified as a fuel falling within the scope of the directive.
i would like to thank all my colleagues on the committee on the environment and the services of the european commission, who have been particularly helpful and cooperative.
the vote will take place at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0171/2003) by mr lisi, on behalf of the committee on fisheries, on a community action plan for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources in the mediterranean within the framework of the common fisheries policy (com (2002) 535 - c5-0623/2002 - 2002/2281 (ini)).
i therefore welcome the commission's efforts to impose the specific character of the mediterranean and the sustainability of fisheries as new criteria for the future action plan.
the involvement of fishermen's associations must also mean promoting the experience gained at local level for responsible fisheries management, experience that demonstrates the effectiveness of selective gear, the effectiveness of alternative measures to fishing effort management, such as temporary closure; rigid and automatic transposition of cfp management mechanisms, such as minimum sizes or tacs, risks frustrating the efforts of fishermen and may prove counterproductive; in addition, the early introduction of inadequate technical measures risks rendering sterile the multilateral dialogue which the commission intends to engage with third countries in the mediterranean area for the sustainable management of the whole basin.
finally, mr president, there is the reasoning on the environment proposed by the commission: the commission's proposal is not a good one, but it is a good one.
in a region where fishing is strictly coastal, the key to sustainable sustainability is in any case the integrated management of coastal areas, on which the commission does not place enough emphasis.
mr president, the community action plan for fisheries in the mediterranean, presented by the commission, is an important first step towards the sustainable management of the sector.
the commission rightly believes that one of the essential elements to be borne in mind in the context of a sustainable approach to fishing in the mediterranean basin is the specific nature of the mediterranean itself.
respect for this principle also strengthens qualitative competition, which would otherwise run the risk of being crushed in an exclusively economic and technological environment, which is also the sole property of the undertaking and therefore not always favourable to the contractor.
it is important to bear in mind that we are dealing with a subject which has a strong and exclusive economic value and as such cannot and should not contain rules and principles which are the subject of specific legislation, such as specific social and environmental requirements.
environmental and social matters have specifically defined and definable routes and are therefore made mandatory in other forms and in other areas.
the environment - the great disease of our time - is also the subject of extensive attention.
in conclusion, mr president, the content of the rules under discussion, because of their economic importance and the employment, social, environmental and economic implications they entail, can be described without a shadow of a doubt as fundamental to the organization of modern society.
we have made progress on taxation, closed energy dossiers, implemented and expanded important programmes such as erasmus and e-learning: there is therefore a sharing for the work.
i hope i am wrong if i say that the benchmarking techniques will not prevent pollution, and that there is no mention of the polluter pays principle, and that is the complete negation of the 0.5 to 0.9 eligibility rates which have been the subject of much discussion.
it is not true that of the 14 projects decided upon in essen, only three have been implemented because of lack of money: if investors are not found, it is also because for many of these projects the utility, socioeconomic viability and - we add - environmental sustainability were not ensured.
we would like to discuss not pharaonic and perhaps unrealizable projects, but investments that promote innovation, renewable energy and the regeneration of the territory, for which the participation and acceptance of the citizens living in that territory is considered a value and not an annoying obstacle.
mr president, your european programme says in black and white that we must open a new era and that we must fight against environmental bureaucracies.
we will oppose this export attempt, which is particularly risky in times of enlargement, because it is strictly functional to the policy of 'all infrastructure' and derives from an outdated concept of the environment as a commodity to be used and sold.
italy is second only to spain in terms of environmental law violations.
your government, mr president, has changed the waste laws to make controls more difficult, even though 11 million tonnes of waste are lost in italy every year and the turnover of the eco-mafia is estimated at around 2.5 billion euro; has so relaxed the rules on environmental impact assessment that it has become a purely formal procedure; has given its blessing to the indiscriminate hunting culture in the parks by the regions; this year, it has allocated eur 56 million for protected areas, which is less than the cost of building a 1 km tunnel motorway.
the commission is preparing the indiscriminate decriminalisation of environmental offences, and this is all without regard to the community legal framework.
president prodi, in a field where the union has real powers and international responsibilities, we fear that the cumbersome infringement procedure is no longer sufficient and that, by maintaining an attitude of too much tolerance and attention to formal detail rather than substance, there is a serious risk of contributing to the hollowing out of community environmental legislation.
just as with gmos, it would be unwise to underestimate the negative reaction of public opinion in many european countries, including italy, to the explicit promotion of such a costly and dangerous energy source, which exists today in the constitution.
welcomes enhanced cooperation, including in the fight against organised crime, terrorism and fundamentalism; the commission's proposal is to be accompanied by a report on the implementation of the community's policy on the environment.
europe cannot ignore that the mobility required to develop the economy further also starts from two postulates: cultural training, which enables young people from all nations to have a basis of mutual knowledge and therefore national governments will have to face the problem of greater and better information on the activities of the european institutions and the housing problem, which cannot fall on individuals and private individuals alone but to which the institutions must also contribute; the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very good one, and i would like to thank the rapporteur for the work he has done.
in the fight against the new poverty which is increasingly emerging in the countries of the union, we believe that a stronger energy policy for europe is vital, based on the search for new sources and the better use of those known, going hand in hand with the safeguarding of those environmental values without which the very life of the planet would be endangered.
we will also add training, research and the environment.
large infrastructure is not a keynesian policy; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected, and i would like to ask the commissioner to take this opportunity to explain why he has not taken this step.
it is also necessary to bring the issue of a sustainable pension system to the union level.
the same applies to the objective of making our welfare systems sustainable through reforms, not to take away but to give more, equitably, even to our children, guarantees and security.
what does sugar have to do with environmental or social clauses?
as regards the non-commercial concerns, particularly those mentioned by mr van den berg, yes, they are on the table, including agricultural matters: animal welfare, the environment, food security.
well, in relation to all this the common position is probably affected by a climate, after 9/11, which is much more attentive to the reasons of national sovereignty and national defence.
i admire their tenacity and their rhetorical ability to present the unimaginable, that is to say, to present a battle which i can also understand in its motivations, which is a totally national battle, which has nothing european about it, but a battle for the defence of the environment, for the defence of europe.
the problem of living in a healthy and compatible environment is one faced by all citizens of europe, not just austrian citizens.
i too regret that the level of emissions is not acceptable, but i do not see why it should be good for austrian citizens, while the problem is completely irrelevant for other citizens.
it must be clear that the regime is over, that the derogations are over, that the rule of law is restored, and then we will look all over the alpine area, here and there in the alps, for those warnings that will take us to 2006 by reducing emissions, because that is what we all want; but no one is under the illusion that we can go beyond a few variations.
the european parliament condemned, once again, the violation of the basic right of free movement of goods, but also indicated reasonable ways to ensure transit and to protect the environment to the extent appropriate.
it is important to act quickly, however, because we must avoid another type of damage, in addition to the ecological one: the economic one, which goes against the interests of all road hauliers, many of whom have since declared bankruptcy.
of course, this choice cannot become the excuse for abandoning the rigorousness of public accounts and must be supported by a complete sustainability of fiscal policy, so well implemented in the united kingdom.
i hope that his successor, who is also coming in a climate and a situation with procedures which we would like to see more transparent and clear, will also be able to keep track of the need for structural reforms, the need to protect the stability pact: these are the ways to protect future generations of europeans, citizens and taxpayers.
i have a few questions about one thing: i find it difficult to distinguish between drought and fire, especially in environmental and economic outcomes.
the drought of recent months is yet another demonstration of how the undeniable climate change on the planet is having an undeniable effect on the environment, and in particular on our agriculture.
regional development factors such as the rate of industrialisation, the level of poverty and social exclusion, the level of unemployment, the research and development potential, training capacity, the sustainability of development, the development of environmental protection must be taken into account in addition to the currently only criterion of gross domestic product per capita achieved.
i would like to say that the commission is very pleased that the council has taken the initiative of adopting the proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster.
an example comes just in these days: the protection of the environment is a key element in the protection of the environment.
we must have the courage, commissioner, to intervene with direct support towards which the disciplines on state aid and on competition rules must also be made more flexible; the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environment is protected.
but there's something more: we are in the process of adopting a proposal for a directive on the opening up of the market in port services, for example, which is intended to regulate the opportunities for competition linked to this development, but strictly safeguarding the requirements of safety, environmental protection and social protection, and therefore also, in this case, the essential requirements for the training and professional qualifications of crews, requirements which must be the basis of authorization procedures and also of self-production or self-help measures.
there is indeed a problem of articulation between respect for fundamental rights and the rules of international trade, just as there is between the rules of international trade and international environmental agreements or between the rules of trade and public health concerns.
the negotiations, the programme of which was adopted in doha, include negotiations on the link between environmental and trade rules.
sometimes we see it in person it takes little to give such a possibility: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to improve the quality of life.
it is a pity that all these issues, these values, are being called into question, are being degraded by strong ideological and political pollution, whereas they deserve greater respect.
another issue is to establish a code of conduct with ethical, social and environmental rules for european companies making investments.
it is absolutely essential to erase the waste of the various pension systems of the states of europe; the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
that means we have to go and see where the waste is, where the inefficiencies are, where we need to change.
report (a5-0299/2003) by mr gil-robles gil-delgado and mr tsatsos, on behalf of the committee on constitutional affairs, on the draft treaty establishing a constitution for europe and the opinion of the european parliament on the convening of the intergovernmental conference (igc) [11047/2003 - c5-0340/2003 - 2003/0902 (cns))
mr president, the european parliament has just voted on the andersson report on adequate and sustainable pensions.
so, as to your argument that we should get rid of these two transparency issues because the developing countries don't want them, i would like to know if that also applies to the environment and to social clauses, which are issues that the developing countries don't want either.
the speech given by the presidency is more about the functioning of the internal market than about achieving the sustainability objectives, and the same goes for the speeches of colleagues: everyone talked about transportation and no one talked about sustainability.
the tens review is said to contribute to the development of a quality-efficient and sustainable network, but this is not automatic and requires precise policy choices.
the current discussion on the tens review does not talk about integrating environmental concerns and there is no sign of a willingness to do a pre-emptive environmental assessment.
the van miert group as it itself acknowledged should have made an assessment of the impact of the projects on the environment, biodiversity, volumes, transport and climate: but he didn't.
i must say that this debate is not adding anything new to what is already known, because, if it is true that there is a general problem concerning sustainable development, the debate at this stage is in fact this: we are on the eve of integration, partial but important, we are now twenty-five countries within the european union, so we are equipping the territory so that relations between the member states can be intensified.
i would say to mrs frassoni at once that i too am concerned that sustainability should be at the very core and, so to speak, one of the screening criteria for what we want to achieve.
as my socialist colleague mr goebbels rightly said - i do not know whether you have heard, mr president - our citizens are already paying a very high price in terms of quality of life and quality of the environment, precisely because of the dysfunctions, the traffic jams, the traffic congestion and the lack of fluid mobility that characterize our continent.
it is clear that approving each of these 18 projects without any strategic assessment of their environmental impact, their viability or their actual safety is merely a notarial function.
there is a very dubious profitability, there are very strong safety concerns and there is especially a devastating environmental impact, if we build a pylon taller than the empire state building in a suburb of the city of messina.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0284/2003), on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the common position of the council with a view to the adoption of a directive of the european parliament and of the council on the reuse of public sector documents (c5-0251/2003 - 2002/0123 (cod)) (rapporteur: mr van velzen).
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0269/2003), on behalf of the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a decision of the european parliament and of the council adopting a multiannual programme (2003-2005) on the follow-up to the eeurope 2005 action plan, the dissemination of good practice and the improvement of network and information security (modinis) [7948/1/2003 - c5-0252/2003 - 2002/0187 (cod) ] (rapporteur: mrs read).
- the next item is the report (a5-0292/2003) by mr lisi, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council directive on the reduction of emissions of volatile organic compounds due to the use of organic solvents in decorative paints and varnishes and in products for automotive retouching, and amending directive 1999/13/ec (com (2002) 750 - c5-0632/2002 - 2002/0301 (cod)).
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, as the commissioner has already said, the proposal we are discussing today is a proposal for the reduction of organic solvents in paints and it is a proposal that is part of a broader environmental strategy, namely the attempt to meet national emission ceilings, in this case for voc emissions.
it is precisely because we firmly believe in this objective - which, as the commissioner said, was brought so dramatically to our attention this summer - that we know that it is in our interest and in the interest of future generations to ensure effective environmental protection.
the reasoning is very simple: there is a threshold below which the quality of these products available on the market is bound to fall inexorably, and if the quality - let us not forget that these are most often paints which are used as protective films, especially against atmospheric agents - falls below an acceptable threshold, we would have the opposite effect to what we want.
in the medium and long term, there would be a proliferation of applications for these paints and therefore, inevitably, an increase in emissions.
the commission has again made it clear this evening that the objective of the directive is environmental protection, without prejudice to or alteration of existing measures at national or community level to protect the health of workers, as is also stated in recital 14. some colleagues have tabled amendments in this direction in the plenary, but after the commission's clarifications, i would reiterate that we should reject this enlargement proposal by voting against the amendments, in particular amendments nos 2, 10, 16, 49, 54, 80 and 82. as regards amendment no 84, which helps us to define and clarify the aim of the directive, i am in favour of it.
the percentages which the commission has proposed and which parliament, in the committee on the environment, has amended.
- the next item is the oral question to the commission (b5-0275/2003), by mrs jackson, on the progress report on the european union's participation in the implementation plan of the world summit on sustainable development.
– mr president, i listened to mrs corbey earlier today and she said that the concept of sustainable development offers a kind of magic, a kind of understanding, and requires a holistic approach.
our other problem is that we know each other, perhaps, too well in our discussions on sustainable development.
this is exactly what you have been saying in all contexts, from trade to agriculture, energy or transport.
we met with minister buttiglione and undersecretaries caldoro and nucara, with the vice-president of the public chamber, mr fiori, but above all with the four presidents of the authority who, in a sense, replace a national mediator, namely professor rasi for privacy, professor ranci for energy, professor tesauro for competition and professor cheli for communication.
europe's ambitions must be supported by public resources, as is the case throughout the world, and by a more active organisation of common policies, from agriculture to telecommunications, from the environment to transport.
to avoid misunderstandings, the report refers to the un resolution on preventing an arms race in space and to the convention itself, which aims to promote peace and contribute to the security and sustainable development of the earth.
accurate monitoring of greenhouse gas emissions is vital to give us an overview of how effective eu policies are in reducing greenhouse gas emissions and what more needs to be done to meet our kyoto targets.
reaching agreement at first reading stage will enable this decision to enter into force quickly and be implemented by the member states and would be a further concrete demonstration of the community's commitment to addressing the problems of climate change.
mr president, since 1992, the international community, or at least a large part of it, has been reacting and fighting against one of the greatest environmental and economic challenges facing humanity: climate change.
we know that it is the most important issue in the world in the field of environmental sustainability and that it is having disastrous effects not only on the climate but also on ecosystems and living species.
the union accepted the challenge in may 2002 by ratifying the kyoto protocol, thus demonstrating that the fight against climate change is one of its strategic priorities.
member states therefore remain responsible for reporting annual emissions data.
the proposal for a decision we are about to vote on therefore provides the framework for the community and its member states to ensure that their obligations in the field of reporting and accounting for emissions are met by improving the quality and accuracy of the information provided on policies and measures adopted, as well as on emissions and removals of all greenhouse gases, without forgetting the methodological aspects.
moreover, in the context of the convention and the kyoto protocol, two provisions are essential and necessary to fulfil the commitments made: first, the implementation and periodic updating of national programmes to limit or reduce gas emissions; second, transparent monitoring of actual and projected emissions.
the vote tomorrow will oblige the member states to determine and report to the commission, by 15 january each year, the actual and provisional gas emissions data which will enable progress to be assessed and annual reports to be prepared by the community in accordance with its international obligations.
the limited amendments made by the committee on the environment to the legislative proposal were aimed at making the mechanism even more binding and efficient, especially in the light of the latest discouraging data that greenhouse gas emissions in the european union are expected to increase for the second year in a row.
as mrs wallström has already said, in the informal negotiations with the council and the commission, following the opinion of the committee on the environment, it was possible to reach an agreement on these amendments, which incorporated the substance of our amendments, including the most significant ones from a political point of view, such as those concerning the necessarily and compulsorily supplementary nature of the use of flexible mechanisms compared with the internal action plans that each state must set and implement in order to achieve its greenhouse gas reduction targets.
the effects of this inadequacy of the railway system are felt on motorway traffic, with serious congestion and pollution problems in an area with a strong tourist vocation.
since then, the reality has not changed and the increase in traffic volumes makes everything much more critical, at the limit of sustainability, due to the continuous delays that accumulate damaging also the adjacent french trunk.
i then stopped a man who was passing by, who happened to be mr sacconi, the rapporteur for this report, and he said to me: you know, the greenhouse effect, despite what we've done in the past, it's increased, it's increased, it's increased.
the whole earth has become a greenhouse full of flowers, as one uses where one wants to grow flowers, and in this way all men have also become better.
other i voted in favour of this report, but i have a doubt, mr president: wouldn't it be better if we let the greenhouse effect grow and let things go on as nature is planning, even with the help of humans?
(applause) i would like to thank
president, it may be true that six months is too short a time to make a real difference, but it is even shorter if you have a tendency to waste time on meetings of heads of state, which are useless and costly replicas of discussions already held by foreign ministers.
we are still adamant that what is needed today to really revive ecologically and socially sustainable growth in europe is a kind of marshall plan - another marshall plan - for useful infrastructure, but also for renewable energy, land regeneration, research and innovation.
we should like to tell president prodi at once that we like the idea very much, especially if this new list is based on the quality of the work and its social and environmental sustainability, which is unfortunately not what commissioner de palacio did with the van miert list.
it was to protect health and the environment, not to promote competitiveness or trade, that the decision was taken in 1998 to draw up a proposal on this subject.
we are mobilized to continue along this line and ready to fight, together with environmental associations and consumers, in respect of all those workers in europe and the world who continue to get sick and die.
the presidency shall consider only requests for amendment which have a comprehensible and sustainable basis for their reasons.
i would like to ask you two political questions on the eve of the last two months of your presidency: the european parliament has already expressed its views on the commission's proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the protection of the environment against pollution.
at the same time, in europe we are experiencing a situation in which inflation levels are substantially under control; we have an energy price, i would say, fairly stable and the financial market conditions are not negative.
we fear that the politically correct concept of sustainable growth is concealed by the concept of continuous growth.
in practice and in the existing instruments, the environmental dimension continues to remain a kind of cinderella.
we are not convinced by the commission's persistent unwillingness to launch an energy efficiency plan that stops looking at nuclear.
a few months ago, mr president, we proposed to you that you launch a climate stability pact, but unfortunately we never received a reply.
we have not succeeded in doing so, but we have obtained a directive which refers to subsidiarity, to what the states could have done anyway, and which sets out reference criteria for authorization which are fully in line with social, safety and environmental standards.
- the next item is the report (a5-0381/2003) by mr mussa, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a council recommendation on cancer screening (com (2003) 230 - c5-0322/2003 - 2003/0093 (cns)).
in the report of the committee on environment, health and consumer protection, 33 amendments are proposed.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0353/2003) by mr paasilinna, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council establishing a european agency for network and information security (com (2003) 63 - c5-0058/2003 - 2003/0032 (cod)).
the commission can accept all the compromise amendments as voted on 17 november 2003 in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0391/2003) by mr blokland, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a european parliament and council regulation on shipments of waste (com (2003) 379 - c5-0365/2003 - 2003/0139 (cod)).
certain amendments to article 13 on objections to waste for recovery pursue national solutions rather than solutions at community level, and these amendments are particularly aimed at addressing the issues of so-called standard dumping in relation to waste destined for recovery by allowing a number of further justifications for objecting to shipments destined for recovery.
as we all know, the problem relates to the fact that waste for recovery travels almost freely within the single market and, at the same time, waste treatment that respects higher standards is often more costly than conventional waste treatment.
i agree with the rapporteur that we can allow competition on costs but not on environmental standards.
however, we are legally obliged through the treaty to safeguard the environment while also respecting the rules of the internal market.
amendments 13, 14, 34 and 41 propose banning shipments of waste for interim treatment operations and define recovery and disposal operations as only covering final treatment and not interim operations.
the commission believes that an outright ban would both lack environmental justification and would conflict with the treaty.
further, the commission believes that it is essential that the horizontal definitions of recovery and disposal operations as established in the waste framework directive are adhered to within this regulation.
in fact, such criteria could be among several deemed relevant for the distinction between recovery and disposal in general, which is a horizontal issue which should be settled in the context of the waste framework directive rather than in the specific context of this regulation.
another element regarding annex v, namely that of giving priority to the eu hazardous list above the basel non-hazardous list in relation to the so-called basel ban on exports of hazardous waste from oecd to non-oecd countries, can be supported – amendments 69 and 70. let me just make a brief comment on the question of the double legal basis.
as the explanatory memorandum establishes, the primary objective of the regulation is protection of the environment.
that main objective has been maintained in the new proposal and the legal basis is in article 175 of the ec treaty: environment.
however, as regards the provisions of titles iv, v and vi on exports out of, imports into and transit through the community to and from third countries, it can be argued that these are rules which pursue an overall and general environmental objective, as well as rules on international trade.
environmental rules, therefore, also apply to the trade regime and are linked to it.
amendment 95 proposes to allow tacit consent in relation to shipments of hazardous waste for recovery.
firstly, we have to apply the precautionary approach to shipments of hazardous waste within the community and, secondly, we have to respect the basel convention's requirements in this respect.
written consent for shipments of hazardous waste must be applied.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m.
the agenda calls for the report (a5-0354/2003) by mrs gutiérrez-cortines, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission communication 'towards a thematic strategy for soil protection' (com (2002) 179 - c5-0328/2002 - 2002/2172 (cos)).
the dramatic incidents that have affected the chemical industry in recent years, but especially the people living around these sites and the surrounding environment, have been drawing the attention of the european union.
places such as bay a mare, aznacollar, but especially toulouse and enschede have become synonymous with human and environmental tragedies that we cannot leave without a clear response.
at the first reading i explained, together with other colleagues, the reasons for the need for this strong signal from the european parliament and we took a joint approach, which we confirm today, that the accidents which have occurred so far should hopefully not happen again, with a guarantee of protection for the citizens and workers of these plants and strong protection of the surrounding environment.
the compromise we have reached is aimed at ensuring complementarity between the directive in question and the directive on waste from mining activities, which is currently undergoing its first reading in this parliament.
the scope of the seveso directive is thus extended to include installations for the disposal of waste used in connection with the processing of minerals.
it is in this new and promising context that the italian presidency intends to take full advantage of the important responsibility it has been entrusted with, and is preparing to devote to the naples conference all the commitment it is capable of and all the energy that the event warrants.
on the economic front, naples will be the occasion for converging and evaluating the results of the euro-mediterranean trade conference in palermo last july and those of the first euro-mediterranean agriculture ministerial in venice on 27 november, as well as the conference on investment, infrastructure and energy scheduled for the eve of barcelona vi on 1 and 2 december.
the euro-mediterranean region is one of the regions in the world most likely to be affected by the risks of the 21st century, whether terrorism, trafficking in human beings, drugs, globalisation or environmental threats.
mr blokland, mr president, this report calls for the free movement of waste in europe - urban waste, industrial waste - and i voted in favour of this report.
i would like to see the pensioners of europe considered as deserving of at least the same freedom of movement as that granted to urban and industrial waste.
i would therefore prefer that the directive in question should deal not only with the movement of waste but also with the movement of retired citizens.
mr blokland's report, mr president, deals with the circulation of waste in europe, urban and extra-urban waste.
i would like to see the same freedom of movement for european citizens as that which this directive provides for municipal and industrial waste.
it is always encouraging to see the enthusiasm and energy members of this house devote to that cause.
in these conditions, the schizophrenia of the union's institutions, starting with the commission, in the management of the two missions that the union has given itself in the field of economic, social and environmental policy, persists.
it proposes that community rules be adapted to situations characterised by major environmental and demographic diversity and to the different union policies, from transport policy to regional and territorial policies and so on.
the directive is complex and the impact, positive or negative, that it can have on the environment and the whole production system depends on the wisdom of our balance.
i would simply like to add to the proposals of the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, together with mrs niebler - who has done a very good job as a shadow rapporteur, as she has shown in her speech this evening - an amendment which i particularly welcome and which is aimed at clarifying the definition of 'operator', which, as it is now formulated, does not exclude the involvement of banks and other financial institutions in the context of liability for environmental damage caused by financial entities.
i think that people are very interested in the construction of major projects, in not having to queue up on the motorways, in being able to travel by fast train, in paying particular attention to employment and in opposing countries which operate in the free market without respecting the rules on the protection of the environment and workers.
we have just heard that, on the sidelines of the energy council, commissioner de palacio announced that the kyoto protocol is dead.
both amendments were subsequently approved by the council, as is apparent from the communication to the committee on the environment of 8 december 2003. finally, this directive establishes a harmonised legislative framework for all the countries of the european union, facilitating the free movement of traditional medicinal herbs within the community.
the report also calls for the establishment of a european network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
i would like to stress once again that i understand that the authorities and the parliamentarians, and quite possibly also the austrian citizens - since this is a matter which affects austria as a whole with great concern - would have wished for even greater protection, but i believe that this transitional arrangement does, in spite of everything, maintain a privileged position - let us be clear - in the interests of protecting the environment in austria.
i think that this is an element of european solidarity which, although it may seem to you to be insufficient, i insist that it is a very important step, because we are still maintaining the points system, which, in addition to suppressing the traffic of the most polluting trucks, limits the traffic of trucks with an intermediate level of pollution, so that only the most modern and most efficient trucks can circulate freely in austria.
overall, a compromise is reached, which is excellent and the best compromise possible because it ensures a balance between the right to mobility and respect for the environment, because it has a gradual approach, because it punishes the so-called non-virtuous behaviour of those who do not renew the car fleet and rewards those who have this virtuous behaviour, because it enhances the specificity and the delicacy of an area.
it is a balance between two needs, which i would like to recall: the commission's proposal is to ensure that the free movement of goods and the respect for the treaties are respected, and that the protection of the environment and the health of people is a matter of equal importance to this parliament and to austria.
this means the search for sustainable development, which, upstream, must be identified in intermodality, the development of railway tunnels and the preference for rail transport over truck transport.
the maturity of this parliament has also been to avoid the schematization that certain excesses in the debate would have suggested: the european commission has launched a new initiative to promote the use of energy in transport.
the conciliation conclusions are to be welcomed as an act of rebalancing a situation in which austria applies a braking device to heavy vehicles, which, on the other hand, move freely everywhere, even in the alpine areas of france and italy, without any environmental toll.
yet the problems are the same as those in austria and the environmental damage is the same.
we are all in favour of protecting our mountains and our countries from excessive numbers of heavy vehicles, but the problem is not solved by shifting the source of pollution elsewhere.
and it is not enough to console ourselves with the fact that the environmental damage is paid for by very heavy tolls, which have the effect of bringing transport companies, especially the smaller and weaker ones, to their knees.