(applause) i would like to thank
- mr president, as chairman of the ad hoc delegation for north korea, i am obviously shocked by the attitude of north korea, which, after having subscribed to the sunshine policy inspired by president kim dae jung and supported by the european union, has reversed its international commitments by withdrawing from the nuclear non-proliferation treaty and expelling inspectors from the international atomic energy agency.
i fully agree with the proposals made by the council and the commission to continue humanitarian aid and to provide the technical assistance needed to operate the coal mines to supply the country with the energy it so sorely lacks.
it is also the only strategy to ensure that the recovery is strong and that these gains are sustainable for future generations.
progress has been made in the fields of energy, financial services, the single sky and research.
the civil aviation, tourism and other economic sectors will suffer from the climate of insecurity and the speculative explosion in the prices of certain raw materials, particularly oil.
but that the supposed economic giant would settle for the lowest common denominator in its economic, social and environmental conclusions is simply hopeless.
there will be an action plan on entrepreneurship, another on simplifying the regulatory environment.
for the past 12 years, in several parts of the world, it has been demonstrated that the use of pesticides can be reduced through genetic improvements and there is no indication that gmos are not a sustainable alternative in agriculture.
while confirming the strategies, the economic policy guidelines stress the need for macroeconomic policies to maintain stability and support growth in order to decisively achieve economic reforms and to ensure that growth is sustainable in the face of economic, environmental and social transformations.
as regards macroeconomic policies, the current uncertain economic environment makes it essential that policies inspire confidence.
finally, as regards sustainability, the guidelines address the long-term sustainability of public finances, taking into account, in particular, the problem of an ageing population.
pension reform should aim to improve financial sustainability, promote longer working lives and remove incentives for early retirement, to enable more flexible career development and employment patterns.
in terms of environmental sustainability, the guidelines maintain that economic growth should not come at the expense of the environment.
in this respect, member states should reduce subsidies and tax exemptions and other incentives that have a negative impact on the environment.
finally, the contribution of economic policies to social sustainability is also addressed.
we want more eu in the fields of environmental policy, social policy, foreign policy... the iraq conflict, however, is a tragic reflection of the eu's fragmentation.
the real challenge for eu politicians, but also for civil society, is to organise the necessary majorities in the convention for a sustainable eu.
however, the environment and legal affairs committees have turned this directive into a manifesto mixing alleged ethical considerations with a legitimate attack on life science research, while trampling on the principle of subsidiarity.
we should see this directive as a contribution to a coherent and holistic energy policy in europe.
this means that we are talking about more environmental protection, more security of supply and also about coherence in the internal energy market.
we must do the same for combined heat and power as we have done for renewable energy.
this definition is climate zone independent.
annex iii defines the energy efficiency of combined heat and power plants.
we are about to enter the final stage of the legislative process on the package of measures for the internal energy market.
i think it is important, i repeat, to bear in mind that this package is emblematic of the lisbon process, the aim of which, let us remember, is to achieve a more competitive europe, with an economy which will place the european union at the forefront of economic activity at international level by the year 2010, in a society based on knowledge, with full employment and also with respect for the environment.
the european parliament has always strongly supported the commission in its efforts to achieve a competitive and integrated internal energy market, which also means going beyond national markets.
firstly, as i said during the debate on the first reading of these texts, the commission fully shares parliament's concern that the funds earmarked for decommissioning and waste management should be used for the purposes for which they were set up.
on 30 january 2003, the commission adopted two proposals for directives, specifically on the establishment of a community strategy and standards on the safety of nuclear power stations and on waste treatment.
in particular, mr president, and as requested by the conference of presidents, i would like to read the statement that the commission will make, a statement which concerns the commission as a whole and which has been discussed in the college of commissioners, and which reads, and i read it verbatim: 'the commission notes the importance of ensuring that the funds set aside for decommissioning and waste management activities relating to the objectives of the euratom treaty are managed in a transparent manner and used only for such activities.
in this context, and within the limits of its responsibilities under the euratom treaty, the commission intends to publish an annual report on the use of the decommissioning and waste management funds.
i believe that without this fundamental contribution we would not be on the verge of creating the most integrated internal energy market in the world, a market which also implies putting into practice the community model, i.e.
liberalisation together with regulation, something which was previously said to be contradictory, but which we are showing in europe that it can be combined: the advantages of the market with the maintenance of a cohesive society, without exclusions, which not only takes care of and looks after the weakest but also thinks about the future, about future generations and, in particular, about protecting our environment.
those who are sceptical about the process of liberalisation will have to admit that this second directive on electricity implies a much better regulatory environment than was the case with the first directive from 1996. what have we achieved?
the objectives of the market today give equal status to competition, security of supply and the environment.
i am particularly happy that we have obliged the suppliers to give full information on the mix of electricity and on the environmental consequences of their production.
it will also allow society to continue the debate on energy services.
we were also able to strengthen the status of decentralised energy producers.
this will mean that the practice in certain countries, where you pay as much to transport energy for 200 metres from a co-generation unit to a neighbour as you pay to transport energy for over 500 kilometres will change and this will give small generators a real chance.
political action aims to meet the economic, social, environmental and cultural needs of our citizens.
the convention has been far too concerned with institutional architecture, which will be of no use if we do not give ourselves the political means to achieve sustainable development, economic growth ensuring full employment.
- mr president, commissioner, in the context of the votes on the directive at first reading, the commission promised parliament that it would table two related directives: one on cogeneration, for which the commission has kept its promises, and another on energy efficiency services, which is very important in regulating the market in this respect.
i therefore regret that i cannot fully endorse the cunha report, because the solution proposed, consisting of partial decoupling, would jeopardise the future of multifunctional agriculture in the disadvantaged region of luxembourg, with the economic, social and environmental consequences that are well known.
-(de) i fully agree with the present reports on the common organisation of the market in milk products, because the quota system, which regulates production and guarantees a certain price level, is maintained until 2014, which provides the guarantees necessary for the sustainability of family farms and offers security in terms of planning.
would you agree with me that we will not create innovation by imposing standards on ecological or social issues?
what we want, when we speak about introducing ecological criteria or fair-trade criteria, is to create a market for innovation in ecology, fair trade and social issues.
if we are serious about sustainability we have to use this.
let me quote the french academy of sciences: 'gmo varieties are being rejected by europe without any health problems for consumers or damage to the environment.
i would like to thank the three rapporteurs, mrs klaß, mrs ayuso gonzález and mr olsson, and the members of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, for their hard work on these legislative dossiers.
it will not surprise you, commissioner, if i tell you that i would naturally have preferred to see the three fine proposals adopted by the committee on the environment - albeit by a small majority, but at least - come to fruition.
president berlusconi has just invited us to reflect on the sustainability of european social protection.
my first concern is the potential for reducing emissions.
in the specific case of the steel industry, this reference could have prevented the rights corresponding to blast furnace gas which is sent to electricity companies to be converted into energy for consumption by the steel plants from being granted, under national allocation plans, to electricity companies which might otherwise replace these energy sources with others such as natural gas.
paradoxically, steel companies would have to torch the blast furnace gases, thus increasing co2 emissions, not to mention the emission rights they would have to buy from the electricity companies.
- commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this summer should be the last warning for us politicians to finally act on climate change.
first of all, we need to establish a stability pact on climate change.
we cannot tolerate governments in spain, portugal and ireland making a fool of themselves about climate change and the european union being ridiculed internationally because these governments are not taking their responsibilities.
the statistics from the european environment agency clearly show how far behind these governments are.
we need to invest much more in decentralised energy and as greens we thank you, mr barnier, for declaring your willingness to review the criteria for structural and regional funds.
finally, europe is completely behind when it comes to energy management.
we have been waiting for a year for two directives on energy management.
we have written to mr prodi to ask him to step up and coordinate his team better in the race against the clock to prevent climate change.
if, because of its specific situation, luxembourg was granted a temporary derogation, this cannot justify the advancement of the second phase of the application of the floor rates from 2010 to 2008. the idea behind the rapporteur's amendment was - i am convinced of this - that a rise in fuel prices which would dissuade consumers from using their private vehicles would be good for the environment.
environmental considerations are often at the heart of infrastructure decisions.
sustainable development cannot be achieved without economic and social development as a whole.
the lack of transport infrastructure and the constant congestion of traffic are also not in the interest of sustainable development.
and these investments, as i have just said, are also in the interest of sustainable mobility.
borrowing to invest, to create the conditions for future sustainable growth should be a common objective for all true europeans.
since article 174 of the treaty on european union, on environmental policy, enshrines the precautionary principle as a founding principle, i believe that this principle should be respected when there are serious risks at the same time as there are uncertainties.
in the meantime, as i said, measures must be taken to prevent the disappearance of beekeepers with all the harmful ecological consequences that would follow.
that is to say, we need less ideology, but on the contrary, concrete policies, investment in infrastructure, financial compensation for dumping aimed at rail transport, following the example of renewable energy sources, whose losses we are compensating because other sources of energy do not pay their environmental costs, and thirdly, an end to social dumping.
- (nl) many members of this parliament believe that the eu should be less concerned about health protection at work or environmental pollution.
it is remarkable that the group of the european liberal, democratic and reformist party is proposing the rejection of the eldr rapporteur's report on this subject and, at the same time, of course, the directive to protect the quality of the environment and human health against chemical and microbiological contamination.
the greens thank mrs zrihen for having reminded them that europe was built on three pillars: the environment, the social and the economic.
we see that many of our conservative friends, some of them liberals, but unfortunately also some socialists, try to forget, or forget, gothenburg and the need to integrate the environment.
in this sense, we as greens want a better targeted research policy and we are very much looking forward to the environment dg's document on environmental technologies, which we are promised for december, because one of the answers to the global markets of the future is environmental technologies.
- (de) although this report contains many positive ideas, i have some difficulties with the excessively long passages on environmental taxes.
the 'polluter pays' principle is generally recognised and has even been incorporated into the treaty establishing the european community, but the introduction of an environmental tax on fuel is highly controversial and needs to be addressed at national level, as close as possible to the citizen, in order to allow for an adequate public debate.
let me remind you of the debates on excise duties on alcoholic beverages, the plans to impose vat on postal services, the proposal to abolish lower vat rates, the introduction - as part of the energy package - of a minimum tax on fuels, etc.
if introduced, the environmental tax proposed would have a catastrophic effect on the image of the european union, especially as several member states have announced referendums on the adoption of the european constitution.
why do we keep imposing ever higher taxes on our companies when the economic environment has been marked by stagnation and unemployment for some years?
road pavement, accident costs and environmental damage through noise and air pollution and climate damage are covered.
so this is politics that is half-hearted, and the result of this politics is what we see when we look at climate statistics, accident statistics and things like that.
i think that we in the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, but also in the other committee, would do well to bring the commission back to reality and to introduce technology neutrality.
(es) mr president, the commission has received broad support for the approaches in the green paper 'towards a european strategy for energy security' in relation to maintaining access to community coal reserves and maintaining a basic level of production for this purpose.
in addition, an important new feature of the new council regulation is that the contribution of indigenous coal to the objective of energy security must be made in a sustainable development framework.
the commission therefore considers that both open-air and underground farms can respect the principles of sustainable development insofar as they comply with community legislation.