especially when i read paragraph 133. if you tell the public that a climate of impunity is developing in austria, belgium, france, italy, portugal, sweden and the united kingdom, they will laugh their heads off!
we also believe that a revitalization of the railway, for environmental reasons and for all other reasons, is absolutely necessary.
we would also have no adequate health care for the vast majority of the population, no more education, no more public transport, no more environmental protection, no more pensions for the elderly.
the greater openness to each other shows that there are very attractive prospects for cooperation in the economic, ecological and social fields.
the commission will be able to take account of the need to ensure that the community's energy policy is not distorted by the effects of the crisis.
the delegation to the russian duma recently went to the north and we were able to learn about the major problems with nuclear waste.
it is a very good thing, also for the citizens who live there, that solutions are also being found for waste water, particularly at petersburg and kaliningrad.
i believe that aquaculture makes a positive contribution to the sustainability of natural fish stocks.
it is therefore appropriate to devote greater attention now to information on the consequences, to the protection of the marine environment and to the welfare of animals threatened by this industry.
this has to do with building water systems, good environmental management and participation of local farmers.
- (nl) we in europe thought that tuberculosis had disappeared, and we were totally unprepared for the emergence of this new disease, aids, and for the spread of malaria to our countries as a result of global warming.
- (nl) oil is indispensable to countries which waste a lot of energy, especially america.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the quality of the environment and to promote the development of the environment in the community.
subsidies for non-trade-distorting matters such as the environment, animal welfare and rural development should possibly remain, but i hope that the commission also recognises that a viable european agriculture needs sufficient leeway to regulate its market.
as for us: the commission will be proposing a new approach to the problem of the environment.
concerns about environmental pollution and public health are understandable.
only 10% of the tonne-kilometres on austrian territory are in transit through austria, while no requirements are imposed on national transport to address the harmful nox emissions.
the ecopunt system, linked to the alps with the aim of protecting the local environment, as opposed to the unjust local austrian exceptional position and the right of free movement of goods, makes me not in favour of the current system.
i also welcome the move to look no longer at the austrian alps as a whole but rather at those areas where we are actually dealing with very fragile environmental conditions.
it could create additional traffic in those countries and the european environmental gain is too limited because it has to be reversed.
the user pays and the polluter pays but each pays for his own pollution and use and not for that of a competing mode of transport.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this area, including the creation of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the introduction of a european transport policy, the european transport policy, the european transport policy, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the environment, the future, the future, the future, etc.
the opinion leaders preferred not to see that growing traffic flows lead to increasing space consumption, air pollution, noise pollution and road accidents.
we now know that it is important to reduce unnecessary transport and to opt for modes of transport that take up less space and pollute the environment less.
the commission has tried to distinguish at least between the car and the airplane, which are increasingly polluting the environment, and the environmentally friendly transport by rail and water.
this involves shifting existing transport flows and channelling any further growth in a way that will reasonably allow people and the environment to survive in an increasingly densely populated area.
all kinds of liberalization proposals can have negative effects on people and their environment.
in short, there are social effects, environmental and health effects and safety effects, and globalisation plays a role in all of them.
what we are seeking, of course, for environmental reasons, among other reasons, but also for a number of other reasons, is basically the decoupling of economic growth from transport and related problems.
there are a number of things to consider: low-emission and low-energy cars and so on... as regards modal shift, i have just heard mrs peijs say that the railways should not be given that incentive by the european union.
i think it is necessary, but i think it is absolutely necessary that the emissions problem of rail in relation to other modes be seriously addressed.
- sustainability is an important core value of the eu's transport policy.
we believe that the environment is the most important aspect.
the tension between growing transport flows and increasing environmental pressures can only be resolved by rigorous measures.
even if they have to develop their own infrastructure policy, the eu must have a strong incentive to give sustainable modes (water, rail, pipeline) a fair chance, to avoid the predicament the eu is now in.
- mr president, i can say, mr president, ladies and gentlemen, that we are talking about the spring summit, lisbon, strategy, economic, social and environmental innovation.
i also said yesterday that little progress has been made in the transport sector, as well as in energy policy, agricultural policy and public health.
who's talking about energy tax reforms?
the streamlining of economic and social policies is of great importance, but this means that we must draw consequences both for the stability and growth pact and for the orientation of the broad economic guidelines towards social and environmental policies.
it has become clear in recent years that a country like france simply has no message from the agreements made in 2000. for example, the monopoly of the largest energy supplier is still maintained and this subsidised energy is exported to the member states which have opened their borders.
- sustainable development and the environment are as important as economic and social performance.
the spring summit should therefore devote equal attention to this and not hours to economics, minutes to social policy and only seconds to environmental policy.
the european commission should produce a sustainability report every year and the joint resolution calls on the european commission to do so.
environmental, social and economic aspects are equally important.
as an advocate of the environment and national self-determination, i cannot accept the present situation, despite all the respect i have for the efforts made by mr caveri to find a solution which is more or less identical to that applied to other areas of the alps.
drug addiction is a complex problem with major social consequences for the user and for his or her environment, with health risks and with ongoing criminality.
the eu experience also shows that liberalisation of services, both in the energy and telecommunications sectors and in the financial services sector, if accompanied by well-established rules and guarantees for citizens, in principle leads to a better functioning market for services, with better quality, a wider range and higher prices.
the fact that we are now taking the environment into account is, of course, a very good thing.
sustainability is not just something of the west, sustainability is something for the whole world.
firstly, the question of the exact relationship between the payment of premiums in agriculture and the environmental directives that europe has.
in addition, it is important that policy, especially in the areas of food safety, animal welfare development and environmental instruments in agriculture, be more closely linked to the development of financial policy instruments.
the commission's 2004 policy strategy puts the emphasis on the accession of 10 new member states, stability and sustainable growth.
the commission's approach to the theme of 'sustainable growth and solidarity' shows that the union has a great deal to answer for.
the union must: (a) strengthening economic and social cohesion; (b) addressing the unequal levels of development of the different regions; (c) supporting sustainable economic and social development; and (d) promoting balanced and sustainable development.
in addition, conditions should be imposed by member states and port authorities, in particular in the field of safety and environmental protection.
the port or port state which sets the highest standards of safety, environment, quality of work and working conditions loses out to competition, while the worst performing port wins out.
however, in practice this is rarely the case in the areas of infrastructure, transport, environment, urban development, rural development, fisheries, enterprise policy, information society, research, technological development, training and lifelong learning.
- (nl) the protection of consumer rights, like the protection of health, the environment and safety at the workplace, must not stop at national frontiers.
the european union must also demand that the regime put an end to the climate of impunity.
in conclusion, mr president, i therefore wholeheartedly welcome the initiative of commissioner monti to investigate the illegal state aid to the french energy group electricité de france.
a lot of hours and energy have been invested in it.
fourthly: as health problems, like environmental problems, know no borders, health care, like the environment, must become a european competence.
we also want to try to improve the road environment through training, because if the drivers know how it works, they can influence it.
moreover, the tolerant climate of the netherlands - where many people have no idea that they are committing a crime by making these ecstasy pills - has resulted in a flourishing of the industry.
commissioner, i have one supplementary question about the minimum ecological flow of the ebro.
it is essential because it concerns the issue of the correct minimum ecological level of flow for the ebro in order to save its ecological functions, which are so important.
the inclusion of slovakia means that the eu is importing the environmental problems of the nuclear power stations and the danube dam.
in the committee on the environment, the commission representative supported my amendment no 99 on cells.
in other countries, particularly the scandinavian countries, the phosphates are eventually removed in the waste water treatment system.
if we want to assess detergents for trade and use, we must look in particular at their environmental and health effects.
we must be careful in this provision to ensure that the volume of sales and consumption throughout the territory of the european union is kept at such a low level that the environment and health are not threatened.
mr president, we need cleaning products, but we also need a source of pollution.
of course, it must be for industrial use and the joint sales must not be a threat to the environment or to public health.
in addition, the environmental benefit must be demonstrated.
exceptions can only be made if they are in the interests of the environment and, of course, public health.
we have here a report on combined heat and power which is of enormous importance for a sustainable energy policy in europe.
mr president, it has rightly been pointed out that the emphasis has become much more on energy saving.
it is essential that that harmonised reference value for determining primary energy savings from cogeneration be established as soon as possible, and within two years.
the conflict of competence between the committee on the environment and the committee on legal affairs has been the starting point of political sentiment in particular.
i have finally opted for an approach which is balanced on the basis of all the amendments submitted and which does not specifically opt for industry and does not specifically opt for the environment.
i have tried to find a balance between the practicability and the practicability of a new piece of legislation - because that is what we are talking about - which will allow it to eventually become a piece of workable legislation in the future which will lead to a preventive approach to the environment and ultimately protect the environment.
i also think it is important to create a level playing field because i think environmental legislation is also part of our economy.
i have said, for example, that the legal basis should be article 175. each member state develops its own system and the commission, after five years, moves on to a harmonised legislative proposal for environmental protection across europe, based on the best examples in the market.
that is how we will level the playing field, prevent environmental dumping and avoid the eventual creation of 25 different legal systems which will certainly not promote the internal market or the protection of the environment.
i think it is better that a number of countries which are not going that far should be raised to a higher level, which is ultimately better for the environment, in absolute terms.
secondly, if we use article 95, it is also easier for the european commission, as the watchdog of the treaty, to bring parties who do not comply with the rules before the european court of justice and thus also to ensure that the environment actually benefits from these regulations.
(applause from the left)
mr president, the environment is obviously off.
it turns out that it's hard to get an understanding of environmental issues.
i believe that strong environmental liability legislation will prevent damage to the environment and will help to repair damage.
in the netherlands, a limited form of environmental liability based on this principle has existed for some time.
it would be bold of us as a legislative body to take that risk now to avoid the risk of environmental damage.
president, commissioner, mr davies has spoken of the holy grail of the environment.
i must say that i too am pleased that a level playing field is now being created for all those involved in environmental damage.
one is the question of nuclear energy and unfinished business.
finally, mr president, i would like to return to nuclear energy.
nuclear energy is always seen as a cheap form of energy, but if all costs were to be taken into account, including those related to environmental damage, then the question is whether wind energy and other forms of energy which are environmentally friendly could not fully withstand competition.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the environmental liability legislation is not applied in the member states.
it is necessary for repairing and addressing environmental damage, but it is also necessary as a doorstop that can prevent future damage.
- mr president, environmental liability should become one of the crown jewels of european environmental legislation, but so far it has been a mourning game.
if the industry has an environmental permit, it's never liable.
accidents such as the prestige and the erika, but also nuclear accidents and pollution caused by genetically modified food, must be traced back to the causes.
i would ask you, mr president, to give the other group a little more room, to give it confidence, and i am in favour of a good environmental policy.
but to extend this extra now is really unacceptable, it is simply old-fashioned grain in the european greenhouse and we should not do that.
mr president, speaking of waste, i am reminded of the city of strasbourg.
parliament also called for the establishment of a european union-wide network of national authorities responsible for the protection of the environment.
the unep, the united nations environment agency, has rightly, in my view, called for an investigation as soon as possible into the environmental effects, the environmental consequences of the use of cluster bombs and depleted uranium, for example.
the european union can and must make a humanitarian contribution, a very important one indeed: the commission has also taken the initiative of drawing up a report on the implementation of the european year of the environment.
- (nl) businesses do not only produce goods and services, but also pollution and accidents.
the costs of repairing environmental damage are borne by the victims or the government, while the profits from the economic activity that caused the damage are returned to the company.
the areas mentioned in the birds directive and natura 2000. marine pollution and nuclear damage are not taken into account, and there is no liability if one acted on the basis of a licence or scientific knowledge at the time.
it is impossible to give an example of national environmental protection, since article 95 for the single market comes before environmental protection, which is placed in article 175. only the left-wing amendments, taken together, can make this proposal an acceptable minimum.
the environment, public order, security, crime prevention, the quality of public administration and the rule of law are also areas where a common approach is needed.
he promises us streamlining which means that there should probably be a better focus on the russian complaints too, that there will be more efficiency, more guaranteed funding - that is of course an important point anyway - more assistance in project management and suchlike and that a new northern dimension environmental programme could probably serve as an example in this respect.
they must therefore be, and are, at the forefront of policies aimed at sustainability and long-term solutions.
the stockholm summit decided some years ago to seek to integrate environmental and social policy into the economic policy guidelines.
the aim is to achieve a sustainable and social market economy in the european union.
the economic outlook is currently uncertain and this has implications for the establishment of a sustainable and social market economy.
secondly, i would like to stress the need to integrate environmental policy into economic policy.
i think that the environmental aspects of economic policy are not being sufficiently addressed.
the integration of economic and social policies is clearly more obvious than the integration of environmental policy into economic policy.
is the reason for this perhaps that environmental policy costs money in the first place and does not lead to any directly measurable profits?
i therefore advocate that the economic policy guidelines should include clear and concrete environmental objectives in addition to references to the importance of the environment.
i am thinking of the inclusion of targets for energy consumption and co2 emission reductions.
this pollution is too much of a burden for the negotiations.
mr president, we in the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy have had a very hard time with the council.
the manufacturing or distribution companies, cannot have a hand in the greenhouse at the expense of the maintenance of the networks and thus de facto frustrate a level playing field in europe.
this is waste management.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i too am in favour of linking the payment of premiums to environmental conditions, but what are those environmental conditions?
if every member state were to comply with the nitrate directive, agricultural policy would be very simple, but 13 out of the 15 member states do not comply with those environmental conditions.
this will remove 95% of sulphur and 80% of carcinogenic particles, and also reduce nox emissions by 10 to 20%.
only after that trial is successful do we want to open this path, including an emissions trading system so that it becomes possible for companies to equip one after another of their ships with such a new system instead of all at once.
it's cheaper to have a carbon trading system like this.
many climate scientists say that these particles also have a negative impact on the climate.
parliament must not only take responsibility for promoting the phasing out of these tankers, but also take responsibility for waste management, for the proper disposal and scrapping of ships.
it is best to entrust it to local or regional public monopolies, provided they are subject to democratic control by an elected parliamentary body that looks after the interests of the environment and consumers.
i support the rapporteur, mr turmes, in his attempt to counter the misinformation about the green electricity or the diversion of money for the dismantling of nuclear energy, but this is not enough.
security is only sustainable when it is based on international cooperation.
hormones, foreign proteins, water injections, pollution and harmful bacteria, it all sounds familiar to your ears.
in northern europe, on the other hand, the majority of smallholders have already disappeared and public opinion views agricultural funds as a form of bureaucracy, financial waste and environmental degradation that must be stopped as soon as possible.
the reform was presented as a reward for those working on food quality and safety, to improve environmental and consumer protection.
farmers can only achieve livelihood security if we have the courage to break with the logic of free trade and reward them for landscape management, environmental protection and food security.
military solutions have never proved sustainable in atjeh.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97) for a regulation amending regulation (eec) no 1408/71 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons and their families moving within the community (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97).
furthermore, it seeks to incorporate the recommendations of two studies, one dealing with carcinogens and the other with substances which are dangerous to the aquatic environment.
i am pleased to tell you that a proposal for a directive on the management of mining waste was adopted by the commission on 2 june 2003. the measures in the proposal complement those outlined in the seveso ii directive and include the establishment of a major accident prevention policy and a safety management system.
these measures will apply to those waste management facilities that present an accident risk but will not be covered by the revised seveso ii directive.
the seveso ii directive should not be transformed into either mining legislation or waste legislation.
therefore the commission cannot agree to deleting the words ‘chemical and thermal’ as proposed in amendments nos 1 and 2. we also reject amendment no 12 which proposes making a reference to council directive 91/689/eec on hazardous waste, and amendment no 13, which seems to suggest that there are gaps in the coverage of mining sites through the two proposals.
now, promoting sustainable economic development is high on our list of priorities.
a municipality should have the right to consider environmental criteria when awarding a public contract.
local authorities should have the possibility to purchase sustainable products and services.
the government, with a market share of 16% of gdp, should be the advocate for a policy geared to sustainable products and services.
if we let this go, it would send the wrong signal to private industry, at a time when it is beginning to understand the need for sustainable products and services.
the package of amendments which i have co-signed on behalf of the edd makes the directive acceptable from an ecological point of view and respects the principle of subsidiarity.
we are thus placing the responsibility for a sustainable policy directly on the public authorities, who are the ones who take the concrete decisions as close as possible to the citizen.
at that time, there was a covenant with the business community and the municipality on sustainable construction.
at that time we discovered that in groningen there was a model for european procurement which could meet a number of criteria, for example with regard to equal working conditions and social rights, but also the employment criteria of the regional labour market and environmental criteria.
we are talking about corporate social responsibility to ensure that financial, social and environmental objectives are integrated into a strategic policy.
i am not at all happy with the rules laid down in the environment council and in the agriculture council, but also in our own group.
if the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment are adopted, the european union's legislation will be the strictest in the world.
we are still waiting for effective measures for coexistence in the field and also for the environmental liability system that was promised to us by the european commission two years ago during the negotiations on directive 2001/18/ec.
support for all the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment is a necessary step forward.
we had the opportunity to have intensive discussions with both the packaging industry, the packagers and environmental groups.
for a long time it was taken for granted that packaging was an environmental problem, a small and necessary problem, but a problem nonetheless.
packaging then protects the product and prevents waste.
sustainable development is no longer possible without packaging.
however, a positive approach to packaging is only credible if every effort is made to avoid environmental burdens.
in the debates on the first reading i have already pointed out that recycling is not an end in itself and that there are limits to the environmental return of recycling.
our discussion of the environmental return at first reading and the economic cost at second reading almost inevitably leads to the conclusion that the optimum rate could vary considerably from country to country.
waste and recycling have become global markets.
there is no objection to the export of sorted waste, but we must be sure that it is indeed sorted and that it is indeed being processed in a proper way in third world countries.
we have done this before in the directive on electronic waste and in the directive on scrapped cars.
the environment committee calls for better implementation of the essential requirements and asks producers to choose the most environmentally friendly alternative.
different materials such as paper, metal, glass and plastic must compete on the basis of environmental quality.
this will provide an incentive for continuous environmental innovation.
sustainable development is such a matter that concerns us all.
this approach is well suited to the sixth environment action programme.
we must prevent the improper use of recycling and therefore also put the environmental result first.
the starting point of this legislation is to limit the harmful environmental effects of packaging.
in the netherlands, the objectives are largely achieved by working with a voluntary agreement between the ministry of the environment and the business community.
for example, i wholeheartedly support the idea that exports of packaging waste can only count towards the achievement of the objectives if the exporter can prove that the recovery and/or recycling has taken place in conditions equivalent to those laid down in community legislation.
does the commissioner not think that this way of achieving the objective of reducing waste, which i am in favour of, by imposing ecological taxes or a deposit, is distorting the market?
climate change has major economic and social consequences.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution.
this amendment had very broad support in the committee on the environment.
this amendment was important for workers in energy-intensive sectors.
public support for a forward-looking climate policy is badly needed, as it is a long way to go to achieve the kyoto targets.
we do want a ceiling that will encourage member states to reduce co2 emissions slowly but surely.
mr president, what we almost seemed to have forgotten in the discussions was that we were all there when the kyoto agreements were made and that this directive on emissions trading was now just a good way of ensuring that the reduction tasks could be achieved in a very efficient way.
so how do you serve the environment by using an economic instrument?
at the same time, we had to realise that a european approach was also very difficult because there were such great differences in starting positions, not only because the environment is implemented somewhat better in one member state than in another, but also because the member states' tasks were so different.
the problem is that then, to make these chickens look a little bit more like chickens, they are added protein, protein from slaughterhouse waste, from chicken meat supplemented with pork protein and with beef egg protein.
secondly, future payments to farmers will not only be based on historical actions, but also on environment, method, cross-compliance: for what, hear what.
all fine, but those environmental indicators aren't very accurate.
the dutch employers' association vno-ncw even asked not to extend the scope of the procurement directives by "a whole series of social and ecological criteria".
the rapporteur has already himself dealt with a number of points in the field of social and environmental protection.
these are large-scale, sustainable markets and tasks which for a century or more have been considered as the main tasks of government itself.
the point now is that we do not want to see words but actions and that the right climate for negotiations is created.
on the other hand, as the resolution also endorses, these negotiations are above all a test of the wto's capacity to correct the major imbalances in the trading system, to share the benefits of trade more fairly and to support sustainable development.
will the negotiations prove that the trading system serves our citizens' desire for ecological and social progress rather than subjugating it?
in the agricultural modalities, this means securing the right of wto members to set food standards and promote public goods such as rural development, environmental protection and animal welfare.
this also means making clear progress on the doha trade and environment agenda.
we also have a duty to enable poor countries to meet standards of working conditions, animal welfare and the environment, so that they can import their products into europe.
they should be able to assume that aviation is as safe as possible and that the negative impact on the environment is as small as possible by allowing crews to fly to their destination via the most direct route.
there is no disagreement about the objective: reducing emissions from heavy goods vehicles in the alpine region.
it's not just emissions that are at play.
the commission has already presented some facts which show that the problem of the differences between emissions on the one hand and the facts and proposals concerning the limitation of the euro standards for lorries on the other hand is rather problematic.
the problem cannot be solved on a voluntary basis; this is particularly true for the fitting of cow-traps on energy-consuming jeeps up to 3,5 tonnes.
i have long been pushing for legislation in the committee on regional policy, transport and tourism and in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, against the prevailing trend at the time.
finally, we should like to thank mr vermeer for the energy and commitment he has devoted to this matter.
in such an uncertain environment, it is therefore not surprising that the ecb has to make a major effort to meet the objective of stability.
it is clear that these monopolies should have been subject to democratic control to avoid abuse of power, waste and favoritism.
mr olsson has also indicated in his report on rural policy how important this can be, for example to support the shift to other sources of income such as agro-tourism, care farms, new energy sources, organic farming, local services and cultural events.
the environment dg has indeed not given the green light for the eur 80 million grant requested by the spanish government for the júcar-vinalopó project.
so standards for both working conditions and animal welfare and the environment.
for the children and grandchildren of migrants, the language of the environment will be the first language spoken.
it would be a shame if the higher european standards were to lead to potential environmental damage because we do not want to face this problem.
the pollution that would result would be many times greater than the pollution that the prestige has caused on our own coasts.
i have even concrete indications that environmental and economic considerations run parallel here.
the commission proposal on criminal sanctions for environmental offences, for which i am the rapporteur, is closely linked to the sterckx report.
madam president, it is a good initiative on the part of the european commission to come forward with proposals for the security of energy supplies.
it goes without saying that when there are major interests involved in the supply of energy, the proposals must also be well thought out.
madam president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, in june of this year we voted on the so-called energy package, which includes the directive on an internal market for natural gas.
in my view, we succeeded in adopting legislation in june which not only allows for further liberalisation of the energy market but also ensures the security of energy supply.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial resources are used to finance the development of the community's energy sector.
the last point on the sound use of funds concerns the fact that projects financed by eu funds often fail to comply with european environmental legislation.
that's a waste of money.
the funds for the kedo project have been frozen and we are now doing absolutely nothing to supply the energy there.
is it possible to use the money or part of the money previously earmarked for nuclear energy to subsidize alternative energy sources in north korea?
mr president, after more than six years of negotiation the council has finally reached a compromise on energy taxation.
however, i am very happy to see that parliament's committees responsible for the analysis of the text – the committee on economic and monetary affairs and the committee on industry, external trade, research and energy – have supported the compromise.
this future directive remains a positive step, both for the internal market and for sustainable development policies.
we ask the russians to make an effort to combat climate change and environmental pollution.
a clean environment also has a price in russia, despite promises of financial support and cooperation.
the need to draw attention to this is all the more difficult because we are already so unwilling to pay a price for a better environment here in the european union.
the council's draft directive on energy taxation is a striking example of the lack of unanimity in efforts to improve the environment.
for more than ten years, there has been talk and negotiation about an energy tax.
my first comment is that the council still lacks the vision and courage to shift the tax burden effectively from labour to environmental pollution.
this will help to promote employment and to put a real price on environmental pollution.
first of all, i would like to call for biofuels to be exempted from energy taxation.
secondly, i would like to stress the importance of taking account of the proposal on emissions trading.
although i consider energy taxation to be a valuable instrument in terms of substance, i cannot agree with the view on the unanimity rule.
the idea of an energy tax to supplement the agreements made on emissions trading has already been raised on several occasions.
nevertheless, it is expected that a community tourism policy would provide additional support for the sustainable development of the sector.
- (nl) like many national constitutions, the draft constitution is charmingly rhetorical on several points, such as a high level of environmental protection, some vaguely social points and the rejection of the death penalty and discrimination.
in our neoliberal europe, public utility companies in the public transport, postal, energy and telecommunications sectors are no longer considered to be entrusted with essential community tasks, but are handed over to operators who seek to make a profit.
we therefore wonder whether the eu ambassadors and our own ambassadors could not have made more efforts in the period before the conference, and even whether the council and the ministers present had used their maximum energy on that point.
the pse group and the european parliament's resolution reply: the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft regulation on the protection of the environment.
it is also regrettable that the developing countries were not prepared to negotiate on this, because they are the ones who have benefited from a good investment climate, reduced import duties and transparent regulations.
the execution directive is an important environmental directive.
solvents are one of the main causes of ozone formation and this has serious consequences.
the study carried out by the commission shows that environmental gains could be further increased by setting somewhat more ambitious limit values.
the european union has been advocating sustainable development for many years.
the starting point of sustainable development is to reconcile economic, environmental and social aspects.
since johannesburg, the whole world has agreed on the need for sustainable development and the need to put it into practice.
unfortunately, the best opportunity to combine economic, social and environmental objectives is now the first, and the social objective is not out of the question.
mr president, the volatile organic compounds in solvents which cause ozone pollution are released particularly when cars are sprayed, but also when houses are painted on the outside of their wooden walls.
the european commission is rightly proposing a revision of the existing directive to reduce this air pollution.
they believe that the environment would benefit from the use of more aggressive materials, which would reduce the need for repainting.
they also claim that the european commission and its officials have always promised that this directive would only deal with emissions into the environment and not with the protection of the safety and health of people at work.
we are talking about substances that are not only dangerous for the environment but also for human health.
mr president, i would like to conclude by saying that this dossier is further proof of the close link between the environment and public health and that it is therefore wise that these subjects should be dealt with in the same committee in the next term.
a number of the amendments adopted by parliament's committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy are motivated by concern for the protection of the health of workers.
that is amendment no 11. this makes sense from an environmental point of view, as it is the part of the vocs that evaporates into the atmosphere we want to reduce.
firstly, because organic compounds with a boiling point above 250°c have a very low volatility: it takes several days for them to dry out and they have a very limited ozone formation potential.
in other words, they are of little environmental concern.
the commission is aware that intense lobbying activities have been going on, both from industry and from environmental organisations, with a view to either softening or tightening the limit values proposed by the commission.
let me start by addressing the last issue raised in mrs jackson's question: the commission's role in making sure that sustainable development becomes a major and regular aspect of forthcoming spring councils.
first, by adding an external dimension to the göteborg strategy, the european council conclusions mean that the european union's sustainable development strategy is the main vehicle for the implementation of the johannesburg commitments.
second, the commission is also undertaking an overall review of the sustainable development strategy to be ready by the time the new commission takes up office.
let me now turn to the first part of the oral question, reporting specifically on the water and energy initiatives.
the european union energy initiative for poverty eradication and sustainable development addresses access to affordable and sustainable energy services.
to take it forward in africa the commission will sponsor a high-level energy event to be held in nairobi on 20 and 21 november 2003. as in the case of water, ownership and awareness in recipient countries are essential to make progress.
still on the subject of energy, the eu also launched in johannesburg the renewable energy coalition.
we intend to work intensively in the coming months to ensure the coalition is fully consolidated in time for the 2004 world renewable energy conference in germany.
on the final part of the oral question dealing with strengthened governance for sustainable development, this is clearly an essential requirement for progress in the world summit implementation.
in this regard, the european council has stressed the need to reinforce unep and to consider its institutional upgrading by creating a un environment agency.
the results of the global ministerial environment forum in february 2003 should help to achieve this objective.
the results were very positive on chemicals, with a decision on the strategic approach to international chemicals management, setting up a process that should culminate in an intergovernmental conference in 2006. unep was also asked to take an active role in the pursuit of the ten-year framework of programmes on sustainable consumption and production, agreed in johannesburg.
the global ministerial environment forum will meet again in korea in march 2004. water, sanitation and human settlements – the three items on the csd agenda for 2004 and 2005 – will be the main focus of discussions.
nevertheless, some of the unfinished business on international environmental governance will also need to be addressed, including matters such as unep's funding, the reinforcement of its scientific basis and its role in enforcing international environmental agreements.
my own assessment is that work is in progress to implement our commitments across the economic, social and environmental dimensions of sustainable development, both internally and externally, but events, and most recently the failure of the trade talks in cancún, show the scale of the challenge we still face.
in march 2003 the european council identified a set of priorities for implementing the sustainable development strategy and the johannesburg outcomes.
however, further efforts are needed in these and other areas, such as energy and transport.
on sustainable consumption and production, the eu has been playing a leading role by promoting a broad mix of policies and tools, such as integrated pollution prevention and control, the eco-management and audit scheme and eco-labelling, as well as sectoral instruments in key areas such as energy or agriculture.
it was entitled: 'the choice of multilateralism' and in it we stated that the eu should adopt a determined front-runner approach to the negotiation and implementation of important initiatives in the fields of sustainable development, poverty reduction and international security.
in the field of the environment, breakthroughs were made in rio.
the convention on climate change and the convention on the protection of biological diversity were signed.
the johannesburg summit was more about poverty problems than environmental problems.
fortunately, for the first time, a partial breakthrough has been achieved in the energy sector.
a coalition of the willing is now going to try to promote new, renewable energy.
the economic, social and environmental conditions must advance simultaneously.
we also need more help with clean water, sanitation and renewable energy for the more than one billion people on this planet who are currently deprived of it.
new environmental agreements are also needed, particularly for sustainable forest management.
mr president, when we discussed the outcome of the johannesburg summit last year in this house, i concluded my contribution by criticising the optimism about the outcome of the un summit on sustainable development.
i also said at that time that the implementation of the objectives should contribute to the desired sustainable development.
i see sustainable development as a translation of the mandate given to mankind by god to cultivate and preserve the earth.
the balance between social, economic and environmental components is of great importance.
unfortunately, this balance was not so well represented at the johannesburg summit, because too little emphasis was placed on the social and environmental components.
i am also very interested to see what the european commission has done in the past year to achieve a 'trade policy which must not be disruptive to the development of poor countries and to the environment'.
we must be careful not to want too much at once or to do things that are only marginally related to sustainable development.
president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, sustainable development is a wonderful concept.
it is a powerful idea to combine economic, environmental and social aspects.
sustainable development has evolved over time.
at first, it was mainly environmental, with a socioeconomic aspect.
now, at international conferences, the environment seems to be given less priority and poverty reduction is given priority.
if rio was an environmental conference, johannesburg was about everything: the commission has already taken a number of initiatives in this field.
that makes it difficult to implement sustainable development.
to make sustainable development a little more concrete, i would suggest two things to you.
i think it is right to test all our legislation and all our policies against sustainable development.
take climate policy, for example.
we are thinking mainly of the environmental aspects and the economic costs.
a johannesburg check would immediately reveal this and also open our eyes to the environmental aspects of medicines.
in the case of packaging, parliament has done its best to involve exports to third world countries through a prevention policy and to encourage sustainable production and consumption.
the food law is concerned with environmental and social aspects.
by showing that sustainable development can be put into practice, we bring about innovation, and this innovation can also bring about new creativity.
sustainable development must not only have hands and feet, but also a face.
this leaves room for a faster, simpler european approach in areas such as environment and social policy.
the lisbon agenda assumes that more coherent and coherent policies are needed to promote greater competitiveness, sustainable growth, employment and social cohesion.
since 1976, that is, before the european parliament was directly elected for the first time, thinking about the environment, but also about matters such as subsidiarity, has of course changed fundamentally.
we must therefore also ask ourselves in this directive: the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the quality of bathing water is not affected by pollution.
i questioned this in the first debate in the committee on the environment, and i have to say that the committee on the environment has answered all these questions 'yes' and said: yes, it is necessary to maintain and improve such a directive.
but the legal basis of the directive is the environment.
the system of smiley faces, for example, which was proposed in the committee on the environment, seems to me to be excellent in this respect.
in conclusion, i should like to say that i welcome the compromise reached by the committee on the environment.
the environment committee has made sensible compromises.
the warmer climate will increase swimming and other forms of water recreation.
the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment are acceptable, except amendment no 19. a few hundred scottish sheep create a huge gap in the legislation.
the old directive took account of pollution levels that we fortunately no longer know.
the share of emissions from non-mobile machinery has increased relatively, due to the success of cleaning engines used in lorries.
the committee on transport supports the rapporteur's proposals and in principle we are in favour of including in this report environmental standards for diesel engines, diesel engines used in rail transport with a power of more than 560 kw.
classical air pollution will soon be history in europe, if we at least introduce the new engines.
freight trains and inland waterways use much less energy, simply because the resistance is much lower.
this means that the environmental benefits of freight trains and inland waterways are back, and we in the green group are very pleased about that.
i would also like to thank mrs de sarnez for the energy she has put into the successful completion of her report.
the importance of this development of railways for the environment and safety is obvious.
these results demonstrate the high quality and commitment of local authorities in their coastal management, particularly in relation to basic sanitation, water supply and pollution.
we hope that the initiatives of parliament, which have been reaffirmed in this budget and which were also mentioned in previous resolutions, namely the pilot projects or preparatory actions concerning the environmental indicators, the animal diseases fund, the development of better vaccines and the development of a quality policy for agricultural products, will also be reflected in the commission's note of amendments which will be published shortly.
the chapter on internal policies gives an additional increase to the council for measures to be taken in connection with the still increasing pollution of the sea.
in the last five years, 529 breaches of european environmental legislation have been detected.
president, the rapporteur, mrs gill, has just given her full support to my amendment for a pair of bicycles so that members of parliament can travel short distances in a cheap and sustainable way.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a fire.
finally, mr goodwill, who was surprised that we are giving additional tasks to the european environment agency in copenhagen without making new resources available for this.
i would urge the commissioner to continue as firmly as he has in this particular case, because i think it is important that spain understands that it must comply with european legislation in all respects, not only in terms of environmental impact assessment but also in terms of public procurement, particularly in this particular case.
if they had read that, they would have seen that there was already a separate category for the energy-reduced products.
we asked questions on this matter on 1 july in the debate on packaging waste and, mr bolkestein, commissioner wallström replied on your behalf that an inquiry would be launched.
it is extremely important that there are governments which are progressive on the environment and which are not afraid to take controversial measures.
it was proposed that deposit schemes should only be allowed if there was a demonstrable benefit to the environment.
there had to be a good environmental reason for infringements of the internal market.
i think that would be too fair if it served an environmental purpose, but that is not the case here either.
the court of justice has caused a stir by excluding waste incineration from recovery under the packaging directive.
throw-away cans are bad for the environment.
reusable plastic bottles have a two to three times lower environmental impact.
the commission has therefore proposed a system of stationary charges which is environmentally sound, with a view to reducing the amount of waste generated.
the commission has thus once again demonstrated that it considers the internal market to be more important than the environment.
the irony of history is that they all stem from a 1991 law introduced by the christian-democratic minister for the environment, klaus töpfer.
mr president, in order to commit iran to the purely civilian use of nuclear energy internationally, close cooperation with russia is indispensable.
- the next item is the report (a4-0173/97) by mr de gucht, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection, on the proposal from the commission to the council (com (97) 0173 - c4-0173/97) for a directive amending directive 76/769/eec on the approximation of the laws of the member states relating to cosmetic products (rapporteur: mr de gucht) in the future, for example, cell transplantation will play an increasingly important role in mainstream medicine.
the following remarks should are deleted: "part of the appropriation may be allocated to the european academy of the urban environment in berlin, with due regard for the provisions of the financial regulation".
"eur 150 000 is earmarked for a grant to the european academy of the urban environment in berlin" and the figures are increased by the same amount and therefore by eur 150 000.
by allowing cross-border coordination, a system of sustainable fisheries will gain a broader base.
the sector has for many years had a system of sustainable fishing, which has been praised by many.
it is not possible that a too liberal approach on the part of the commission is frustrating the social position of fishermen and the environmental situation in the north sea.
and in this respect, the instrument of the use of days at sea, in addition to limiting the capacity of the fleet, can indeed be a very good instrument for achieving a very effective approach, and also for sustainable fishing.
a year ago, at the world summit on sustainable development in johannesburg (september 2002), dutch and european authorities hypocritically signed declarations saying that overfishing should be stopped by 2010, when in reality they were shifting the problems of overfishing in european waters to developing countries.
other objectives, such as education, health, the environment and democratization, are also lacking.
like taxes on car ownership to fund road maintenance and taxes on use to repair environmental damage.
i am not advocating a european tax system for cars, but a system in which the tax bases and objectives of the member states are in line with the internal market, which also takes account of the interests of a healthy environment.
but an investment climate requires clear, transparent legislation and adequate and well-trained researchers.
i therefore call on the commission and the member states to put their words into action and to take concrete measures to create a business climate favourable to research and development in europe.
my first objection is that the proposal does not go along with other proposals to tackle environmental problems arising from mobility and transport.
president, better and more effective legislation and governance have been put on the rails, essentially, by the white paper and the many actions taken since by the european parliament and the commission, by guaranteeing access to documents for citizens, by continuing to commit to a modern personnel policy and to a budget geared to results, by working on the announced impact assessments, for example in the economic, social and environmental fields, and by actually implementing the interinstitutional agreement.
this leads people to over-action and waste.
these countries differ not only in legislation but also in pay, working conditions, safety and environmental protection.
such differences are a welcome tool for those who see social dumping and environmental pollution as a means of winning a competition.
ports with a declining level of remuneration, safety and environmental protection.
such a port directive would be in line with a number of recent environmental measures taken by the european union, which aim to make it more difficult to dump ship waste and cargo residues at sea and to prevent single-hull tankers from leaving european ports in the long term.
the green paper on ports was clear, for it called for the elimination of competition between ports, in particular unfair competition and the environmental consequences of such unfair competition in the construction of new terminals.
the compulsory licences required for new service providers in relation to social, environmental and other requirements, such as safety, are not included.
mr president, given our commitment to a sustainable transport policy and system for business, staff and society, i cannot therefore agree with the result that the committee is presenting to us today.
– mr president, i wish to begin by thanking the european parliament, the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy and, in particular, the rapporteur, mr blokland, for the work they have put into the first reading report.
our proposal aims to ensure consistency in dealing with shipments of waste.
in relation to shipments within the community, i share the concerns expressed about standard dumping in waste for recovery.
the commission proposal and the communication on a thematic strategy on the prevention and recycling of waste clearly recognise the problem.
in relation to exports from the community to third countries, i support the amendments adopted by the committee on the environment to further sharpen the regulation by making reference to both eu legislation and certain internationally-agreed guidelines, in particular those on ship recycling.
let me conclude this introduction by saying that it is important that we do not allow environmental standard dumping, either when we ship waste internally within the community or when we export it from the community to third countries.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the waste is disposed of in a safe manner.
this is what makes a lot of waste go to other countries.
this is contrary to the principles of proximity and self-care, which apply to the disposal of waste under the waste framework directive.
waste shipments can only be refused if the waste is not being put to good use in the importing country.
the problem with this whole discussion is that the useful use of waste does not mean that it is better for the environment.
the european commission recognises this problem, noting, among other things, that few environmental requirements are imposed on operations which lead to useful use.
at the moment the court of justice is deciding what is the useful use of waste and this is not acceptable.
the amendment of the waste framework directive has also been delayed for too long.
it is not responsible to the waste sector to wait for the whole lengthy process of adapting the framework directive on waste.
since the problems arise mainly in the shipment of waste, it is obvious that these additional conditions should be formulated in a very specific way in this regulation.
the environment committee believes that as long as these conditions are not formulated by the european commission, member states should be able to impose conditions on the recovery of waste themselves.
i also believe that it should be possible to refuse shipments of waste if a minimum percentage of useful use and a minimum caloric value are not met.
the possibility of refusing a waste shipment on environmental grounds does not imply an obligation to refuse.
some of the position papers wrongly state that waste shipments are prohibited.
articles 12 and 13 of this regulation do not refer to a prohibition but to the fact that a shipment of waste can take place by mutual consent.
export of waste should only be allowed if it leads to recovery or final disposal in the short term.
so, as far as the environment committee is concerned: no waste exports intended for so-called provisional recovery or temporary disposal.
there is no way of knowing where the waste has gone or what has happened to it.
waste that is properly sorted, well defined and actually used or disposed of in an environmentally sound manner can therefore be exported.
the commission is also proposing a ban on the export of unsorted household waste.
we do not transfer our waste water to another country.
they themselves admit that they cannot control the waste shipments.
in conclusion, mr president, on the european waste market price competition is acceptable, but environmental competition is not.
what the environment committee does not want is waste exports which lead to an environmentally less hygienic alternative.
the aim of this regulation is not to facilitate trade in waste but to enable waste management to be carried out in an environmentally sound manner.
environmental dumping is still a major problem after 28 years.
this is partly because environmental standards are not the same everywhere, especially because there is a great deal of controversy about what is actually useful application.
but unfortunately the commission has bowed to the pressure of the waste industry, which prefers to continue dumping waste.
we must now have this political debate and the committee on the environment has done that.
this distinguishes soil from other environmental components and goes some way towards explaining why air and water policies were developed earlier.
the commission fully agrees that it is vital to apply an integrated approach to soil, based on sustainable development.
we also recognise that it is necessary to gain greater understanding of soil biodiversity, the nutrient and water cycles and the issues related to the use of compost.
the commission fully subscribes to the role attributed to soil protection in the context of major processes such as biodiversity decline, climate change, desertification, coastal erosion and forest fires.
that is why we must also take russia into account from the outset in the new neighbourhood policy, because of its influence - not always as positive - in minsk, kiev and chisinau, but also because of its energy policy and, of course, because of the fact that russia is a nuclear power and a member of the un security council.
without a sustainable solution for the north-east, the country will be disrupted and people will be exterminated.
the economic, social and environmental consequences.
multilateralism and a broad concept of security, including peace and security, but also poverty reduction and sustainable development, have always been at the heart of foreign policy.
i think there should be a lot of "shall"s. i believe that it is good for the environment and good for the economy if we can create a level playing field and we do not have that patchwork of environmental legislation across europe that benefits neither the economy nor the environment.
i am afraid that we will end up with a loose whole, and i do not think that will work, not for our economy and not for the environment.
i think that this is good for the environment and good for our economy, because we have a minimum of harmonization.
that's particularly good for the environment because there are no limits.
in the internal market which we want to optimise, there are no frontiers for our companies either, so in that respect i think minimum harmonization is a good starting point, which is good for the environment and good for our economy.
mr president, environmental liability is a sensitive subject.
this is also reflected in the battle between the committee on the environment and the committee on legal affairs.
but now it is half-soft and will not help the environmental situation much.
we are lagging behind even the united states in terms of legislation when it comes to biodiversity.
the committee on the environment was in favour of extending the directive to include these three additions, but unfortunately the liberal rapporteur was not.
the crucial question is who should be held responsible for the environmental damage.
we ourselves proposed that part of the money should be put into the kedo reserve when north korea failed to comply with all the conditions of this nuclear energy programme.
the compromise proposal on the table also pays very little attention to homeopathic medicines, whereas the committee on the environment supports this by a large majority.
it was very important for us greens to incorporate the environmental effects of medicines into european legislation.
for veterinary medicinal products, adverse environmental effects may even lead to blockage.
in any case, we can say that, whatever happens, today is a real e-day, an environmental day, because we are passing legislation for the first time in the history of the european union which gives us a legal title to make polluters pay for the damage they cause.
but does that mean that those with a lot of money can cause pollution on a large scale?
as long as we continue to consider the economy to be more important than the environment, we will always seek to find mitigating circumstances and obtain exemptions.
another solution would be to either not charge anyone for cleaning up and restoring in the event of environmental disasters or to have it paid for through taxation.
but it is also clear that this is ultimately a deeper objective, the internalization of the external costs of the environment.
the problems are clear: environment, noise, emissions, congestion, insecurity, and so on and so forth.
but i think that given the circumstances in austria, it is an acceptable compromise between the principle of free movement and the protection of the environment.
i am in favour of the need to make sure that there is always a place for sustainable transport.
i would like to know from the commission how free transit through austria can be guaranteed within the terms of the agreement reached in the compromise on the environmental tax, if the austrian government ignores that agreement and thinks it can solve the problem in its own way.
in this country, there is a feeling that membership of the european union and democratic decision-making in one's own environment are no longer entirely compatible.