this situation is unsustainable because we are reaching a situation of congestion on the roads, which is very burdensome in economic and environmental terms, and which must be tackled with political will and adequate financial means.
in view of the need to ensure a response to ageing that ensures both economic growth and financial sustainability and is in line with the strategy adopted by the gothenburg council in june 2001, member states will need to set themselves the following objectives: increasing employment rates, reducing public debt to offset increased expenditure on pensions and health care and reforming pension schemes.
it is in this perspective that the commission's proposals are strategic if accessibility, quality and financial sustainability of health care for older people is to be guaranteed.
- mr president, this report expresses a positive position on aquaculture, which we support, considering it as complementary and not as a substitute for the fisheries sector, and placing it in the context of sustainable development and the precautionary principle, which implies, in particular, full attention to environmental issues and the refusal of the production of genetically modified fish.
aquaculture should not be compared with any other industry but with agriculture and livestock farming, since its implications are directly linked to the development of species and the natural environment, in particular coastal areas and alternative uses of space.
i would like to stress, among these, the need to draw up integrated environmental management programmes, both in marine and freshwater areas, since the need for such environmental plans has become evident following the recent disasters of the erika and the prestige; secondly, the strengthening of food security in order to ensure the health of stocks and to guarantee the confidence of citizens, the strengthening of research, adequate funding for the sector, both for new units and for modernising existing ones.
as the rapporteur proposes, to ensure the future of this sector, consideration should be given to aspects such as: the development and management of integrated environmental management programmes, both in maritime areas and in inland waters; the strengthening of food security, in order to ensure the health of stocks and guarantee the confidence of citizens; the strengthening of research, in order to find new solutions, both in technological, environmental and health terms; the appropriate financing of the sector, both for the modernisation of existing units and for new units.
the financial effort involved for the eu budget is, however, modest, amounting to only eur 276.1 million in 2001. if european union vessels were to stop fishing in international waters, others would do so, irrespective of the ecological or social concerns of european union vessels.
however, it is imperative that when operating in international waters and the exclusive economic zone of other countries, eu vessels comply with criteria and conditions of high ecological and social standards, in particular with regard to the conservation of fisheries resources.
- (pt) i think that the rapporteur has made important references to the social, economic and environmental aspects of our fishing industry in relation to fishing in international waters.
however, it seems to me urgent that, in the context of the reform of the common fisheries policy, both the european commission and the european parliament address how to comply with the provisions of the action plan of the 2002 johannesburg summit on sustainable development, including the elimination of all subsidies to illegal, unsustainable and unregulated fishing, and the need to restore endangered fish stocks by 2015.
in writing.
the external fisheries policy must be developed in a systematic and sustainable way.
it is precisely in the area of the environment that people's dissatisfaction is most acute.
the indignation is growing exponentially when many of these projects with unacceptable environmental impacts are financed under the common agricultural policy and the structural funds.
and i congratulate the commissioner for the environment on that.
this proposal for a directive on public participation in the drawing up of environmental plans and programmes is a good example of how citizens' participation in policy can be democratized.
it is therefore very positive that, in the face of the tragedy of these figures, the johannesburg summit has for the first time linked poverty eradication and environmental protection in a very close way.
as a result of the european union's action, a large number of public-private partnerships have been established, particularly in the water and energy sectors.
it is also thanks to the european union's action that a ten-year plan for sustainable production and consumption has been adopted.
in practice, it has become clear that the poorest countries are not willing to compromise on biodiversity, renewable energy and governance while the united states and the european union persist in a model of subsidizing their products in the areas of agriculture, fisheries and fossil fuels.
in view of this, if we are to be credible partners of the developing countries and if we are to mitigate this shocking divide in wealth between the north and the south, it is essential that we fulfil our promises in terms of financing, in terms of debt relief for the poorest countries, but also in the progressive elimination of our subsidies in agriculture, fisheries and energy and, of course, the eradication of trade barriers.
this proposal is of great importance not only for the average citizen but also for the community's environmental policy, by providing for public participation in the development of certain plans and programmes relating to the environment.
the authorities are therefore encouraged to inform the public of their decisions, the reasons and motives for them and the procedures for public participation and to support environmental education.
this encourages the active participation of citizens in solving environmental problems.
thus, free access, transparency and dissemination of information on the environment become a fundamental right of every citizen who is interested in the quality of his or her place of living and working.
in addition, some recent disasters have made it clear that citizens are increasingly entitled to manage their risks, to demonstrate, to demand and to demand commitments to protect their interests in matters such as the environment and health.
- (pt) i welcome the results obtained in the conciliation procedure which concluded the preparation of the second of the three directives on environmental citizenship.
i would like to reiterate the crucial importance of public control in environmental matters; i even think, as i said on 18 december last, during the discussion of another report by our colleague, that access to information and the right to participate in environmental matters must now be regarded as a normal prerogative of citizenship.
i am in favour of genuine citizen control of our environmental heritage.
it should be recalled that the purpose of this directive is to incorporate into the community system principles already contained in the convention adopted in aarhus on 25 june 1998 (during the ministerial conference 'environment for europe').
however, this directive focused on access to environmental information and called for greater public participation in decisions affecting the environment, with the rights defined by the stockholm declaration (1972) and by article 1 of the rio declaration (1992) thus having greater effects.
finally, my vote in favour also aims to underline the guarantee, among other things, of public participation in the authorisation of plans and programmes relating to waste management, air pollution and the protection of water against nitrates, as well as projects which have a significant impact on the environment, such as new airport terminals or certain military projects.
this directive is fundamental in the fight against air pollution because, by acting on the level of standardisation of engines and fuel quality, it strengthens the reduction of emissions and consumption of vehicles.
it is crucial to internalize environmental costs into the economy.
- (pt) i very much share the rapporteur's concern for the environment and his commitment to the joint project.
the negative consequences of market dominance are particularly omitted, particularly in terms of the deepening of the north/south divide, the increase in world poverty and environmental degradation.
but the truth is not in porto alegre either, which demonizes globalization, which only seeks to improve social and environmental policies, which focuses on models of redistribution of wealth, which openly assumes anti-americanism and which gives voice to ngos and unions.
the challenge is to regulate globalisation by taking sustainable development as the model to be pursued.
in this respect, it seems to me important, first of all, to define international sustainable development indicators which measure social, environmental and economic performance, such as the one we will be assessing at the next spring summit.
it is urgent to act at the price level by internalising environmental costs in all products.
thirdly, it is essential to boost international governance through the reform of institutions such as the world trade organisation, the world bank and the bretton woods standards, as well as the creation of new institutions such as a world environment organisation.
a new institutional design is essential if we are to use the tools of globalisation to serve sustainable development.
as is the case, for example, with food quality and safety, with respect for basic environmental rules, or with respect for the trademarks and designations of origin and geographical indications of our products, which, as we know, are now being completely pirated by the most diverse countries in the world, without the rules of the wto being able to prevent this.
it is important to remember that we want to make the european union the most competitive society in the world, and that is why the eeurope 2005 action plan was drawn up, which aims to provide an environment favourable to private investment and job creation, boost productivity, modernise public services and give everyone the opportunity to participate in the global information society.
sustainable development with a view to social and ecological reconversion must be based on a profound change in the irrational criteria of the stability pact, taking into account the diversity of the economic and social situation of the different countries, and implies a more equitable distribution of wealth, the solidarity-based renewal of social protection systems, the relaunching of public and social investment, particularly in education, research and the knowledge economy.
- mr president, we are not only living in the knowledge economy, we are also living after the kyoto protocol in the carbon economy.
whoever can produce the same amount with fewer emissions will win in this new economy.
and so, there are advantages to be gained in terms of employment, in terms of the economy, but also in terms of the environment.
it seems to me therefore very important that the european union has developed an emissions trading system which will enable it to reduce emissions in industry and energy, covering five thousand companies and covering 46% of carbon dioxide emissions.
but we cannot solve kyoto with industry and energy alone.
it is essential that the commission develops initiatives in the field of transport, agriculture and energy.
but the truth is that even though we live in the carbon economy in europe, we are still dependent on russia to get the kyoto protocol to go into effect.
the entry into force of the protocol is essential for european companies to accept the next, sometimes more difficult, measures to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in europe.
- (pt) we voted today in favour of a solution which aims to strike a balance, which is always difficult to achieve in these cases, between protecting the environment and respecting the principle of the free movement of goods, by allowing the free passage of the least polluting heavy goods vehicles between 2004 and 2006 and indirectly encouraging the replacement of these means of transport.
i also believe that the european transport fund, another of the measures proposed, is an important pillar of the proper development of road, rail, sea, port and airport infrastructure, in view of the creation of a european network of balanced and sustainable infrastructure.
many of the problems which are the subject of the rapporteur's concern, such as road safety, the prevention of bottlenecks, mobility and environmental protection, would be greatly reduced by determined action to redress this balance by favouring the modes of transport which are currently the most penalized.
the internalisation of external costs, such as environmental costs, can also play an important role in this correction, by obviously penalizing more the more polluting and congested modes of transport, which are also the most likely to cause bottlenecks.
- (pt) transport is a strategic sector which is essential and indispensable for sustainable development and for the economic and social cohesion of the whole union, because it goes beyond the economic and trade union interests of this sector and its quality has an influence on the whole community.
and this is where the council's action can be very useful, in particular in supporting the work of the governmental expert groups on explosive war waste and anti-tank mines and introducing priority treatment of this issue.
in view of the efficiency and budgetary execution of the programme, which has always lacked more resources, it is important to keep forest protection measures (both those relating to pollution and those relating to fires) within the same regulation, thus continuing the previous commitments, which will be abolished with the entry into force of the present one.
it must be borne in mind that while pollution affects the north of europe more, forest fires are a scourge of the south, and so the exclusion proposed by the commission makes no sense, especially since the prevention measures included in regulation (eec) no 2158/92 contain actions which would not be covered by the rural development regulation, which has other objectives in relation to forestry and forestry, despite what the commissioner has said.
every summer brings with it this national scourge and its dramatic consequences in various aspects: economic, ecological, social and human.
sustainable forest management is becoming increasingly complex and technical.
in addition to fires, the forest is exposed to other, more recent threats, originating from air pollution and climate change.
the commission's initiative integrates the existing legislative framework for the protection of forests against fire and air pollution and introduces a new community mechanism for the long-term monitoring of forests and environmental interactions.
i also agree that this proposal should cover the commitments made in the convention on climate change, in which the forest is listed as a sink for greenhouse gases.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, there is no need to talk about the importance of forests in the european union, with the 40% of the territory they occupy, the two and a half million jobs they generate, not to mention their environmental importance, as recently recognized by the kyoto protocol.
the southern regions of the european union are those most at risk of desertification, as has already been said by several colleagues, with an arid, hot climate, very conducive to fires.
and if the forest is not protected against fires, it is not worth talking about biodiversity, ladies and gentlemen, commissioner.
in the case of the forests, the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the forests are not used as a source of carbon.
the un conventions on climate change consider that one of the policies that should be implemented in order to mitigate the effects of climate change is the promotion of forests as carbon sinks, through afforestation and reforestation activities.
the kyoto protocol even sets the maximum amount of carbon sinks that can be used by states to meet their greenhouse gas emission reduction targets.
in the meantime, given the fragility of the scientific basis for the forest's role as a carbon sink, this kyoto protocol modality was never welcomed by the european union and was eventually accepted as an indispensable concession for an agreement, in particular with japan and russia.
now that this issue has been decided, especially after the marrakesh conference, the eu should use forest focus to develop the european strategy for the use of carbon sinks.
- (pt) i voted in favour of this report because it is very important, in the context of sustainable development, to adopt better measures to combat all the factors which contribute to the deterioration of the forests of the european union.
the establishment of new forest biodiversity, soil, climate change and carbon sequestration monitoring activities is a prerequisite for ensuring the conservation of an environmental heritage that europe must protect jealously.
the forest is the most complex ecosystem.
it is still very rich in biodiversity and there are still large areas of forests, but they have limits and we must remain vigilant.
we must make sustainable use of the forest.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's financial aid is not used to finance the destruction of the environment.
the use of plutonium/mox or other nuclear waste as a substitute for depleted uranium should be carefully considered.
there is a danger that the right of access of the people of the european union and of third countries, including developing countries, to essential goods and services such as water, education, health, culture, energy, transport and telecommunications will be undermined.
we therefore note with concern the commission's proposals which ignore the importance of public services in areas such as energy, transport, post and telecommunications for social cohesion, the well-being of the population and social inclusion and do not take due account of the strong mobilisation of the social movement in defence of quality public services.
it is therefore necessary to declare a moratorium on the liberalization of services and for the commission to draw up a detailed report on the foreseeable economic, social and environmental consequences of the liberalization policies within the world trade organization, both in the european union and in developing countries.
i agree that this 2004 budget has set as priorities the completion of the internal market, the strategy for sustainable development and the implementation of the lisbon strategy, with a view to making the european union the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world by 2010. these are the great challenges that lie ahead for the european union, and they are particularly important because they have immediate and concrete implications for every european citizen.
in addition, the cap is becoming increasingly broad, integrating new dimensions such as rural development, environmental preservation, food safety and quality, and thus requiring adequate funding for this new reality, which is of paramount importance to european citizens.
this increased capacity of the european parliament to intervene in the cap will safeguard the economic, social and environmental interests of all european farmers.
this report seeks to maintain a certain balance between liberalization of port services and a constant concern for social standards of worker protection, maritime safety and environmental protection in sensitive regions.
- (pt) the copenhagen european council confirmed the outcome of the accession process involving ten candidate countries and negotiations were concluded on the basis of a financial package of eur 41 billion, which will allow the adjustment of the financial perspective and which will form the basis of the 2004 budget, also increased as a result of the entry into force of the treaty of nice on 1 february 2003. we voted in favour of the report because, in terms of internal policies, it recalls that the completion of the internal market, the implementation of the lisbon strategy and the sustainable development strategy remain the three main objectives of the european union and that they will be of particular importance in 2004, when the new member states will start to participate.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of a natural disaster is a very good one.
finally, the quality of public expenditure is essential to gauge the degree to which the jep is in line with the objectives of the lisbon strategy and the principle of sustainable development agreed in gothenburg.
i regret that the committee on economic and monetary affairs and industrial policy has not considered the proposal i made calling on the commission and the council to suspend the stability pact immediately and calling for a thorough review of the economic and monetary policy guidelines in the european union, in particular to take account of the issues of sustainable economic development, employment and the implementation of all social rights through universal and quality public services.
i share the view that a legal framework should be established to promote and develop the use of alternative fuels for road transport, not only because of the safety guarantee they offer to investors, but also because of what they represent for the global effort to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, particularly in the context of the commitments made in kyoto.
- (pt) in view of the forecast of a 50% increase in greenhouse gas emissions from transport by 2010, there is an urgent need for a legal framework that promotes public passenger transport, with emphasis on the transport of goods by sea and rail, encourages the creation of new engines, the introduction of new fuels and a tax on energy and carbon dioxide emissions.
i also think it is important in this context that we all assess the impact of certain issues, such as the excessive indebtedness of individuals and companies, the excessive dependence on energy and the impact of the entry of china and india into the world of industrial production.
this rigidity has slowed economic growth within the european union, has not alleviated high levels of unemployment and inequality and has failed to ensure sustainable development.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
it is indeed a social ethic of the company, an ecological ethic, and, alas, i have read things about a kantian ethic of the entrepreneur, when in fact many of them seem more subject to the anathemas of a 19th century thinker, karl max.
it thus distorts the principles of the treaty and prevents their implementation, particularly in the fields of economic and social cohesion, solidarity, environmental protection, public health and food safety, public services and social rights, sustainable development and quality of life, which is unacceptable.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, this proposal for a directive is based on a generous set of objectives: the protection of health and the environment.
there is no doubt that since np and npe tend to accumulate harmfully in living organisms, the water framework directive 2000/60/ec classifies np among the 'priority hazardous substances' and since enormous quantities of np and npe are placed on the market and used, their release into the environment must be strictly limited.
fourth: to guarantee environmental protection linked to job creation by investing in clean technologies and environmental actions.
- (pt) the environmental dimension is not yet sufficiently integrated into the lisbon strategy.
first, the expansion of the list of structural indicators used as the basis for assessing the commitment of states, including new environmental indicators that assess the european situation in areas such as water resources, biodiversity, soil degradation, chemical pollution and food security.
secondly, there is an urgent need to update the european strategy for sustainable development in the light of the commitments made at the johannesburg conference and to create monitoring mechanisms to assess the european union's compliance with the global objectives.
thirdly, it is important that the lisbon strategy includes, also at the environmental level, a real action plan with policies, objectives and timetables for implementation.
the claim that there is no viable agriculture without intensive pesticide use is only true if the environmental cost is not internalized in the final price of all products.
however, pesticides have enormous costs for the environment (pollution of groundwater, loss of biodiversity) and for human health (endocrine disruption, infertility, cancer).
- (pt) i abstained from voting on this report, although i think that overall it is going in the right direction in respect of the ambitious objectives decided at the gothenburg european council to promote sustainable development by even making it a criterion to be taken into account in all community action.
the communication therefore reflects the environmental problems of a particular production system and the measures presented are in no way adapted to the specificities of the different european regions.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
in the resolutions adopted in recent years, parliament has put forward a number of recommendations, in particular to encourage further reforms in the field of roma integration, improving social dialogue, combating corruption and organised crime, strengthening the independence of the judiciary, reducing regional disparities and improving the quality of the environment, and strictly observing the rules governing public markets.
in accordance with the precautionary principle and with a view to protecting public health and the environment, it is essential to promote the setting of biodegradability thresholds and to put into practice new techniques for measuring surfactants in detergents.
the adoption of a directive on environmental liability is invaluable.
it gives credibility to the environmental legislator, increases the protection of citizens and sends a clear signal to economic operators that pollution does not pay.
the committee on legal affairs, on the other hand, in seeking to resolve some legal ambiguity, has further weakened the environmental objectives.
so as regards the scope of the directive, first of all i accept that damage to biodiversity needs to be clarified, but the solution, in my view, is simply to exclude it from the directive.
the loss of biodiversity in the european union is very real and the commitments of johannesburg and gothenburg have to be fulfilled.
secondly, i believe that, in addition to damage to the ecological and chemical status of water, damage to its quantitative status should also be covered by the directive, as provided for in the water framework directive.
thirdly, i think it is unacceptable that hydrocarbon pollution in maritime transport and radioactive pollution from nuclear power stations should be excluded from the scope of the directive.
these activities are among the most damaging to the environment and the international instruments do not fully respond to the prevention and repair of the damage caused by these activities.
although voluntary environmental agreements are welcome in theory, reality has shown that many of these agreements, precisely because they are voluntary, are not implemented and, on the other hand, have often served as a pretext for more ambitious legally binding initiatives not to enter into force.
we all remember what happened with the emissions trading directive: the commission has already made a number of proposals to the council, and i am sure that the council will be able to accept them.
i think there are a few rules that must be followed: firstly, voluntary agreements are justified only as a complement to, and not as a basis for, environmental policy.
- (pt) this report is part of the process of creating an internal energy market in the eu, in accordance with the call of the lisbon european council of 23 and 24 march 2000, reaffirmed at the barcelona and brussels spring councils, for the acceleration of the process of liberalising the electricity and gas markets, which implies greater market deregulation and the intensification of crossborder trade between member states.
i have always opposed this process, not only for reasons of socio-economic order, quality and guarantee of the supply of the public service, but also because it is a strategic sector for development, which affects independence, sovereignty and energy security.
the proposed amendments would in fact return the taxes levied to the member states where final consumption takes place, thus facilitating cross-border energy trade.
the ultimate objective therefore remains to meet the needs of the european single market in the energy sector.
- (pt) the european strategy for sustainable development adopted at the gothenburg summit must be combined with corporate social responsibility (csr).
today, smes and large multinationals must be aware that their success depends on responsible behaviour, both in terms of the environment and respect for fundamental rights and the promotion of social cohesion.
it is a recognised fact that social and environmental responsibility enhances competitiveness.
in the portuguese case, we could even speak of corporate social irresponsibility, as multinationals close down and relocate their operations to countries with lower wages and more flexible social and environmental standards, putting thousands of workers out of work, jeopardising the development of less favoured regions, breaking contracts with local authorities and states that have provided them with significant public aid and tax benefits.
they arbitrarily and illegally lay off workers, impose flexible working hours, encourage child labour and show irresponsibility in the field of pollution.
this climate of impunity and non-compliance with the legislation in force must be brought to an end as a matter of urgency.
- (pt) the resolution on the intelligent energy - europe programme (2003-2006) deserves our support in general because this programme:- seeks to ensure continuity through an energy programme, following on from the current framework programme (1998-2002) in this field, and addressing sustainable development, security of energy supply, energy efficiency, electricity produced from renewable energy sources, among other aspects;- advocates an increase in its budgetary allocations, even if this increase is clearly insufficient (from eur 190 to 200 million), given the strategic importance of the areas covered: energy efficiency and rational use of energy; new and renewable energies; international energy transport aspects, in particular; advocates appropriate control in the development of countries;;- advocates the need to ensure a balance between the full implementation of the programme and the budgetary appropriations; it also proposes to facilitate access for potential candidates.
as for the question of the creation of the european agency for intelligent energy, we believe that it is essentially political and concerns the merits of effective policies for research and promotion of energy that have environmental and economic benefits.
- (pt) i agree with the report in general, although i think that one of the solutions indicated by the rapporteur to increase energy efficiency and the use of renewable energy sources (the creation of a european agency for intelligent energy) still needs to be demonstrated.
despite this divergence of views on methodology, i share the rapporteur's concerns about the environment and efficiency, and the conviction that without the involvement of local and national organisations the measures advocated will not be properly implemented.
- (pt) i largely share the rapporteur's concerns about the need to promote the rational use and supply of energy and the strategic preference for clean forms of energy.
in fact, beyond the lower co2 emissions it promotes, the decentralised nature of cogeneration normally prevents the construction of large power generating units, by reducing the environmental effects of their infrastructure and transmission lines.
- (pt) i voted in favour of this report, which seems to me to be balanced and to offer a higher level of environmental protection.
since the maastricht treaty, the union has committed itself to ensuring that all its policies protect the environment.
for real environmental protection and biodiversity protection, it is essential that economic agents cooperate, since, as the report says, today 'the sources of environmental pollution no longer come mainly from industrial equipment, but reside in multiple economic activities and consumer behaviour', requiring a new, more creative approach to achieve the ambitious and vital goals of better environmental protection.
on the other hand, setting concrete objectives and targets and promoting a simpler and more operational legislative framework, readily understandable by all the actors involved, would certainly lead to greater awareness and more effective protection of the environment.
in order to update its directive 94/25/ec (16.06.1994), the european commission decided to keep abreast of technological developments in engines and the latest environmental protection requirements.
the original initiative of the european commission to make vessels more compatible with the environmental standards in force is to be commended, in particular:- the emissions of exhaust gases and particles that degrade the quality of bathing water;- as well as engine noise, which harm both the environment and the well-being of the population and holidaymakers.
- (pt) while i acknowledge the merits of the delegation to the conciliation committee and the quality of mr callanan's work, i do not think that a sufficiently ambitious result has been achieved in terms of noise pollution, air pollution and the promotion of the quality of water intended for human consumption.
i therefore disagree with the derogation for steam boats, the 3 db tolerance for all types of engines and the limit values applied to gaseous emissions in specific inland waters.
- (pt) we believe that policies to protect the environment and natural resources are essential to sustainable development.
however, there is a need to strengthen responsibility for repairing environmental damage.
in this sense, it is important, as part of a wider set of measures and actions, to ensure that heavy industry (in particular heavy industry) accepts its responsibilities for the protection of the environment and natural resources, through correct, fair and effective measures that combat impunity and prevent public finances from bearing the costs and repairing environmental damage due to negligence or to commercial strategies, almost always private, aimed at maximising profit.
the current ep resolution improves the commission's proposal (based on its 1983 green paper) on environmental liability for the prevention and repair of environmental damage by challenging the positions of heavy industry (see unice opinion) which characterised the commission's proposal.
- (pt) the commission proposal under consideration is very important because it aims to create a comprehensive community system for preventing and repairing environmental damage, including water pollution, damage to biodiversity and soil pollution which pose significant risks to human health.
after many years of debate and repeated ecological disasters, we have reached the decisive moment for effective prevention and repair of environmental damage, in terms of a real 'separation of waters'.
in the commission's proposal, however, i consider that the assessment of issues such as the scope of the definition of biodiversity (limited to the natura 2000 network), the compulsory financial insurance/guarantee system (for operators referred to in annex 1 to the proposal), the adoption of an exemption system, the removal of objective liability in favour of the introduction of mitigating circumstances and the exclusion of damage resulting from certain activities is too vague.
it is true that this situation calls for a new approach to the formulation of economic policy decisions in order to achieve the objectives of high growth, full employment, sustainable development and greater social cohesion.
we remember the burning of wood and the slaughter of animals, which, in addition to their environmental, economic and public health consequences, have caused widespread social disruption in the countries affected.
- (pt) although it is already a reality within the eu, as the emissions trading directive shows, the kyoto protocol requires russian ratification in order to be able to enter into force.
the negative consequences of a delayed entry into force of the kyoto protocol are clearly visible, both in terms of climate change mitigation and also in terms of the competitiveness of companies.
the carbon economy must be a global reality and not just a european one.
however, the credibility of this influence depends on the rigour and speed with which the commitments made in johannesburg will be respected, concerning the eradication of extreme poverty, the promotion of access to safe water and sanitation, the change in consumption and production patterns, the fight against the loss of biodiversity and the financing of development.
however, if we are to be credible to developing countries and if we are to erase the glaring inequalities in living conditions between the two hemispheres, action is also essential in the areas of training and education, debt relief and financing for the poorest countries, the removal of trade barriers and the phasing out of our subsidies in the fields of agriculture, fisheries and energy.
- the next item is the report (a5-0115/2003) by mrs mann, on behalf of the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, on regional free trade areas and the european union's trade strategy (2002/2044 (ini)).
the stability pact is an essential instrument to ensure the sound management of the public finances of the member states and to ensure sustainable growth and the smooth functioning of economic and monetary union.
as you know, the main objective of meda, which in 1995 simplified and brought together a disparate set of instruments, is to 'reform economic and social structures and mitigate the consequences that may result from economic development on social life and the environment' in the mediterranean basin, in three areas: 1. strengthening political stability and democracy; 2. creating a free trade area; 3. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 4. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 5. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 6. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 7. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 8. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 9. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 9. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 9. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 9. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 10. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 10. promoting the development of the mediterranean; 10. promoting the development of the mediterranean and the mediterranean region.
i should like to begin by saying that, according to the data of the european environment agency, if we are to reduce our carbon dioxide emissions, it is essential that we invest in maritime transport.
but this commitment to maritime transport to solve the problem of climate change cannot be made at the expense of acidification by sulphur dioxide emissions.
it seems to me therefore unacceptable that the efforts that have been made on land to reduce sulphur dioxide emissions have not been followed up at sea and i therefore welcome the excellent initiative of the commission, although i think it should be more ambitious.
firstly, with lower maximum sulphur limits, so i fully support the 0.5% limit; secondly, by extending the zones for reducing sulphur dioxide emissions to areas other than those covered by the marpol convention, and for this it is essential that the commission should push for the extension of the reduction of these emissions to the mediterranean, the north-west atlantic and the black sea in the marpol convention; and thirdly, i think it is important that what we are doing on climate change to reduce the economic costs of complying with the kyoto protocol can also be applied to the acidification problem.
if we are going to reduce the cost of complying with the kyoto protocol in europe by eur 1 300 million, then a similar sulphur dioxide emissions trading system should also be applied to enable us to reduce the cost of meeting these targets.
mr president, this proposal for a regulation on the management of atlantic waters has suffered a major setback with the presentation, at the last fisheries council, of a compromise proposal by the current eu presidency which, in the name of non-discrimination between member states and invoking the end of the transitional period for the full integration of portugal and spain into the common fisheries policy, seeks to eliminate the division between their fishing zones, making it difficult to take measures to control fishing effort and calling into question the guarantee of the sustainability of resources in portuguese waters.
of course, the principles of sustainability in the exploitation of marine resources, based on scientific criteria - we all agree on this - must be respected, but the principle of non-discrimination must also be applied, although this must be properly crossed and complemented by the equally important principle of relative stability.
we hope that this arrangement can continue, because it is the best way to maintain responsible fishing and a climate of peace in the fishing community between the two countries.
but it is also for all those who believe in sustainable development and the need to reverse the logic of overexploitation of fisheries resources and the extermination of species, which is driving our oceans and, with them, fishing communities to catastrophe!
energy is a strategic sector fundamental to the sovereignty of any state.
hence the presentation by our group of a proposal to reject the common position and the various amendments which seek to minimise the negative aspects of the recommendation, in particular with regard to ensuring compliance with public service obligations, respect for the environment, the specific nature of the outermost regions, and the protection of domestic and small consumers.
between 1990 and 1999, the european union already reduced its greenhouse gas emissions by 4% and could reach the remaining reduction level by 2012 (4%), thanks to low-cost measures.
the commission's proposed measures for the european climate change programme and the framework directive on emissions trading do not include the promotion of nuclear energy.
an agreement on this could be important in speeding up the process of ratifying the cartagena protocol on biosafety and biodiversity.
- (pt) as you know, the overall objective of the cartagena protocol on biosafety, approved on 29 january 2000, is to ensure an appropriate level of protection in the safe transfer, handling and use of genetically modified organisms (gmos) resulting from modern biotechnology, which may have adverse effects on the conservation and sustainable use of biological diversity, also taking into account the risks to human health and their impact especially on transboundary movements.
the commission has also adopted a proposal for a regulation on the protection of the environment and the environmentally sound use of energy from renewable sources.
i therefore fully support this proposal for a regulation, which i consider extremely positive and timely in order to guarantee greater safety in maritime traffic, greater control of oil transport and more effective protection of the marine environment, measures which i have long advocated.
- (pt) the protection of juveniles is a priority to ensure the conservation of fish stocks and their long-term sustainability.
the commission must understand that a sustainable and viable fisheries sector is only possible with the confidence and cooperation of fishermen and taking into account the views of those concerned.
- (pt) it was necessary to send a clear signal to the council presidency, given that the compromise proposal supported by the commission and promoted by spain, which aims to create a single atlantic area for the management of fishing effort, without the division of the current conservation areas, not only does not serve the development of a sustainable fisheries policy, but would also produce adverse effects, in particular for portugal, in terms of the conservation measures under way and at socio-economic level, both for the fleet and for the regions that depend on this sector.
it is therefore difficult to understand the restrictions that have long been imposed on fishermen in these countries, while paradoxically opening the door to a further waste of fishery resources.
in this way, it is possible to prevent the rural exodus of these populations, to encourage the protection of the landscape and therefore of the environment, while trying to improve the living standards of the populations of these regions.
i would also like to stress that the european parliament must systematically support the development of an agricultural policy which respects the environment, giving priority to support for farmers who respect community rules and young people who want to set up as farmers.
the commission's justification is based on environmental issues, namely the use of fossil fuels for dehydration and even the use of irrigation.
but environmental issues can be solved by other means, such as plans to reduce the use of fossil fuels, natural soil drying or the use of renewable energy.
this is why, despite taking account of the environmental factor, we have voted in favour of the rapporteur's proposal to maintain the current common customs tariff, strengthen market instruments and increase total aid to eur 68 per tonne from the 2004/05 marketing year.
however, agricultural production has always had positive externalities for rural development, contributing to job creation, the development of other upstream economic activities, land use planning, and the protection of the environment, landscapes and cultural heritage.
- (pt) i congratulate our colleague, mrs rodríguez ramos, on her excellent report on the multifunctionality of agriculture and the reform of the common agricultural policy, which i support, particularly as regards the defence of a european agricultural policy capable of taking into account the multiple functions of agriculture; the commission has also proposed a number of measures to improve the quality of life in rural areas, including the maintenance of the population in rural areas, land use planning, the protection of the environment, landscape and cultural heritage and the introduction of the concept of territorial cohesion.
the social, environmental and territorial impact of agricultural activity has not received the necessary attention from the community institutions, which have focused agricultural policies mainly on their qualitative and economic aspects.
we must also reorient production towards sustainable and high-quality development.
mr president, i think we can all agree that the sustainability of fisheries resources and measures to conserve them are essential for the fisheries sector.
i also stress the importance of taking into account measures for the conservation and sustainable exploitation of fisheries resources, similar to those we advocate for the mediterranean in various areas of the atlantic, in particular the 200 miles of the portuguese coast and the outermost regions.
i would also like to stress, as the rapporteur does, that the degradation of fisheries has other causes, namely pollution and shipping, and that is why the sector is often also a victim in this process.
it is true that the mediterranean sea, as a result of tourist pressure, as a result of a rapidly growing population in north africa and pollution, is not threatened today as it was when this climate cataclysm completely dried up this beautiful sea.
and research must be a priority for the european community and its bodies so that there is no misunderstanding in the future about the state of fisheries resources and marine biodiversity.
since portugal's gdp is less than 90% of the community average, the country's infrastructure has received a tremendous boost since accession, particularly in the fields of environment (management of aquifers) and transport (rail network).
i would like to express my full support for the rapporteur in urging the council to come forward with a sustainable proposal for the financing of the reform of the common fisheries policy.
it is true that european measures such as the emissions trading system directive, which aims to reduce the cost of meeting the commitments made in kyoto, will help us to reduce the resistance of the united states to the kyoto protocol.
without the participation of the united states in the kyoto protocol, the advantages that the united states will obtain for its products, particularly its energy products, will be due to unfair competition in the short term with european products.
- (pt) the fundamental problem of developing countries in the field of energy - unlike the situation in more developed countries - is not to replace current sources of production with less polluting ones.
the fundamental problem is access to energy sources of all kinds.
therefore, to achieve the dual objective of democratizing access to electricity without worsening the greenhouse effect, it is essential to support the transfer of technology as well as the financing of environmentally beneficial projects.
i welcome the efforts made by the european union in johannesburg to set binding renewable energy targets and the initiatives to engage the business community launched at this summit.
- (pt) i congratulate mr wijkman on his excellent report, both for his insightful reading of the key role played by energy in development policies and for the paths he highlights, always marked by the central concern to improve the living conditions of the poorest.
we must break the energy-poverty dichotomy - the basis of the commission's two proposals - because 'where energy is lacking, poverty grows and a vicious circle is set in place'.
even from a purely economic point of view, any support that can be given in the energy sector is clearly an investment for the future.
- (pt) as stated in the implementation plan of the johannesburg world summit for sustainable development, 'oceans, seas, islands and coastal areas are an integral and essential component of the planet's ecosystem and are of crucial importance for global food security'.
the protection of the marine environment, in particular the conservation of its biodiversity, must be considered a priority.
in addition, additional actions are needed in the field of marine environment protection, a genuine coastal policy and the promotion of sustainable use of the seas.
we therefore agree with the rapporteur that a strategy in this area must incorporate the precautionary principle, the development of protection and conservation measures, an integrated approach to all human activities that have an impact on the marine environment, an integrated approach to the management of fishing effort and a regional approach that takes into account the diversity of regions and respect for their 'ecological characteristics and socio-economic aspects', without forgetting the other causes of marine pollution.
i believe, however, that this communication should have based its analysis on the conservation of fish stocks and not on a vague notion of sustainability.
the analysis does not sufficiently address the impact of fishing on the protection of the marine environment.
i therefore hope that the commission will propose as soon as possible a draft strategy for the protection of the marine environment which presents a comprehensive response to the challenge of promoting sustainability in the marine environment at global level, both by coordinating and consolidating the various existing legal texts and by encouraging the establishment of monitoring and evaluation bodies at european and global level.
this strategy should be accompanied by an action plan for the protection of the marine environment, including objectives, resources and timetables.
finally, i would like to draw attention to the role of the european union in international negotiations on the conservation of the marine environment: it is essential that techniques which lead to bycatch (leaving drifting very long nets which end up killing non-target species such as whales, seals, birds and turtles) are severely restricted at world level.
- (pt) the unanimous decision of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy confirms the almost irrefutable nature of this own-initiative report.
furthermore, the idea that the lack of detailed information is no excuse for avoiding precautionary measures - especially when there is no doubt that biodiversity has declined - is, unless applied blindly, an excellent principle for taking action.
if the eu became a member, the euro-atlantic understanding of environmental problems would certainly be improved and the eu could participate in an important forum, especially for the protection of the northern marine environment.
as for the commission's belief that maximum sustainable yield should be defined in terms of stock sustainability and not economic sustainability, i think a more balanced approach is needed: a strategy for the protection and conservation of the marine environment with, at the same time, the definition of mechanisms to increase economic sustainability.
the ispa programmes are a kind of cohesion fund for the countries that will soon join the european union and are intended to improve basic infrastructure in the field of the environment and transport.
- (pt) the sustainability of the fisheries sector depends on the sustainability of fish stocks, which must be considered as public goods.
we therefore subscribe to the fao code of conduct for responsible fisheries, which states that measures should be introduced to minimise pollution, waste, discards, catches by lost gear or by non-target species.
at the outset, as the rapporteur has said, this can be achieved through the regional advisory councils, as provided for in regulation 2371/2002, by formulating a strategy for the disposal of waste.
they have helped to improve measurements of land use and land use, to understand the impact of rural climate on crops and to predict the yield of major crops.
i mean, without peace in africa, without stability in your countries, i do not see how you can talk about trade with such serenity as you have done, and so well, commissioner...
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to improve the environmental protection of the european union's coal industry.
a ton of carbon will have a price in the market and whoever is able to produce the same with less carbon dioxide emissions will win.
point 7 is the extension, albeit on a voluntary basis, of the system to other greenhouse gases besides carbon dioxide from the second period of the directive.
i therefore believe that the european emissions market, with this agreement, has become more ambitious environmentally, more economically efficient, with less risk of distortion of competition and more compatible with other national policies already in place.
regional development can be taken into account, the achievement of social and environmental objectives, such as working conditions and employment protection, or the production methods themselves can be encouraged by inserting special provisions in the contract.
while these directives are essential for the balance of the internal market and for crossborder procurement, the main advantage of these directives is rather the possibility of encouraging sustainable development.
it is essential to include environmental and social objectives in public procurement.
unfortunately, neither the proposal for a directive nor the report by our colleague mr zappalà gives public bodies the right (let alone the obligation) to choose a particular service or product in a public procurement on the basis of its sustainability.
it is difficult to accept that the eu recognises in its european strategy for sustainable development and in the commitments made in johannesburg that it is fundamental to integrate environmental costs into economic activity, and that it prohibits member states from basing their procurement policy on this same principle.
- (pt) this directive, in line with the guidelines set out in the lisbon strategy, is intended to complement the general directive laying down the coordination rules for public procurement by meeting the specific requirements of the procurement procedures in the water, energy, transport and postal services sectors.
the possibility for member states to take appropriate measures to prevent accidental contamination of conventional and organic crops by gmos is also enhanced, although effective control measures after the release of gmos into the environment are difficult to envisage in a context of the removal of borders and the free movement of goods.
we know that its approval is a further step towards lifting the current moratorium, which should be maintained in view of the risks associated with the release of gmos into the environment and the coexistence of gmos with conventional and organic crops.
the latter thus becomes a first line of defence in the fight against and in the mobilisation of consumers and farmers against gmos and their release into the environment.
- (pt) we believe that it is essential to develop measures that help reduce the volume of municipal and industrial waste and promote its recycling and reuse, using rational and integrated solutions.
i would reiterate that the effectiveness of an environmental policy depends on the will and efforts of the national institutions, which are responsible for drawing up the policy and mobilising resources, but also for directly involving industry in the reduction of packaging waste.
however, the public also has a role to play in protecting and enhancing the environment.
prevention of packaging waste requires the producer to base his decision on the type and quantity of materials used on a life cycle analysis of the products and to quantify its environmental impact from design to disposal.
in this way, he can internalize environmental costs into the final price of the product.
unfortunately, the directive proposed by the commission has not gone far enough in waste prevention.
in this respect, the directive is more ambitious in that it sets targets for the recovery and recycling of packaging waste, in particular for the following materials: glass, paper, plastic, metals and wood.
i particularly object to the proposal to bring forward the recycling and recovery deadlines for portugal, greece and ireland from 2012 to 2009. it should be recalled that these three member states have characteristics which make it more difficult to achieve the objectives of recycling and recovery of packaging waste, in particular in terms of the dispersion of the territory (outermost regions) and the populations.
it is essential to promote the recovery of packaging waste, its recycling where possible and the prevention of its production.
the union's strategic objectives set out in lisbon and, more particularly, the environmental dimension added and transformed into sustainable development in gothenburg, make it compulsory to adopt measures and policies capable of combating waste and environmental degradation.
it is recognised that environmental protection is, in the long run, the only guarantee of protection for citizens and consumers.
i must, however, like several colleagues from the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, express my concern about the proposed shortening of the time-limits for member states to transpose the proposal for a directive.
the achievement of the objectives, which are of interest to all of us, requires a credible and sustainable strategy.
- (pt) we consider that the continuation of the fight against the destruction of the ozone layer, the greenhouse effect and the global warming of the planet that results from it is a priority and an urgency.
to combat this, either we must increase the use of alternative and renewable energy sources, which enable us to reduce the consumption of fossil fuels, or we must implement measures to reduce emissions from polluting industries and their effects - which requires investment in research and the application of new technologies - in order to contribute to the objectives set out in the kyoto protocol.
however, we reiterate our rejection of the creation of a "trade in emission allowances" - which would make it a commodity - allowing the most developed countries to buy "pollution allowances" from the least developed countries, guaranteeing the former their status as "privileged polluters" and favouring the non-development of the latter.
moreover, recent data from the united nations indicate a trend towards increased emissions from industrialised countries.
this report is part of this perspective, accepting greenhouse gas emission trading, which is seen by some as a tool to achieve the objectives of the kyoto protocol.
- (pt) i welcome this proposal for a directive, which is the first step towards the creation of an international market for the trading of greenhouse gas emission allowances, an area in which the union has been a pioneer - before the international regime provided for by the kyoto protocol came into force in 2008. the excellent work of the rapporteur has made an important contribution to this process.
the directive will create a market for greenhouse gas emissions within the eu by introducing emission allowances for industrial complexes, which will be allocated by the member states' authorities.
whether for farmers, consumers or taxpayers, this progress will lead to better use of resources, greater transparency, improved quality and protection of the environment, and animal welfare, which are the various concerns expressed on this point.
as regards trade and the environment, which are sensitive issues in this house, we should take a decision at the cancun conference on the wto observer status of multilateral environmental agreements and on the deepening of discussions on other environmental issues.
you know our programme in this area: greater coherence between multilateral environmental agreements and international trade rules.
this is why we have asked, for example, that the secretariats of multilateral agreements and unep, which acts as the secretariat for certain types of multilateral agreements, be granted observer status at the special sessions of the committee on trade and environment, which take place in geneva and are devoted to this issue.
we also believe that the cancun ministerial conference should decide to further discuss voluntary environmental labelling.
it would be appropriate to stress and emphasise that the right to health should prevail over any commercial interests; the commission has also been active in the field of the environment, and has recently launched a new programme for the protection of the environment.
- (pt) i congratulate mr bradbourn on his excellent report on the proposal for a regulation of the european parliament and of the council on the granting of community financial assistance to improve the environmental performance of the freight transport system (marco polo programme), to which i give my support, especially when the rapporteur considers that the programme should allow the implementation of innovative projects proposed, in particular, by a consortium of smes.
the budgetary efforts devoted to health protection, consumer protection, food safety and environmental criteria for quality agriculture are also positive.
instead of engaging in a genuine critical analysis of the conduct of monetary policy, they repeat the same arguments, regardless of the economic climate.
it was, as you said in your speech, a tragedy with repercussions in terms of loss of human life and with immense long-term social, economic and environmental repercussions.
it is true that forest fires are a scourge that consumes hundreds of thousands of hectares in the european union every year, especially in the south, but it is essential to bear in mind that this year the atmospheric conditions that have plagued europe have contributed to aggravating the situation and have created the conditions for the existence of fires of enormous dimensions and difficult to combat.
we call on the commission to continue to work with the national authorities, both in minimising the environmental impact and in supporting the affected populations, but also in reforestation, supporting all national public aid initiatives and reviewing the forest focus programme so that it can take greater action.
thousands of elderly people have succumbed to the heat in several european countries, and the ozone spikes may have also claimed many more lives.
is this a climate fatality or are we facing the consequences of climate change caused by human intervention?
the state must play a new role in the reorganization and reorganization of the entire portuguese forest, as well as in the problems that the climate is raising today throughout europe.
climate change is indeed a concern and action must be taken immediately.
mr president, i am sorry that we are not legislating on climate change today, because in the face of the great profession of faith that i have seen here, i think we would not have as much difficulty in legislating as we have had in recent months.
i say this from my experience as rapporteur in this area and having often felt a certain scepticism about climate change.
firstly, by moving towards sustainable forest management, which focuses more on native species and less on exotic species; which focuses on the multiple use of the forest, because the human presence in activities such as hunting, tourism, beekeeping, forestry, pastoralism and agriculture is the best guarantee of deterrence and surveillance.
but let's also take lessons from climate change: fires, which contribute directly to climate change because they are a major emitter of carbon dioxide and reduce our capacity to absorb carbon, are increasingly also a consequence of climate change.
the 1990s were the warmest of the last 200 years, record highs were reached last summer in several regions of southern europe, scientists are predicting a temperature increase of 5.8 degrees over the next 100 years and it is therefore urgent, first of all at home, to follow up in the field of transport the good efforts we have already begun through emissions trading, reduction measures in industry and energy.
kyoto is a baby step, just a 5% reduction, when scientists say we need to reduce planetary emissions by 70%.
the result of this tragedy is economic and environmental, but it is also human.
but despite this environment, i have not yet lost hope in visionary and supportive political responses of the kind that were given on the occasion of the great european challenges of the completion of the great internal market and the achievement of economic and monetary union.
the same european community which has sanctioned the application of this clause to delimit the ownership of undersea fossil energy mines in the north sea by the various states wants it to no longer be valid when it comes to biological resources.
in the ten-year period which, according to our position, should now be opened up for the european institutions to reflect on the status of the western waters, it is necessary to thoroughly review the question of access to waters, to adapt european legislation to the major principles of international maritime law and to examine the best ways of safeguarding a sustainable fishery in the atlantic.
i am very pleased to see that, after all these months in which these questions have been raised, in which the existence of information that had no chance of being disputed has been repeatedly confirmed, that this is the situation, the commissioner has finally stopped telling us, as he said only a short time ago, that it seems that iran has generally complied with the provisions of the additional protocol of the international atomic energy agency.
and i am also pleased to note that the commissioner does not come to tell us what he told me in an answer less than a month ago, that he recognises iran's right to develop nuclear energy for peaceful purposes, as if anyone had ever contested that right.
we in the european parliament's intergroup on disabled persons - and i would like to make a special reference to its chairman, richard howitt, who has been tireless in leading this intergroup - in close cooperation with the disabled persons forum, have nevertheless managed to make some points on small and large issues of interest to all: whether it be access for disabled people to city buses, whether it be the prohibition of barriers in the built environment, whether it be telecommunications.
i therefore support the rapporteur's proposal for an increase in funding to eur 65 million for this second phase of the five-year programme and regret that the commission does not support and endorse this proposal, because it is not enough, in any case, to have good proposals and good positions, the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat violence in the area of the environment.
we cannot waste time in drawn-out negotiations on reconciliation.
it also proposes a partnership for sustainable development taking into account the crisis facing the fisheries sector.
compulsory training should therefore not be a barrier to access to the sea and rivers, but a requirement for the sustainable development process at local level and for participation in a process of rebuilding marine fauna and flora.
the amendments to the draft directive on the protection of the environment and the protection of the health of workers from the risks related to exposure to asbestos and to the risks related to the use of asbestos-containing products, which were adopted by the council on 27 june, were adopted by a large majority.
a serious assessment of the socioeconomic and environmental effects is therefore required, as well as guarantees that articles vi and xxi of the general agreement on trade in services are revised, in order to protect the right of each developing country to freely decide on its method of water supply.
- (pt) to quote the rapporteur, who is a member of my own political group, if we want fairer trade contributing to sustainable development and the fight against poverty, concrete measures must be introduced at the next wto ministerial conference in cancun to take account of the needs of developing countries in relation to world trade.
- (pt) given the indicators of environmental and social instability in developing countries, the impartial economist admitted last year that it would be impossible for living conditions in the southern hemisphere to improve unless the northern hemisphere gave up a small part of its wealth.
if we are to be credible partners to developing countries and thus reduce the shocking gap in living standards in both hemispheres, both the eu and the us must, in addition to meeting the monterrey and johannesburg objectives, take advantage of the next round of wto negotiations in cancun to advance the removal of trade barriers and the phasing out of agricultural and energy subsidies.
history tells us that it is ineffective to try to change the 'economic' climate by imposing legislative restrictions.
first, it should ensure that the most developed countries increase their contributions in order to fully comply with the commitments made at the monterrey summit (the millennium summit) and the johannesburg summit (the sustainable development summit).
i hear and share the rapporteur's concerns about the environment and would suggest a gradual and appropriate approach to withdraw support for farms which do not respect the environment.
but we have to put political energy into it, because these words can't go down like prestige.
there are measures in this report which also have to do with the consequences of prestige and which cannot be forgotten (the clarification, the social and economic consequences, the ecological consequences which are still pending and which must be prevented in the future) and there are more general measures in this report on which, of course, i focus my attention: the specific corridors, the question of ports of refuge, the question of adequate means of relief in emergencies of this kind and, above all, a more firm attitude on the part of the european union and all the member states within the framework of the international maritime organization.
firstly, on the environmental side, it is right to acknowledge the efforts made by the spanish authorities, with the valuable help of fishermen and thousands of volunteers, to extract fuel oil, minimise risks, clean up the coast and repair ecosystems, even though, unfortunately, the daily discharge of polluting material continues.
secondly, as regards the clarification of responsibilities, it is regrettable that, a year later, the scrutiny is so timid: the commission has already taken a number of measures to combat pollution.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the vote in the committee on civil liberties, which decided to reject the austrian initiative on a regulation setting out criteria for determining which states could be considered safe third countries in order to be able to assume responsibility for examining the application for asylum submitted by a third country national, clearly expresses a broad consensus, at least in procedural terms, on the uselessness of this instrument and the waste of energy that would be involved in pursuing this initiative to the end.
in his answers to the committee, mr trichet stressed, among other things, the fundamental principle of realism and pragmatism in taking account of the rapidly changing economic and financial environment.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is therefore a step in the right direction.
in view of these facts, the establishment of a european hydrocarbon supply monitoring system to address this major problem could play a role, particularly in relation to our knowledge of the state of world stocks and essential research into other energy sources such as renewable energy.
while the european parliament's amendments 2 and 5 emphasise the need to reduce oil demand through the development of renewable energy sources, experts agree that what we really need is a sustainable reduction in energy requirements.
the problem, however, is that the european commission used these concerns to mask an attempt to almost assert its rights to directly interfere in the management of energy resources in the member states and to influence the market on its own behalf.
the best strategy might be to leave this issue as it is and to focus primarily on promoting genuine mechanisms for linking stocks, encouraging a community of interests and interconnecting trans-european energy networks.
among them:- the need for member states to have at their disposal the appropriate means to carry out the checks, which will be achieved by increasing the number of inspectors and improving their working conditions and methods; - the importance of having qualified seafarers to ensure that the required preventive maintenance of ships is carried out; - the existence on board ships carrying dangerous substances of systems to deal immediately with minor pollution; - the development of safe port facilities equipped with the necessary means to implement appropriate emergency plans.
- (pt) the sinking of the oil tanker prestige off the coast of galicia on 19 november 2002 caused an ecological and economic disaster of a very large scale, to which, i am pleased to say, parliament has devoted its full attention from the outset.
- a reference to the increasing difficulties of pension funds following the global stock market downturn, demonstrating well how increasing financial market risks are having adverse effects on the adequacy and sustainability of capitalised pension schemes; - a denunciation of the anti-social character of most of the recent reforms carried out by some member states, considerably reducing social security pensions and attempting to increase the retirement age; - a note on the importance of adopting strategies for reforming pension schemes at european and national level which promote full employment, accompanied by social rights that strengthen and renew public pension schemes, broadening their financial base, guaranteeing the financial obligations of employers and intensifying income-sharing mechanisms; - finally, a rejection of all attempts to weaken or replace outstanding public schemes by widening the volume and the scale of public pension schemes and creating new forms of social solidarity, in particular by establishing the criteria for the long-term regulation of social reform, and establishing new forms of social solidarity, which is essential for the long-term functioning of social schemes, in particular by creating new forms of social reform and widening the scale of social pension schemes.
while i believe that the financial package should be more substantial, i support this initiative, which was voted unanimously in the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
- (pt) the commission has long wanted to create a community framework for the taxation of energy products.
this compromise by the council is therefore a significant step in that direction, allowing agreement on a comprehensive directive on energy taxation covering all types of energy.
we are in favour of reducing the tax burden on workers, but the solution does not involve 'environmental taxation' of energy or pollution.
in addition, the underlying polluter-pays principle raises serious concerns, as it allows those with economic power to pollute, which is evident in the liberal philosophy of emissions trading.
environmental protection and the fight against environmental dumping must be achieved through appropriate regulation and effective enforcement, involving strong state intervention and investment.
- (pt) the european parliament has just taken an important step towards greening energy taxation in the european union by giving the green light to the directive restructuring the community framework for the taxation of energy products and electricity.
i hope that the council will now react in an equally constructive way and that it will not again oppose the veto which prevented the revision of the same legislative text in 1997. one of the most important objectives of sustainable development policy is to internalize environmental externalities in the economy.
in other words, the price of products must reflect their true environmental cost.
the price signal is fundamental for both producers and consumers to reorient their choices towards sustainability.
i support the rapporteur in advocating more ambitious and binding rules, including reducing taxes on production using renewable energy sources and increasing levels of taxation on fossil fuels for transport.
- (pt) i voted in favour of this report because i believe that it is necessary to deal with climate change and the growing environmental risks, using taxation as an additional instrument.
while it is clear that there will be a need for greater coordination between member states to address growing environmental challenges, the focus should be on the application of the polluter-pays principle rather than on the imposition of artificial consensus.
- (pt) the commission's communication on sustainable and adequate pensions analyses the first reports on national pension strategies submitted by the member states.
the commission's analysis covers the adequacy of pension schemes, their financial sustainability and the need to modernise them.
there is also a clear awareness of the need for further reforms to preserve the long-term sustainability of pension systems, combined with sound public finances.
moreover, as i also agree with most of its conclusions on three fundamental objectives - adequacy, financial sustainability and modernisation of pension systems - i voted in favour of this report.
madam president, i have three fundamental points to make about what happened in cancun: firstly, the position of the european union and the united states, which has contributed to the fact that this conference has not been able to find solutions that are fair to the developing countries, that it has ignored the need for debt forgiveness for the least developed countries, that it has forgotten the problems of workers and micro, small and mediumsized enterprises in europe itself, as in the textile, clothing and footwear sectors and farmers; secondly, the need to democratize the functioning of international institutions, to establish new, fair and democratic rules that give hope to the peoples and allow for effective sustainable development; but also, thirdly, the strong popular mobilizations in cancun and a little bit around the world against an unjust globalization and demanding new, fairer and more democratic rules.
since it offers virtually no benefit to the environment and it is not even certain that it meets the standards of the eco-label, this amendment can have very negative consequences for smes producing paints.
in addition, commitments to sustainable development, the introduction of national emission ceilings and the adoption of notions of 'cross-compliance' (with a view to a better environmental awareness of industry) are encouraged by this type of proposal.
- (pt) it is a positive thing to propose to achieve the millennium goals such as: eradicating hunger and extreme poverty, guaranteeing universal primary education, promoting gender equality and empowering women, reducing child mortality, improving maternal health, combating hiv/aids, malaria and other diseases, ensuring environmental sustainability, developing a global partnership for development.
the more developed countries continue to ignore the need to cancel the debt of the less developed countries and to focus more on their own priorities, notably the singapore issues, than on the need for fair trade and sustainable development.
- (pt) no authority is sustainable if it is not credible.
if we are to regulate globalisation, it is essential to reform some of the existing institutions - such as the world trade organisation, the world bank and the united nations - and give them the social and environmental ambition that they currently lack.
it is also important to create new institutions such as a world environmental organisation and an international court for environmental crimes.
the commission has already adopted a proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment in the event of accidents at work.
- (pt) speed limitation systems fitted to vehicles carrying passengers or goods have proved extremely useful in raising road safety standards and reducing the severity of injuries resulting from accidents, as well as air pollution and fuel consumption levels.
this will help us to make road systems safer and more sustainable, which is essential for the successful implementation of the future transport policy.
it will help to alleviate the social costs of job and income losses and the environmental impact of fires.
the heavy rains caused landslides and flooding that threatened to worsen the scale of the disaster, not to mention the environmental consequences in terms of soil erosion, as well as the serious socio-economic problems of the country's inland regions where forests were the main source of economic activity.
apart from the human and economic consequences, this tragedy has also brought social and environmental costs.
several recent decisions of the european court of justice have highlighted the need to clarify and simplify competition rules, particularly in the light of the competitive environment in other regions of the world.
- (pt) we support this motion for a resolution in general, given the difficulties faced for years by beekeepers in the european union, given the decline in bee populations and the resulting loss of income, aggravated by climate-related constraints, the presence of diseases such as varroosis, and difficult market conditions.
i share the rapporteur's concern that these agreements should be governed by the same sustainability, conservation and precautionary criteria as those applied to fishing in community waters, in particular the code of conduct for responsible fisheries (fao - 1995).
- (pt) the common fisheries policy and the union's development cooperation policies must, by their coherence, complementarity and coordination, respect the principles of sustainable development, while at the same time making a decisive contribution to poverty reduction in the countries concerned.
we all know the importance of forests for the balance of the earth's globe, for biodiversity and for economic activities, in addition to the aesthetic and environmental values they contain.
the forest focus regulation aims to build on the experience of the two previous regulations and to create a long-term monitoring system to assess the state of the forest ecosystem in the european union.
it also reveals a great ambition: to cover areas such as pollution, climate change, biodiversity, natural resources and soils.
in this context, i believe that rapid liberalisation of the railway sector in all member states favours this type of transport as a credible alternative to combat the exceptional growth of air and road transport with its harmful consequences for the environment and land use planning.
i am therefore in favour of including fire prevention in forest focus, even if the best tool for fighting fires remains, in my view, the rdr (regulation on sustainable development).
the system would be implemented by the police and tourist offices and would include sites where urban waste water is discharged near the bathing area.
these issues should remain the responsibility of local authorities and member states in accordance with the principle of proximity, because cases where waste water gives rise to cross-border problems are rare.
- this new discussion on the mechanisms for monitoring greenhouse gas emissions in the community and the implementation of the kyoto protocol may be nothing more than a new round of wishful thinking, if an aggressive and coercive attitude is not adopted on this issue.
because the climate situation, as the recent heat wave tragically demonstrated, requires more than half measures.
on the contrary, we must make these issues a real choice for society, controlled by all, and therefore consider a different transport policy in europe and marginalise road transport, which is a major producer of greenhouse gases.
the environmental dimension must be emphasized in the production process as well as in consumer behaviour.
finally, other energy options are needed, starting with the phase-out of nuclear power, energy savings and the search for clean and renewable energy solutions.
- (it) mr president, i could not help but vote in favour of this important report by mr lange on measures to combat emissions of polluting gases and particulates.
this is all the more strange when the first objective of structural policy is sustainable development within the union.
however, it is also worth noting, among others, references to the relaunch of the european economy which, taking advantage of the improving international economic climate, is seeking to implement a set of key proposals under the growth initiative, with the support of the eib and the involvement of the private sector, as mentioned here.
more than ever, the stability pact needs to be revised in the light of employment, education, training and sustainable development.
and the possibility that we have crossed the point of no return, the point where even the most radical measures will not allow a sustainable cod fishery for the future, is a possibility we cannot rule out.
we need a fisheries policy that does not simply give obituaries after approving conditions that do not allow or encourage sustainable fishing.
this poses a serious threat to the environment and the sustainability of resources, but also to fishermen and the fleet sectors affected by these catches.
it is therefore important to remove existing obstacles in all areas of enterprise policy, to create a genuinely enabling environment - in the areas of taxation, the workplace and ethics - and to tackle with energy, promptness and efficiency structural problems such as risk aversion and pessimism among young people in some eu member states towards business creation.
the entrepreneurial spirit which will hopefully be the source of jobs, growth, competitiveness, the realisation of individual potential and the development of society in general will be the result above all of the 'favourable environment' which the community and national institutions will be able to create.
a new approach to industrial policy is needed, which should be based on the following priorities: maintaining efforts in education, training and skills; reducing tax barriers; increasing investment in research and innovation; ensuring the quality of infrastructure (transport, communications and energy); facilitate business financing and social dialogue; make business creation procedures more flexible, etc.
as the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy has drawn up a balanced report, i voted in favour.
the struggle of the bolivian people in recent months has turned into a popular insurrection whose central demand was to safeguard the sovereignty of bolivia and its people over the country's energy resources.
in particular, the country should have full control over natural resources, especially energy resources, especially through the nationalization of its resources and the end of any outside interference, especially from the united states.
it is therefore essential that the european union contributes to the eradication of poverty, the promotion of sustainable development and the respect for human rights, the rights of minorities and the rights of indigenous peoples, as well as to democracy, good governance and the fight against inequalities.
mr president, the reduction of administrative obstacles to the free movement of vehicles and persons and the establishment of a direct link between the annual road tax to be applied to passenger cars and the environmental impact of the vehicle are just two of the concerns felt by the european citizen and to which the commission intends to give a positive answer in the future.
it is not easy to achieve full harmonization in the next few years, nor is this what is at stake today, especially because it is known that some states tax the car less concerned about its negative environmental impact than about the amount of tax revenue they can channel into their budgets.
the solutions proposed in this report are very much geared towards this objective, although they give priority, and reiterate them, to the concerns expressed on several occasions by parliament in the sense of concern about the emission of waste components harmful to the environment.
we want the results of its work to make a real contribution to enhancing maritime safety, achieving the objectives for which it was set up, namely: - to examine in detail maritime disasters, in particular those of the prestige and the erika; - to analyse the economic and social consequences of these disasters, in particular as regards fisheries, industrial activities and tourism, as well as the environment and health; - to assess the current international standards for maritime safety and how they are applied; - to work towards ensuring the implementation of the recommendations already adopted by the european parliament and to propose any additional measures deemed necessary.
among the ep recommendations to be implemented, i would like to highlight, among others, the withdrawal of single-hull oil tankers, the increase in resources allocated to inspections, appropriate training of seafarers, the increase in resources allocated to pollution control measures in emergency situations and the establishment of shelters equipped for emergency situations.
i would add that the essential environmental dimension, which this report deals with in depth, requires a new approach to car taxation.
the proposal to link the level of taxation to co2 emissions and the much-needed greater harmonisation of market conditions are to be welcomed.
they are right because they are an essential element for the proper functioning of the internal market, seeking to eliminate or alleviate the anomalous situation of the heavily segmented car and fuel markets, and they are positive because they systematically value an approach to the environmental impact of motor traffic.
all community initiatives and proposals for initiatives must have as their ultimate objective the satisfaction of citizens, whether through the availability of goods and their quality, the environmental sustainability of societies or the progressive reduction of the costs of access to such goods.
this proposal, as formulated, does not seem to contribute to any significant results in the field of environmental protection and may even lead to price pressure to increase prices.
the council can only make such an initiative viable if it is integrated and coordinated with the directive on energy taxation and the proposal for a framework directive on infrastructure charges.
- the commission either argues that harmonization is necessary at european level or, on false grounds of environmental protection, raises the taxation of diesel where it is lower than that of petrol.
the commission claims that it wishes to correct distortions of competition within the internal market and protect the environment in accordance with the 'polluter pays' principle.
in my view, this proposal, which the commission justifies by claiming that the environment must be respected and that unfair competition within the internal market must be combated, leaves much to be desired in terms of efficiency and could have negative consequences for the current member states and, above all, for the new member states.
- (pt) sustainable and increased investment in research is the best guarantee of success in achieving the objectives which the european union has set itself, which must lead to the creation of a knowledge-based economic area which is more dynamic from an economic and cohesive point of view.
it never mentions the usefulness of research to improve living and working conditions or to safeguard the environment.
the policy of widespread privatisation, a direct consequence of the choice of deregulation and competition, has led to a monstrous indebtedness of operators, seeking at any price - and at any price - new market shares, building parallel and competing networks, such as mobile, in a dubious waste of resources.
this means that piloting can also be carried out in self-assistance mode, with possible consequences for maritime and environmental safety, which is unacceptable.
progress has been made in the development of waste management plans, although some countries do not have such plans or do not implement them, and as a result, several infringement procedures for non-compliance with the directive have been initiated.
the objective of stabilising waste generation at 1985 levels is not affected, as no reduction measures have been defined by the member states and/or the commission, which urges member states to intensify separate collection of recyclable waste and to have sufficient recycling and recovery capacity as well as incineration capacity with energy recovery in the absence of better treatment alternatives.
we strongly support the positions presented in the report and the measures proposed, particularly those which would ensure that countries are self-sufficient in waste treatment and that the directive is respected and revised, especially as regards the conditions for the recovery, disposal, control and use of waste, on the basis of minimum criteria which take into account the environmental impact of these operations; the gaseous and other emission regulations must be equivalent for all processes.
- (pt) i welcome this commission proposal, which i believe meets the expectations of the citizens of the european union both in terms of increasing levels of environmental protection and efforts to treat, recycle, recover and transport waste.
the belief that environmentally responsible waste management is crucial is now, fortunately, widely accepted.
this is evidenced by the impact that the transport of waste (and polluting products), especially by sea and inland waterways, has had recently in the media.
in the field of waste today, operators - whether they are simply transporters or those responsible for treatment, recycling or recovery - must be obliged to comply with the highest possible safety and protection standards and procedures.
to this end, control regulations must also be developed, depending on the type of waste being transported and how it will be treated once it has reached its destination.
finally, i would like to stress that in this area it is essential to share information and best practice constantly because of the frequent scientific and technical doubts about the fate of certain types of waste.
finally, the implications of these 'concerns' for agricultural and environmental policies must be assessed, particularly in social and economic terms, in order to avoid rendering the agricultural sector unsustainable.
- (pt) erosion, decline of organic matter, pollution, waterproofing (caused by the construction of housing, roads and other infrastructure), silting (caused by mechanical pressure resulting from the use of heavy equipment, overgrazing, sports activities), decline of biodiversity and salinisation (excessive accumulation of soluble salts of sodium, magnesium and calcium), as well as floods and landslides are major threats to the soils of the member states.
in this area, despite the fact that there is no specific european policy dealing with this issue, actions undertaken in the context of other policies, such as environmental, agricultural, regional, transport or research policies, have a clear impact on soil protection, which is more than necessary.
- (pt) i voted in favour of this report because i agree with the principle that when it comes to environmental issues we must always try to raise the standards.
the environment knows no borders and affects everyone.
data provided by member states on waste treatment, recovery or recycling processes must be more reliable and provided more quickly.
i fully agree that member states should have an obligation to develop waste management plans or to improve existing ones, mainly to promote measures designed to encourage the prevention and reduction of waste generation.
i must, however, express my dissatisfaction with the general tone of the report when it recommends giving the commission more powers to impose sanctions and levy taxes in environmental matters, asking that infringement proceedings be initiated according to the higher or lower quantity/quality of data provided by the member states.
it is essential that such action, which should focus more on control, monitoring and prevention and less on penalties, be based on reliable data, particularly as regards the nature of the waste treated.
as the rapporteur himself points out, however, the first harmonised statistics will not be available until 2006. we will therefore not have the elements which we objectively need to assess the 'relative' dimension of waste treatment in the european union.
in the field of defence, the commission has already undertaken a number of major projects in the field of the protection of the environment, including the development of a european defence industry.
this report on the defence industries seeks to make its contribution to strengthening the climate of collective security to which we all aspire.
it is important that twinning be supported by adequate and sustainable financial allocation.
- (pt) as i have said many times, i support measures which contribute effectively and actively to the strengthening of environmental quality standards.
the present proposal aims to protect human health and the environment from persistent organic pollutants (pops), which are chemical substances that persist in the environment, accumulate in living organisms through the food web - a complex, networked interaction of food chains - and are therefore likely to have particularly long-lasting adverse effects on human health and the environment.
there are some protests against putin's war in chechnya but also self-congratulations on the progress of the good understanding on police cooperation, not to mention the wish that "the progress made in russia to create a climate conducive to the development of trade and investment by russian and foreign companies" continue.
let us look for alternative policies that give priority to employment, quality public services, sustainable development and the well-being of the people!
in this respect, the president of the commission described this agreement as a model - i agree - and it could be the basis for future agreements with third countries, poor countries, underdeveloped countries, which will find in a scheme and a system such as the one contained in the agreement the best way of defending their interests and of supporting their fisheries in an ecological, scientific and economically advantageous way.
the proposal aims to compensate for the additional costs of disposing of these products by financial compensation for production, processing and marketing, taking into account the costs induced by insularity, remoteness of the market, the small size of local markets, topography and climate.
they face additional costs, which include transport costs as well as energy consumption, insurance and packaging related to transport.
- (pt) in line with previous reports, the first element considered in this report is a set of measures designed to simplify and improve the regulatory environment.
- (pt) i welcome the european commission's initiative to adopt measures to reduce air pollutant emissions from ships.
shipping is largely responsible for pollution in coastal areas and also contributes to global warming.
as the report also points out, the commission proposal also fails to provide the necessary link with the fifth and sixth eu environment action plans.
i very much regret that the report does not address the issue of gmos, in particular the so-called 'coexistence' or genetic pollution issues and that it also neglects the support and protection of organic seeds.
the introduction of gmos will challenge the choice of organic farmers, with the economic risks arising from this pollution affecting their eligibility for existing aid and no clear definition of the responsibilities of the polluter is given.
given the growing demand and interest of many farmers in the application of good practices which are healthy and respectful of the environment, the commission's proposal amending regulation (eec) no 2092/91 to monitor the development of organic farming in the european community is fully justified.
similarly, biodiversity must be preserved, crops and products must be protected and any pollution of organic crops by genetically modified organisms must be avoided.
in fact, this legal instrument, which is closely linked to the principle of subsidiarity (although only in the application of the means) could be an option for the areas proposed, which are economic development, environmental policy, transport, agriculture and fisheries, the state itself remaining the sole and direct interlocutor of the european institutions.
- the agenda calls for the recommendation for second reading (a5-0461/2003), on behalf of the committee on legal affairs and the internal market, on the council's common position with a view to adopting a directive of the european parliament and of the council on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and redress of environmental damage (10933/5/2003 - c5-0445/2003 - 2002/0021 (cod)) (rapporteur: toine manders).
i think it would be good for both the environment and the economy if we could create a level playing field instead of creating this patchwork of environmental legislation in europe that will not benefit either the economy or the environment.
i am afraid that we would then have a sector that is totally out of control, and i do not think that this would work for our economy or for the environment.
i think the environment will benefit, and our economy will too, because we will have minimal harmonisation.
this is good for the environment, because the environment knows no borders.
in the internal market which we want to optimise, there are no frontiers for our companies either, so i think that minimum harmonization is an excellent starting point, which is good for both the environment and our economy.
in this chamber, a micro-climate was created, a kind of communicative euro-enthusiasm, driven by the federalists, which, for many members, made them lose sight of national positions and interests, which then took their revenge.
indeed, by strengthening the internal market and the vitality of european competitiveness - especially in relation to the us - we will gradually improve our own financial services, which foster a healthy competitive environment among european operators, in a framework of fairness, transparency and sustainable growth.
- (pt) we supported the rejection of the commission's proposal which, in the name of combating distortions of competition in the internal market and protecting the environment and on the basis of the polluter-pays principle, seeks to achieve a gradual upward harmonisation of excise duties on petrol and diesel for business purposes and to separate excise systems for these fuels from excise systems for private fuels.
- (pt) we are in the process of drafting the proposal for a directive, presented in january 2002, on environmental liability with regard to the prevention and remedying of environmental damage, which is particularly important in order to ensure better protection of the environment and to combat all forms of pollution by establishing new principles and proposing new obligations, in particular for companies.
it is for this reason that this directive was negotiated by the committee on legal affairs and the internal market and not by the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy.
- (pt) i welcome the work that has been done in an area which is of growing concern to european citizens, namely the protection of the environment and the liability of economic operators for damage caused to the environment.
i therefore consider it justified, necessary and useful to oblige operators to take the necessary measures to deal with imminent threats of environmental destruction and to establish compensation mechanisms for the damage caused.
i also share the idea of distinguishing between certain high-risk commercial activities for which all environmental damage is covered and for which objective liability applies and other commercial activities for which only damage to protected species and natural habitats will be covered if intent or negligence can be proven by the operator.
the realistic and balanced solutions we are able to provide in this area will help to achieve the objective of preventing and remedying environmental damage and protecting the economic and competitive interests of the companies concerned; these solutions will also help to achieve the objectives set by the community for achieving sustainable growth and development.
another solution which i have long advocated would be to invest in the railway sector, which is undoubtedly a safer mode of transport than road transport and could represent a genuinely sustainable alternative to the road sector, which is becoming increasingly congested.
mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, decentralised cooperation is part of a sustainable development perspective which values the role of local actors, encourages the consolidation of civil society and promotes partners rather than just protected persons.
(close §) specific measures to support gender equality, women's empowerment and their role in the economic, social and environmental spheres are thus significant contributions as well as an imperative of justice.
no one is unaware of the inherent risks of contamination from the release of gmos into the environment.
but in all this debate, taking into account the opinions presented at the parliamentary hearing, the conclusion is that contamination cannot really be avoided in the presence of genetically modified crops on a large scale, with consequences ranging from loss of biodiversity to economic damage to conventional and organic agriculture.
- (pt) the proposal aims to reduce the negative environmental impact of heavy goods vehicles passing through austria, due to the particular geographical and environmental situation of the region.
- (pt) the mere fact that this recommendation for second reading is aimed at enabling a real development of cogeneration, which is expected to increase energy efficiency and improve security of supply, has led me to support this report, even though i realise that binding targets for the community and the member states will probably be adopted, as well as a stricter timetable for the transposition of the relevant directive, which is likely to create difficulties for some member states.
i believe that this debate should be encouraged, so that this energy solution and its positive effects on the environment can be evaluated in depth.
in reality, the present recommendation for second reading is aimed at enabling a real development of cogeneration, which is hoped to increase energy efficiency - and the resulting savings - and improve security of supply.
by 2010, we will mobilise investment of several million euro in projects for real harmonisation, cohesion and growth: the trans-european networks (transport, telecommunications and energy), innovation, research and development.