we would point out that this critical climate prompted the swedish government to carry out an inquiry into the matter, which was completed last year.
however, we do not share the rapporteur's absolute conviction that the only way to achieve sustainable respect for human rights in the european union is to introduce the charter of fundamental rights into future treaties.
i wonder very much about the validity of the statement in paragraph 133 that a 'climate of impunity' for misconduct and abuse of violence by police and prison staff must be established in seven eu member states, including sweden.
as swedish liberals, we see european integration as an opportunity to solve cross-border problems, such as the environment, trade, cross-border mobility, human rights and conflict management.
this is, in my view, a clean source of energy that reduces the increasing greenhouse effect.
it reduces the risks of climate change if it is safe and properly managed.
there's a shortage of medicines, there's not enough energy, etc.
this is why last november the partners of the korean peninsula energy development organization decided to suspend heavy fuel shipments to north korea.
the vote will take place tomorrow at 11 a.m.
- the next item is the report (a5-0004/2003) by mrs korhola, on the joint text approved by the conciliation committee, on a directive of the european parliament and of the council providing for public participation in the drawing up of certain plans and programmes relating to the environment and amending council directives 85/337/eec and 96/61/ec (pe-cons 3676/2002 - c5-0598/2002 - 2000/0331 (cod)).
it complements the environmental information directive.
the principles of the aarhus convention are very important, because the environment has no 'voice of its own'.
the commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of the environment is a very important one.
this directive lays down basic requirements for public participation in environmental decision-making.
the directive covers both important plans and programmes to be drawn up under our environmental legislation and decisions on activities which may have a significant impact on the environment.
such activities are covered by the environmental impact assessment directive and the directive on concerted action to prevent and control pollution.
secondly, the whole environmental problem.
the rio conference itself has already shown that the current patterns of production and consumption are not sustainable for a world of six, seven, perhaps eight billion people who would live at about our level.
there is no reason at all that all these poor countries should go through the exact same stages of development as we have in terms of energy production, transportation, chemicals, agriculture and waste management.
i think we should examine ourselves and ask ourselves: have we had enough power and energy in relation to belarus?
we must invest in a transport system in europe that places high demands on the environment and safety.
we are now emphasising even more clearly what we want to achieve in terms of the environment and safety.
if the lisbon process does not strike a balance between structural measures, the employment strategy and sustainable social systems, it will break down and fail.
finally, i would like to say something about sustainable development.
it concerns economically sustainable development.
it concerns sustainable social systems, not least sustainable pension systems, i.e.
both economically sustainable and socially sustainable, so that they are fair.
however, sustainable development also affects the environment.
if we start investing in the new technology, the cleaner technology, we will also improve the environment across europe, while increasing growth and creating more jobs.
the distortive, anti-competitive, anti-development, short-term financial support undermines confidence in the european business climate.
first of all, i have nothing against the parts concerning forest fires and air pollution, because it is a phenomenon without frontiers, affecting all countries equally.
but we cannot support the third part, which is the joint monitoring of biodiversity.
it is a matter of concern only to the member states, since the biodiversity of northern scandinavia cannot be compared with that of southern spain or that of the greek islands off the west coast of ireland.
moreover, no one today can say what is meant by biodiversity from a european perspective.
if the policy makers were to decide that the biodiversity of a property or area is so important that it should be preserved for the future - some islands were mentioned here just now - who will replace those who lose their access?
(parliament rejected the request for urgent procedure)
- the next item is the report (a5-0021/2003) by mrs malliori, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the proposal for a council recommendation on the prevention and reduction of the risks of drug dependence (com (2002) 201 - c5-0270/2002 - 2002/0098 (cns)).
- the next item is the report (a5-0008/2003) by mrs stihler, on behalf of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy, on the commission communication on community and national provisions on breast implants (com (2001) 666 - c5-0327/2002 - 2002/2171 (cos)).
(sv) we, the swedish social democrats, have chosen to vote against several of the amendments to the report on the monitoring of forests and environmental interactions in the community (emphasis on forests).
at the same time, we must be able to demand basic trade union rights, to ensure that the environment is not ravaged and that human rights are not violated.
on the one hand, the debate we have within the union on the degree of liberalisation of a number of sectors which have hitherto been protected - energy, transport, the postal service - and on how we organise our own society - is a debate which concerns a number of my colleagues in the commission, as well as in parliament and the council.
energy and the environment are two of the eu's most important challenges.
action is essential to reduce climate impact and to increase security of supply.
this is strongly linked to environmental work, but the transport sector is also important for economic development and the potential for growth.
the right direction is to reduce the environmental impact.
the objective of sustainable development must be at the forefront, and long-term thinking must be the guiding principle of our actions.
instead, we should behave in a way that facilitates future technological breakthroughs without compromising security or sustainable development.
the focus should therefore be on promoting biofuels that have particularly good life cycle characteristics in terms of climate, environmental impact and cost-effectiveness.
this position is characterised by the ambition of sustainable development.
people want answers to questions about the ethical, ecological and social aspects of shopping.
these are unacceptable conditions, but i shall not waste any more time talking about this at the moment.
a united europe offers us enormous opportunities to work for peace, stability and democracy across the continent, to combat environmental degradation and crossborder crime and to increase the well-being of all our citizens.
we assume that all candidate countries will use the time remaining until full membership to work on improving the rule of law, minority protection, the fight against corruption, environmental issues and efforts to combat widespread trafficking in human beings.
the commissioner also stressed that the eu should strengthen its international work, strengthen the united nations and strengthen its capacity to prevent and resolve conflicts, rather than devoting more energy and resources to a common military defence which is ultimately a matter of national concern.
the fact that a detergent has passed the biodegradability test does not exclude the possibility that it may have generated other highly non-biodegradable metabolites that may cause very serious environmental problems.
good environmental choices, which the swedish conservation society has really been at the forefront of, have made me believe that we have the absolute safest detergents available in the trade in the world today.
the commission has therefore decided to propose a new regulation on the protection of the environment.
in my view and in the view of the committee on the environment, there is no reason not to make the same assessment for the use of consumer products.
- (sv) the proposal for a directive on environmental liability is a major step forward for the european environment and should prevent many accidents in the future.
the definition of biodiversity to which liability may apply is too limited.
the proposal to abolish strict environmental liability for activities for which an application has been made is in our view a far too radical exception which is also at odds with national legislation.
there are many tasks that the eu can usefully devote to, such as contributing to peaceful conflict resolution and countering transnational environmental threats.
at the same time, we insist on and emphasise the need for quality, sustainability and a future-oriented approach.
it is about shifting the tax burden from personal taxation to consumption and environmental taxation.
there are few things more important in a future world than sustainable and environmentally friendly agriculture.
we have very strict environmental and animal welfare standards.
i would like to comment on the commissioner's view on multifunctionality and sustainability.
it is very urgent, and we have said so in the eldr, and important to deregulate agricultural policy in the long term, but now it is urgent to guarantee support for a multifunctional and sustainable agriculture in the near future.
it was also a success for all of us who want environmental considerations and respect for consumers to be able to set the framework for free trade.
the same applies to the officials of the commission's directorate for the environment, who have been very helpful.
by adopting these rules, we are demonstrating that environmental considerations and respect for the laws of developing countries are key concepts in the eu's approach to global trade in genetically modified products.
greater flexibility to support tasks outside food production, such as the preservation of biodiversity and the rural landscape, or other types of environmental measures.
yes, we can do that by working, as we have begun to do - as mr bodrato suggested - towards fair labelling which allows consumers, consumer citizens, to choose between products manufactured under more or less sustainable conditions from the social and environmental point of view.
no country has been able to reduce poverty without a significant increase in energy use.
however, the availability of modern energy varies greatly.
more than two billion people in the world lack access to electricity or fuel and are reliant on firewood and animal waste for their energy needs.
modern energy services for these poor countries are therefore an essential prerequisite for the eradication of poverty in these countries and for the achievement of the so-called millennium development goals.
most of today's energy sources create environmental problems at local, regional and international levels that threaten the health and well-being of present and future generations.
finding new ways to expand energy services for the poor, while taking greater account of the environmental impact of energy use, is one of our key challenges.
despite the primary importance of energy supply for development and growth, energy issues have been largely absent from the international development agenda and poverty reduction efforts.
for example, energy projects accounted for less than 5% of eu assistance since 1990. last year in johannesburg, something of a breakthrough happened, and the two energy initiatives launched by the commission are more than welcome.
both the communication we are discussing today and the eu's special energy initiative in johannesburg underline the crucial role of energy in the fight against poverty.
support for capacity building, energy sector reform, demand side management, diversification of supply, development of appropriate regulatory frameworks and financial mechanisms, and public/private partnerships, is a good model.
of course, the majority of investment in the energy sector must be in the form of private capital, but there is also a great need for aid.
furthermore, the necessary transition to renewable energy and more efficient energy use can only be achieved with targeted financial support to cover the higher initial investments.
we therefore propose in this report that a special fund for sustainable energy should be set up, in much the same way as the one now set up by the commission for water actions, worth one billion euro.
the important thing is that there is a regulatory framework in every country to ensure that people with low incomes have access to energy, that is, that we have a good regulatory framework in this area.
i would like to make a special plea for amendment no 13 on a new recital 3a, which explains why we consider it particularly important to incorporate amendments nos 1 and 2. the commission's proposal for a directive on mining waste, which was published on 2 june, if i remember correctly, is more concerned with waste management.
they belong to the seveso directive and not to the general discussion on waste management.
i would like to thank my colleagues on the committee on the environment, but also the council and the commission for a fantastic creative and good cooperation.
– mr president, in amendment no 6 to this report, mrs boudjenah proposes to add a sentence to paragraph 1. she stresses the important role of access to energy for development and suggests that we characterise access to energy as an essential human right.
access to energy is not part of any human rights convention.
it seems to me that it is essential that the eu does not give in, especially when it comes to the us responsibility for climate policy.
- (sv) as moderate meps, we believe that the marine environment is important and should be protected.
the preconditions for a future clean marine environment in the baltic sea have improved considerably since the collapse of communism and are set to be further improved by the enlargement of the union.
as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection on this report from the committee on legal affairs and citizens' rights, i intend to concentrate on environmental issues and the issue of sustainable development.
we need a broader definition of economics that also includes the conservation of natural resources, of clean water, of clean air and of biodiversity.
this is exactly what has been said by the commission and the eu at large, and it has been said in johannesburg, for example, that public procurement must contribute to sustainable development.
i heard mr lehne say that environmental issues should be dealt with separately and economic issues separately, but that misses the point.
public procurement, using our common resources, our common tax money, should contribute to sustainable development.
the council's common position included both wine and water and was unacceptable at least as regards articles 53 and 55. together with colleagues from other groups, we have tabled amendments on the environmental criteria, production methods and the whole life cycle perspective of products, eco-labelling and certification.
i think the european parliament would be ashamed if we did not align our approach to public procurement with the approach to sustainable development that prevails in the union as a whole.
why is the commission so restrictive in relation to certain factors such as environmental considerations, social needs, employment considerations and other factors which are more about the quality of the products than the purely quantitative relations?
the working environment must be good and the conditions of pay reasonable, but at the same time this decision must not create rules which interfere with the labour law applicable in the respective member states.
i regret the way one issue has been handled, namely sustainable development.
sustainable development is still only words, and we have not done much to give it a more concrete content, for example in the form of indicators.
there are well-documented risks to biodiversity from the cultivation of genetically modified crops.
we will therefore vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment, which seek to tighten the thresholds down to 0.5% for authorised gmos.
clear rules on coexistence are needed, and rules on environmental liability covering genetically modified crops are also needed.
we cannot then start by backing down, but must assert our right to put consumers and the environment first and to impose as stringent rules as we wish.
on the contrary, it puts us at risk, since it is impossible to predict the characteristics that a modified gene will produce in its new environment.
i shall therefore vote in favour of the amendments tabled by the committee on the environment tomorrow.
however, i would like to say once and for all that there are so many issues to be resolved, including environmental responsibility, that there can be no question of lifting the moratorium.
this is a waste directive, which is not really about packaging at all, but about used packaging.
if we wanted to achieve reduced waste and reduced transport distances, especially with trucks on the highway, we would start by discussing packaging, the role of packaging, logistics and how we could make enormous gains, environmentally and traffic-wise, by having fully customized packaging.
it is also highly unreasonable that we are involved in recycling - whether it is reuse or recycling or energy recovery - and that we are constantly discussing the packaging that goes to households.
energy is one of the eu's key issues.
we must take care of the environment and security of supply, develop new sources of energy, especially renewable sources, use the energy we have in a more prudent and efficient way, and so on.
it is clear that it is good to have more solidarity in europe, also in the field of energy supply, but at the same time we are entering areas where the member states consider that each country should be sovereign in determining the degree of joint commitments.
most agree that there is a need to achieve better coordination of energy supply in europe, but at the same time member states want to retain a large measure of control.
the cost of increasing stocks is relatively high, and it affects the environment both in terms of transport and storage.
it shall contribute to sustainable development, production and consumption.
secondly, whether pensions are financially sustainable in the long term, so that future generations do not have an unnecessary financial burden.
it is important for economic development that we have sustainable pension systems.
this applies not only to the countries participating in the euro area but also to the other countries, so that we can achieve sustainable economic development.
it is about economic incentives, but it is also about lifelong learning, working environment issues, work organisation and so on so that people who have come of age can also remain in the labour market.
today's environmental problems must be seen from a pan-european perspective.
the eu is a unique tool for creating common environmental rules.
the eu's environmental policy should be extended by means of stricter minimum rules and environmental taxes.
i hope, however, that the igc can find solutions on energy and environmental taxes and a robust decision-making system.
the eu and its member states' role in the energy sector is to formulate safety and environmental requirements, to monitor compliance with these requirements and to promote research and development in the energy sector, research aimed at replacing fossil-based energy production with environmentally friendly energy sources.
we should, however, be careful not to use taxes as a weapon to seriously disrupt competition in the energy sector.
a rational energy policy is best promoted by free trade and free production of energy.
we are particularly pleased with the inclusion of full employment, transparency, equality and sustainable development as important points in the draft constitution of the convention, which is also welcomed in parliament's opinion.
i think we will have to discuss this in the coming months, to see whether we need more flexibility on singapore issues - as some have called for - more flexibility on social and environmental issues, more flexibility also on agricultural policy.
we cannot now say in retrospect that we pursued our project to make european agriculture and european agricultural policy more sustainable, for example, simply because we needed an argument to make it in international negotiations.
there is a rather large need, for example, when i look at how different the positions of the same ngo are, depending on whether you are talking to the department responsible for development policy or the department responsible for environmental policy.
it is not possible to say - and many ngos have done this - that european agriculture must be environmentally friendly and that we must use the budget for environmental services in agriculture!
the following shall be considered as a written declaration:
- the agenda calls for the council declaration on the revision of the trans-european networks and sustainable development.
i would like to begin by thanking the commission for this proposal for a directive on the limitation of emissions of volatile organic compounds from the use of organic solvents in paints and varnishes.
it is a very good proposal which will bring about a considerable improvement in these emissions.
better air also leads to a better environment, which in turn leads to better health.
i would also like to thank my colleagues on the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
i think part of the difficulty is that sustainable development work is somehow at odds with our traditional way of working.
to integrate the objective of economic growth with the objectives of social development and effective protection and responsible management of the physical environment.
we can take this parliament as an example - we should have a committee on sustainable development, but instead we are sectoral.
the impact of this production, or consumption for that matter, on the environment or social development is not shown.
the role of the european union in the work of sustainable development is central, not least today when we are faced with a half-hearted attitude of the administration in washington.
as regards our own policies, we need to adapt the economic regulatory framework so that we provide sufficient positive incentives for far more efficient energy and material management.
on the energy supply side, which is central to the lisbon process, we could agree on an ambitious target to reduce the energy intensity of our economies or, if we wish, to increase energy efficiency, for example by 2.5 to 3% per year.
as regards our relations with the poor countries, commissioner wallström has already referred to the water and energy initiatives.
regarding energy, i am unfortunately a bit pessimistic.
it is therefore essential that energy supply be given priority and that sensible action be taken in this area, not only by the commission but also by the beneficiary countries, which is by no means a given.
it is hoped that the new partnership will partly lead to more sustainable fisheries that take account of the local needs of third countries and partly allow third countries to exercise control over their own fisheries in the future.
however, i believe that the new elements of the regulation on biodiversity monitoring and on land strategy are a matter for each member state.
most forests are now certified, which means that the forest owners themselves take responsibility for biodiversity.
despite this, the programme adopted by the european parliament means that forest monitoring, biodiversity and forest fires will be centralised.
in these countries, we have a long tradition of economically and ecologically sustainable conservation of our forests.
our forests do not have the same biodiversity as the forests of southern europe.
this is due to the fundamental natural conditions, the fact that the climate is colder.
this is real environmental policy.
- (sv) water quality is an important environmental issue and it was therefore important and commendable that the eu adopted a framework directive on water, directive 2000/60/ec.
i approached a passerby and - what a coincidence, it was mr sacconi, the rapporteur of this report - he said to me: 'you see, despite everything that has been done in the past, the greenhouse effect has increased, it has increased, it has become enormous.
the whole earth became a hot greenhouse full of flowers, like those used by those who want to grow flowers, and this is how all human beings became good people".
i therefore voted in favour of this report, but i have a doubt, mr president: would it not be better, perhaps, to let the greenhouse effect increase and let things go on as they should, even with the help of humanity?
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has tabled an opinion.
i also appreciate the work of catherine stihler and her report and the cooperation that she and i, as rapporteur for the opinion of the committee on the environment, have had.
the amendment by the committee on the environment, which states that the precautionary principle requires drastic measures and that member states should be able to take additional measures to those common to protect and conserve stocks, has been adopted by the committee on fisheries, and i welcome that.
failure to take the measures advocated by the international advisers is a waste of fisheries resources.
they are 1 600 scientists from 19 countries, and not listening to these scientists is a waste of what could be thriving fishing communities and thriving industry.
it is clearly stated that, to combat the new threats and risks facing europe, political strategies to combat poverty, protect the climate, defend human rights and promote democracy and the rule of law are needed.
by introducing a partially common tax policy, we could, for example, increase the cost of activities harmful to the environment.
- (sv) this report is a step towards the very ambitious lisbon strategy objective of making the eu the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based economy in the world, capable of sustainable economic growth accompanied by a quantitative and qualitative improvement in employment.
i particularly welcome the target of about 10% allocated to efforts in the environmental field.
the commission has already taken a number of initiatives to promote the use of energy in the transport sector.
in the field of pollution and the safeguarding of basic natural resources, the list of problems to be solved is long, especially in asia.
we can, however, imagine some exceptions, and one of them is the environmental tax, one of the proposals indirectly debated in the report.
let me say a few words about the environmental aspect.
we know that road transport is responsible for a very large proportion of carbon dioxide emissions.
we also know that transport routes, and therefore the quantity of emissions, are more and more abundant.
through the kyoto protocol, eu member states have committed to reducing emissions considerably, rather than increasing them.
it therefore seems judicious to design simple and clear taxation systems susceptible to environmental benefits.
a priority must be given to environmental considerations.
diesel engines have a more efficient combustion and therefore release less carbon dioxide than petrol engines.
of course, this fuel tourism also contributes to further environmental destruction.
overall, the environment, road safety, equal conditions of competition and the conditions of workers are the losers if we maintain a system within the union with large differences in fuel costs.
the commission proposal is about improving the environment.
tax competition can be good, i agree, but not if it is harmful to the environment.
environmental and energy taxes are the taxes which i believe can be decided at eu level.
a modified commission proposal is good for the environment, strengthens the internal market and improves competition.
the more essential and central communications networks become to the functioning of modern markets, the greater the commitment to ensuring and delivering a safe and secure environment for those operating at all levels.
the committee on civil liberties, justice and home affairs unanimously supported it, but it disappeared in the course of the debate following an error by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
in the brussels greenhouse, this debate on the details of the stability pact is still ongoing, while ordinary citizens, at any rate in my country, the netherlands, have been debating something else for a long time.
what a waste of time to get to that point!
- (sv) the european parliament has today voted on a proposal for a directive to harmonise the rules applicable to environmental liability within the european union.
the idea is to make businesses and other actors across the union subject to identical legislation as regards their obligations to prevent, mitigate and pay for the environmental damage for which they are responsible.
i have taken a more environmentally friendly line than that advocated by the group of the european people's party (christian democrats) and the european democrats and have therefore voted for stricter standards on nuclear pollution (amendment no 42) and on gmos (genetically modified organisms) (amendments nos 43 and 44).
the commissioner said that the eu had to be more flexible in its approach to the problem of the environment.
it is urgent and important to link agriculture and the environment more clearly.