this means that we really need to establish the truth of the costs for our entire energy supply system.
in my opinion, emissions trading is immoral and does not solve the problem; he's just pushing it back.
the implementation of the white paper on renewable energy projects, which would lead to a massive reduction in greenhouse gases, must be accelerated.
i would also like to highlight a few points which constitute an approach which promotes an integrated development strategy which respects the environment.
you said that we must offer our citizens, both at home and abroad, a model of economic, social, cultural and ecological development that is clearly different from other models, including the us model.
- (de) mr president, madam commissioner, the measures in this directive range from the establishment of water management plans, detailed information and hearing rights, intensive cooperation between member states to the fight against water pollution by various toxic substances.
- (de) mr president, the commission's white paper on environmental responsibility, presented a few days ago, on 9 february, still mentions as the last man-made disaster the sinking of the oil tanker which polluted and poisoned french beaches.
a few days later, we can already add another terrible ecological disaster to the list.
the reasons are the same everywhere, namely, insufficient technology and a profit motive which is clearly put before respect for the environment and, of course, before human health.
i also believe that it is essential that we draft and implement a directive on global environmental responsibility within the european union.
- (de) mr president, this regulation provides the european union with an instrument and the legal, but also political, responsibility to put into practice the integration of the environmental dimension into development policy.
as long as the integration of the environmental dimension is a long-term commitment, i am in principle against a limitation of the period of validity of this regulation.
i think this is a really important point, especially when it comes to the sustainable management of tropical forests and other forests in developing countries.
in view of the constantly increasing volume of traffic on europe's roads, i would like to emphasize the need for maximum technical safety of vehicles, but also the need to take account of the environmental dimension.
dare to support this innovation charter, especially in the field of information technology and biotechnology, but also in the field of women's equality or environmental protection.
indeed, nothing that europe is doing today in economic and ecological terms can be dissociated from possible global developments.
the failure of the wto negotiations in seattle has shown us just how difficult it is for europe to make its progressive standards on social policy and environmental protection understandable to third countries.
the european label must and will signal to third countries a whole series of important ideas in the field of environmental protection.
by producing certain categories of products, the harmful effects on the environment can be reduced.
if the production facilities of a country have to meet the environmental protection criteria, so do all other production facilities that manufacture this product.
if we achieve this, we will have given a global dimension to an important ecological idea.
this morning we debated the protection of the environment.
at that time it was said that the protection of the environment was the priority.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
in the field of renewable energy, we have excellent reference documents in themselves, such as the white paper mentioned above, together with exceptional documentation.
everyone says that we do need these new sources of energy.
we say that on the one hand there are the supporters of renewable energy sources, people who are concerned about the environment and the future, and on the other hand there are the energy consumers, the oil traders, the oil producers, who want the exact opposite.
i think we should overcome it and realize that these renewable energy sources have only one enemy.
first, the environmental benefits; second, the employment benefits.
fifth, a growing number of studies are claiming that the actual reserves of fossil energy sources are infinitely smaller than they appear today.
first, the sustainability of energy sources.
secondly, security of supply, which is of vital importance for europe, especially in view of the unstable political situation in the countries which currently supply europe with energy.
thirdly, of course, cost-effectiveness, because energy is an essential component of our international competitiveness and we must therefore constantly ensure that energy supplies are cost-effective.
i come from upper austria and the upper austrian region is currently breaking records in terms of energy savings and renewable energy.
we are a country in which renewable energy is the top priority and upper austria has an energy saving agency that works beautifully.
this is where the principle of subsidiarity comes in and i think that the energy saving fair, which was set up by this agency and which was held a few days ago, has responded to the need for training and information for a wide range of people.
i think that this management system is of particular importance for the future of energy supply in europe.
the only way to increase the employment rate in a sustainable way is to provide businesses with the context they need to have entrepreneurial freedom.
there are forces which are spending considerable energy on getting closer to the european union and other forces which are reducing these efforts to nothing by fomenting attacks, by putting akin birdal back in prison, forces which are provoking precisely the supporters of the pro-european current in turkey in this way.
it has already been approved by the agriculture and environment committees.
the internal market will only be strengthened and made to function if consumer protection, employment policy, social security, tax policy, environmental protection and regional policy are no longer seen as opposing but as integral parts of a whole.
this transfer is an opportunity to reduce the environmental constraints on the region concerned and its population.
the european commission's annual report on transeuropean networks once again presents the progress made in many transport projects and highlights the importance of tens for environmental protection.
what we need is a rapid completion of the brenner base tunnel for the people, for the protection of the environment and for a transport policy which is sustainable and forward-looking.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the manufacture of these materials from renewable raw materials must offer a real alternative to synthetic materials and therefore also become an attractive new source of income for farmers who supply raw materials.
the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions by 8% compared with 1990 is therefore the main objective until 2012. the tragedy of climate change was felt yesterday and today here in strasbourg, and its scale is much greater than we had imagined.
to achieve co2 emissions reductions and fuel consumption reductions, we have used a three-pronged strategy: environmental agreements with the automotive industry, tax incentive schemes and finally a system for identifying fuel consumption and co2 emissions.
however, despite all these efforts, these guidelines, this common system of measurement, we should all be well aware that we will have a very difficult time achieving the target of reducing greenhouse gases to the level of 1990. some experts advise us to try to achieve a stabilisation of current emissions.
this may sound very pessimistic, but if we think about it, if we consider that in the 14 european countries - sorry, there are 15 - as an austrian, we may sometimes doubt and wonder whether we are still only 15 or 14, but i believe that we are still 15 - the number of vehicles continues to grow, if we think of the enlargement to the east, that in addition the people of china and india want to live as we do, we must admit the obvious: it will be very difficult to achieve a reduction in greenhouse gases or co2 and we must strive at all costs to achieve stabilization.
unlike some of the speakers before me, i think it is very important that the report not only deals with the stabilisation of greenhouse gas concentrations but also with their reduction, given that significant results must be achieved by 2005 in accordance with the kyoto protocol.
i think it is essential, in view of the doubts this parliament has always expressed about voluntary commitments in environmental conventions, that we as a parliament have succeeded in imposing that the data collected from 2003 onwards should be used to monitor voluntary commitments by the automotive industry.
i think it is also very important - without extending the scope of this decision - that we have succeeded in getting the commission to provide for the carrying out of studies and harmonised measurements of specific co2 emissions from n1 vehicles and to present proposals to that effect.
the great advantage of the railway is its safety and its respect for the environment.
as regrettable as it is that the commissioner for transport is not here, it is very symbolically positive that the commissioner for the environment is here because, in the end, transport, and rail transport in particular, has a practical purpose, is not a value in itself, and must also improve the environment.
another essential point which mr savary stressed is that it must be ensured that in the event of enlargement the european railway should not stop at the present frontiers but should instead extend to the whole of europe in order to contribute everywhere to increasing transport safety and improving the quality of the environment.
i would therefore like to point out briefly that the criteria for the greek public debt are not yet fully met and that, on the other hand, the sustainability requirement, to which we attach great importance, at least as regards inflation, is a matter of concern to the ecb, the commission and ourselves.
we note that, according to the reports of the commission and the ecb, greece is currently fulfilling the convergence criteria, provided that they continue to be spread out, as was also the case in 1998. however, doubts as to the sustainability of this situation cannot be completely ruled out.
this very clear yes is in no way diminished if we recall our commitment to a strong euro, to sustainability, to price stability and equal treatment between all countries, if we encourage greece to continue its efforts and also point out that much more effort still needs to be made in this country to present sustainable price stability and a balanced and low-indebted public sector.
further efforts to support price stability on a sustainable basis are therefore essential.
we say yes to membership, but we encourage and demand that the necessary measures be pursued and that sustainability be guaranteed in the spirit of the stability pact.
in addition, environmental impact assessment tests will only be carried out after the introduction of the fuel elements, but it is not known when.
furthermore, this decision was taken against the wishes of the czech minister of the environment, against the wishes of a majority of the population and against an urgent request from the german and austrian ministers of the environment to obtain detailed documentation on the safety devices.
while the czech republic still has time to fully transpose the acquis, it is questionable whether it is prepared to start today by adopting these essential elements of community policy on citizenship and the environment.
- (de) mr president, ladies and gentlemen, i was pleased to hear yesterday the speech by our new president-in-office, jacques chirac, who said that we should pay more attention than we have done so far to the precautionary principle in the field of the environment.
i believe, however, that the examples of austria and germany show - as the previous speaker, mr schnellhardt, said - that it is not by chance that in the countries where participation is highest, it is argued that compliance with existing environmental legislation, but also the use of the better technologies available, are essential instruments for increasing environmental efficiency, the protection of the environment of companies.
in this context, i would like to support the amendments which call for the use of the best available technologies, and to call for support for amendment no 12, which particularly emphasises compliance with the relevant environmental legislation.
i believe, however, that the credibility of this environmental audit system can only be guaranteed by strict criteria and not by an opposite strategy, alignment with iso standards.
i am aware of the importance of this directive for the development of environmental policy in the european union.
i am aware that this directive is not the appropriate forum for discussing air pollution in enclosed spaces.
i think, however, that we must point out the risks of air pollution in enclosed spaces and call for initiatives in this direction, for example more research.
there is evidence that indoor air pollution is responsible for exposing people to substances that are harmful to health, such as the carcinogen benzene.
on the contrary, we thank you for the energy you devote to cultural policy.
this is not only a question of the many personal difficulties associated with passengers' schedules, but also of the extra cost of kerosene and the pollution caused when planes cannot land on time.
eurocontrol must meet the security requirements, but the necessary environment should also be created to achieve this objective.
but the fact is also that, unfortunately, the referendum announced in austria, against which representatives of the european people's party, and especially of the austrian people's party who sit in this house, spoke a few days ago, could again dangerously aggravate the situation and the climate in austria, because it has aroused anti-european sentiments which certainly do not facilitate the task of the observatory against racism and xenophobia.
i would therefore like to express my opinion and ask the government and its representatives to abandon this referendum, so as not to foment a new hatred, a new anti-european climate, which can only displease the austrian people's party, which has always been a pro-european party.
sustainable development is a very important concept in our time.
we should strive to be a model, because for the world of tomorrow, the environment is a very important criterion.
i would have liked to have at least asked the committee on legal affairs and the internal market for an opinion on this point, because these are crucial issues and i do not think that the environment committee's exclusive treatment of this matter is an exhaustive approach.
as regards amendment no 25, i would say that in the field of insurance, all purely ecological damage cannot be assessed and covered up to now.
if we create a legal framework for the future on this point, it could serve the ecological conscience.
in this connection, we should give serious thought to how we could optimise the best practice approach in this area, namely that, for environmental protection, best practice, performance evaluation and the provision of incentives are fundamental principles.
it is also true that in the accession partnership with the czech republic the commission has made implementation of community legislation on environmental impact assessment a priority, also in the case of temelin.
my group supports this resolution on temelin for reasons of principle, because we take the concerns of the people seriously and because many of us have been active for a long time in the fight against nuclear energy in the east and the west.
mr president, the present draft regulation on measures to promote the sustainable management of tropical and other forests in developing countries is not only thematically very closely linked to the previous regulation.
not only does the diversity of criminal systems in the member states make such an undertaking almost impossible, but the energy that would be invested in it would be better used in preventive measures.
one problem is undoubtedly the great need to catch up in the field of environmental policy and waste disposal.
inland waterway transport will be important for environmental reasons, because we need to get bulk goods off the road, and if we can't transport them by rail, then we have to use waterways.
commissioner verheugen said this afternoon that enlargement will not lead to social and environmental dumping.
the points made by the committee on the environment in the brok report are necessary steps towards this and are the prerequisite for countering the slowdown in european environmental policy.
my group therefore supports the limitation of the transitional periods in the environmental field to a maximum of five years.
the priority of tackling the economic problems of water, air and waste is our political demand.
we call on the candidate countries to close their non-renewable nuclear power stations by the accession date at the latest.
the commission has already taken a number of measures to ensure that the community's environmental policy is not distorted.
i can and must welcome the promotion of a pan-european information system for food crises, the uniform transmission of information on food control and safety, or information on contamination and health and environmental damage.
i would like to conclude by pointing out the conflict of competence between the committee on agriculture and the committee on the environment.
the german environment minister finally put it into words in an interview.
in addition, there have not been sufficient environmental stress tests and the reactor core components have not been subjected to serious international control.
it is our declared objective to make europe the most competitive and dynamic knowledge-based area in the world, an economic area capable of sustainable economic growth with more and better jobs and greater social cohesion.
but we all agree that the parliamentary and presidential elections in january 2000 have created a new political climate.
the energy of our work must be invested in the shaping and implementation of the planned programmes, while simultaneously ensuring timely evaluation and coordination with other programmes.
we should therefore do everything we can to support the work of ngos in a sustainable way.
the environment and telecommunications will play a very special role in the future in terms of international competitiveness.
the vast majority of the remainder are concerned with the political rights of the citizens of the union, with economic and social rights and, last but not least, with the important questions of the future, such as the environment, health and consumer protection.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the risk that citizens who are not in good health and the elderly may only be able to take out private insurance because of their high risk is not sustainable for the development of society.
we cannot substitute the primary energy source, oil, for others, because then the shortage would also start very quickly.
but it is also a historic opportunity to give renewable energy sources, which are constantly being renewed, namely wind, water, sun and biomass, their place in the future energy supply for a number of reasons: environmental reasons, social reasons, because they create jobs, peaceful reasons, because we are fighting for these primary energy sources, and for the whole century, and finally because they are also a great economic opportunity for the industrialized countries.
i think it takes a lot of courage to put renewable energy in the position it deserves.
it is particularly important in research and development that we should be more involved in renewable energy in the future and that, above all, the gases, whether from landfills or sewage treatment plants, should be included in this area.
i also believe that education should not be forgotten, because energy efficiency and energy saving are absolutely the future for us, as is the use of an efficient infrastructure.
we should ensure that people are safe on the roads, and in the interests of the environment in particular, we should avoid traffic jams.
i therefore consider that the in-depth research that has been called for from time to time is also a waste of money and time, since in europe we have to deal with much bigger problems, as i believe, such as the traffic situation, enlargement and, more recently, bse.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environment from harmful substances.
the rapporteur has already mentioned much higher percentages, but the fact is that environmental noise is an important and serious environmental problem.
the reduction and prevention of environmental noise will therefore have to be an essential part of european environmental policy in the future.
we therefore call for a framework directive as a community framework for the assessment and control of environmental noise.
however, i also believe that the tripartite approach envisaged in the commission's report is somewhat artificial and, in the report, i assume that we should perhaps also include more innovative measures on energy efficiency, the spread of renewable energy and the practical application of climate action in our catalogue of topics.