and in so far as some of these studies already exist, to make its own comments more openly known, in view of the objectives of the treaties, which are not only to ensure the competitiveness of the european economy, but also sustainable development and economic and social cohesion.
a majority of the committee members have been more concerned with finding a balance between the need for the states and companies to enforce the rules of competition and the recognition of the value of such aid in contributing to the objectives of the treaty, in particular, as i have already said, in the areas of sustainable development, research and development and economic and social cohesion.
the commission has also proposed that the council should adopt a directive on the protection of the environment against the adverse effects of ionizing radiation.
there is one amendment, i should like to stress, concerning the energy sector, which seems to me as rapporteur particularly important.
for several years now we have been unable to take ambitious decisions on environmental taxation because the rule of unanimity prevents us from doing so, and this brings me to the second point of my speech, namely employment, since this type of taxation also creates jobs.
the fact is that although innovation often plays an important role, competitiveness is sometimes achieved by dubious mechanisms: in some cases a significant deterioration in working conditions in europe, increased risks, deterioration of the environment and widespread stress.
this is no empty phrase: a recent report by the european foundation in dublin shows that working conditions are bad or deteriorating for a significant number of workers; the 1999 report of the european environment agency on the environment indicates that 11 out of 12 parameters studied are either the status quo or deteriorating.
the erika oil tanker disaster also shows that competitiveness in an economic sector can be achieved at the cost of worsening working conditions, increased risks and a serious threat to the environment.
for example, i think innovation can also go hand in hand with a search for an increase not in labour productivity but in the productivity of scarce and non-renewable resources.
it is a path that is certainly a royal one, not only for sustainable development, but also for the creation of more stable, safer, less stressful and more promising jobs for the future.
i think it is worth recalling, as mrs randzio-plath has said, that the reason why a number of members want to return to this issue is linked to the recent international financial crises and their economic, social and environmental consequences, which are known to all in a number of countries.
on the one hand, it is the first report of the new millennium to promote more conservative energy consumption and there is no doubt that the chances of our planet's survival will be largely determined by how we use energy in the future.
that is why i ask you, commissioner, to ensure that the european investment bank does not support the pipeline project unless all the necessary precautions are taken, both from a social and an ecological point of view.
the community has been using it for some time now in a whole range of policies relating to the environment and human, animal and plant health.
this is explicitly mentioned in the environmental provisions of the ec treaty since maastricht.
in applying the precautionary principle, the commission is guided by the need to ensure a high level of protection of the environment and of human, animal and plant health.
of course, we apply it in various environmental sectors.
this principle has been used mainly in the environmental field, but, of course, it has also been used in human health.
firstly, because it clearly reflects the environmental objectives.
thirdly, it proposes a clear procedure for countering heavy metal pollution.
so it can do a lot of things for the environment just by this design.
for our part, i think we cannot put this common position in jeopardy, because this is a directive which we absolutely need for environmental reasons.
our group will in any case apply it as much as possible for ecological reasons and because we have obtained this directive, which is a balanced directive containing many elements and many criticisms, for example on the distribution of costs.
- mr president, madam commissioner, the proposal for a directive on end-of-life vehicles before us today is intended to ensure a high level of environmental protection in the union, but also to safeguard the proper functioning of the internal market in this sector.
i shall therefore support, as does my group, the common position which seems to me to be a balanced compromise between the constraints of business and the necessary progress in environmental protection.
- (nl) mr president, the proposal we are discussing has a great many positive points, mainly concerning the reduction of waste production, reuse, recovery and recycling of elements, the recovery of materials, etc.
an environmental agreement was signed on a voluntary basis.
this means that we are enabling a new sector to develop, which in turn creates new jobs and provides an invaluable service to the environment.
- (nl) the scale of the reaction to the florenz report has been demonstrated by the powerful lobbying machine that has been set in motion, both by industry and by the environmental movements.
i now hope that reconciliation will lead to a great outcome and that our efforts to improve the environment will overcome unreasonable industrial demands.
- madam president, ladies and gentlemen, what happened in a tributary of the danube is considered by many experts to be an accident of an environmental magnitude as serious as that of the chernobyl accident.
and i would like to make a number of positive proposals, i am thinking in particular of the social area, the environment and the follow-up to seattle.
on the environment, you announce a proposal for a decision on a sixth environmental action programme, and that is very good.
i also think that on the subject of civil liability it is good that we finally have a white paper, i am talking about civil liability for the environment, but i would remind you that parliament has been asking for a legislative initiative for six years and that the white paper, of course, announces such legislation, but for when?
or we will vote for the amendments tabled by my group, the rapporteur or the committee on the environment.
in my country this has been done by both the flemish and walloon authorities responsible for the environment.
i wonder if this is known to the green ministers for the environment in my country.
the us government's allegations were that eventually banning the presence of hazardous substances in electrical and electronic waste would be contrary to wto rules.
i am personally concerned about this because it means that if we adopt a text we are continually under threat of attack before the world trade organisation, so it completely undermines european environmental legislation, and in particular this proposal.
- mr president, ladies and gentlemen, life is the most important instrument, indeed the only financial instrument of the european union, which is exclusively devoted to the environment.
the environment remains a very poor relative of the european budget, even though it is above all an investment.
investment in natural resources, of course, but also in employment, since it has been shown that an active environmental policy creates new jobs, as evidenced in particular by the very great success of life: success with ngos, businesses, local authorities, third countries.
when it comes to the environment, investment and ambition decline, must decline in the long term.
once again, part of our planet's cultural and ecological heritage is disappearing, despite the many conventions and resolutions on human rights, the protection of minorities, the rights of indigenous peoples, etc., which have already been approved in this regard.
but if we can believe the environmental movements, even that hope is futile.
it is also important to start a debate that discusses and assesses the long-term economic, ecological and social consequences of mining in this region.
with the discovery and - certainly - exploitation of black gold and, later, uranium and oil, all means have been good to drive these populations from their lands and send them to regions offering little other prospects than poverty, deprivation and pollution.
in my view, the commission would be showing a well-balanced management of human resources if it could dispel a number of these concerns so that the liberalisation of a sensitive sector such as the postal service can take place in as peaceful a social environment as possible.
in addition to prevention, we must also look at the consequences of such disasters, and first and foremost at the ecological impacts.
ecological restoration is often a long-term process.
the current system of capped compensation only for quantifiable environmental damage is inadequate.
we must quickly move to a system of compensation without a ceiling, which would also be used for environmental damage that cannot be quantified.
i am in favour of a zero tolerance policy on marine pollution, which requires stricter and more effective controls.
it was made clear that a series of actors had to clear the floor to ensure that the erika was the last ecological nightmare on the breton coast.
it's good for the environment.
it should also be encouraging because a flexible part remains open for people who respect the environment, provided that the commission monitors all this closely and checks whether the system is working.
in the context of chapter i of title 11 of the treaty in particular, i am thinking in particular of the problems of working conditions and the improvement of the working environment.
for example, in the field of the environment, we have a white paper on civil responsibility for the environment.
a proposal for a directive on electrical and electronic waste is being announced today.
it has taken two years, and i think that a certain weariness has taken hold of the public, particularly in this parliament, to the extent that a number of members - for the sake of correctness, i will say that they are even in the majority in the committee on the environment - think that this is a balanced compromise.
at no time did the commission pass on parliament's amendments, and in fact, during the debate in the committee on the environment, the commission again decided not to touch on this common position: in other words, to reject all the amendments.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has adopted two important amendments.
i would mention in particular the mandatory indication on the main side of the product of the presence of vegetable fats; the requirement of prior validation of a reliable method of analysis; the principle of subsidiarity, which was abolished by the council, although originally proposed by the commission; the rejection of genetic engineering and chemical methods - i would point out that the committee on the environment supports the rejection of the use of genetic engineering; the commission has already made a number of proposals, and i am sure that the commission will be able to support them.
is it too much to ask to check, control and analyse in advance what the consequences of this directive will be, for example, for exports and the sustainable development of cocoa-producing countries?
each common position is always a delicate balance between national interests, ecological requirements and social considerations.
second question: does the system you propose for environmental taxation provide for qualified majority voting?
it is an important instrument of environmental policy for the coming years.
as rapporteur, i naturally support the amendments of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection.
- the proposal for a directive on waste incineration is a complex and technical issue, and its implications, both environmental and economic, must be carefully weighed.
at the end of the first reading, the european parliament had largely made its mark on the debate by proposing the merger of two directives on the incineration of household waste and the incineration of hazardous waste.
the imposition of 15 mg/m3 standards would imply excessive environmental costs and would not be cost-effective.
on the other hand, amendment no 14, on the definition of municipal waste, reintroduces a definition of mixed municipal waste, whereas this is already provided for in article 3 (3).
a misinterpretation of this article could lead to the exclusion of the use of municipal waste in cement kilns.
however, this type of treatment is provided for in the waste management plans of several public authorities.
this does not put me at odds with my environmental concerns, since co-incineration in cement works is not particularly harmful to the environment: cement kilns are subject to strict emission regulations.
in addition, co-incineration is sometimes an integral part of the waste management policy of certain states or regions, under economically and environmentally acceptable conditions.
- (nl) mr president, mr president-in-office of the council, commissioner, it is really regrettable that you have to devote so much time and energy to this issue because, as mr blokland has pointed out, we are constantly looking backwards and dwelling on the regulations of the 1970s instead of looking ahead.
i think that this climate of mistrust is clearly the result of the refusal of the american people to make commitments about the future.
the problem of aircraft noise pollution is a major political issue, including in my constituency in flanders.
i would point out the amendment which i tabled and which was unanimously approved by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy, precisely as regards the need for a european patent.
the council has made several drafting changes and, as the committee on the environment, we really do not see any problem with that.
the same day that my report was approved by the committee on the environment, the european commission put forward a new proposal to amend directive 95/53/ec.
the commission has also proposed that the european parliament should be consulted on the draft directive on the protection of the environment.
that is why i find it rather surprising - and so does the committee on the environment - that we are being asked to accept a number of additives for which we do not have all the information.
that is why our group and we are not as negative as the committee on the environment about the authorization of three additives in cooking sprays.
all the other amendments of the committee on the environment are supported by us, as is the amendment just tabled by the pse group.
in this context, we must avoid a climate of political vendetta between the main institutions of the union.
the explanatory statement of the resolution is a list of the wrongs committed, including the scandals which have since broken out in the area of waste, political cronyism, theft, the fléchard case, the echo case and others, not to mention the direct involvement of commissioner cresson.
have we forgotten the strategic objective of sustainable development, which was to be an integral part of a 21st century economy capable of meeting the needs of the planet and its citizens?
the link between the spread of modern communication technologies and the implementation of sustainable development must be made.
the green group is not dependent on the positions of the green ministers represented on the environment council.
so far too many obstacles remain; the competitiveness and dynamism of enterprises are directly dependent, from a regulatory point of view, on a climate favourable to investment, innovation and entrepreneurship.
it is not easy, but the current system is not sustainable.
we therefore hope that the igc will succeed in bringing about a vigorous energy reform.
i had intended, mr president, to explain this matter to my colleagues in more detail, but given the small number of people in the chamber, i do not think i should waste your time or that of the interpreters.
the recent commission communication on air transport and the environment sets out a strategy for reducing noise based on both the use of economic instruments - better air traffic management and access to airports - and the promotion of technological progress.
let me dwell for a moment on the problem of noise pollution at my own national airport, an airport which you all frequent very often, by the way.
the noise pollution caused by zaventem has long since exceeded the acceptable threshold.
the minister for the environment had risked introducing a total ban on night flights.
we can only remedy this by tackling nighttime flying and noise pollution at european level.
the false dilemma between economic, social and ecological aspects will have to be solved by europe.
we want a harmonised method of calculating noise pollution within the european union.
a recent commission communication on air transport and the environment sets out a first strategy.
the commission has made a number of points in relation to noise in its communication on transport and the environment, including - and you have mentioned this again - that the subsidiarity rule applies, that measures must therefore be able to be taken at local level without the european union having to regulate everything.
it would specify which airports are affected by noise pollution and these affected airports would be prohibited from certain activities which might be tolerated in other less sensitive airports.
however, would it not be useful, for example, for the commission to draw up a sort of list of good and bad airlines in terms of noise, of those which invest in the fight against noise pollution, of those which can show a good record in the field of noise pollution and of those which do not, which show no goodwill and which are accompanied by coercive measures.
because it is clear that noise pollution must be punished.
we have a communication now and we will shortly receive mrs lucas' report on air traffic and the environment, but when will we have legislation, when will we have a framework which is sufficiently explicit for each member state to ensure that there is no distortion of competition?
the increase in noisy, old and unregistered russian appliances is the main source of unacceptable noise pollution, not to mention the danger they pose to the environment and the safety of these appliances.
i therefore agree with my colleague mrs oomen in calling for a uniform framework which reconciles economic and employment interests on the one hand with concern for public health, the environment and safety on the other.
it is urgent that the community framework for the classification of noise pollution from aircraft, which was announced and promised, should be ready, madam commissioner, especially in view of the situation in russia.
these companies have great difficulty in maintaining their profitability and are sometimes unable to make the necessary investments to reduce noise pollution.
how sustainable and stable is the growth of this industry that we have seen over the last ten years?
i do not say much about this in my report, but mrs lucas does in a report on the environment.
the environment has its limits too, and this is a key question we must ask ourselves, perhaps not in the light of my report but in the light of mrs lucas' report.
just as europe and emu must be 'corrected' from an ecological and social point of view, so too will liberalisation have to be accompanied by measures to allow for better organisation of airspace, greater safety and more effective protection of consumers and the environment.
i believe that we should take greater account of environmental criteria such as noise and emissions when allocating slots.
a unified airspace, a common air transport policy, viable airports with a viable environment, improved security and strong european airlines are the ingredients of the aviation peace we must achieve.
the committee on transport as a whole welcomes this agreement because it was difficult to reach an agreement, particularly in the transport sector, which shows a good balance between competition and the environment and brings a satisfactory solution for both parties.
if we force our committee to deal with the individual points of the programme, the time and energy it will have to deal with the effectiveness of the programme as a whole will be considerably reduced.
the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection rightly wants to offer the possibility of using these methods to ensure better control.
are they sustainable?
is this inflationary situation sustainable - or lasting as you say ?
public broadcasting is thus facing considerable difficulties in maintaining itself in an increasingly commercialised environment.
in any case, we will support it, especially since it has been improved by the committee on industry, foreign trade, research and energy.
many colleagues have doubts about the sustainability of the member states' convergence and stability policy.
today we are obviously in a situation where the commission has found a budgetary means of finally starting the dismantling and still taking the necessary measures in terms of waste - but in a climate of uncertainty of which it is fully aware.
what is obsolete is that there is a specific treaty for nuclear energy.
as a long-time opponent of nuclear energy, it is precisely because of these unresolved problems that i will not say 'i am satisfied' but rather 'you see, we have always said so'.
i do not agree with mr vidal-quadras roca when he says that it is possible that some of the remaining solutions have not yet been put into practice, because i would not call this waste disposal a solution.
i think that the transparency which our colleagues are seeking is essential so that we can make nuclear energy pay for what it is responsible for in the future.
i also think that the work of mr maaten and the committee on the environment is good work.
it seems inconceivable to me, given my responsibilities in this area, to have a model of sustainable economic development which does not take full account of the issue of gender equality.
that is the precise political follow-up i am expecting and which may allow you, commissioner, to leave behind what i have called the climate of irritation surrounding you, and perhaps also your collaborators, as regards the effectiveness of the commission's foreign policy.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment.
last week i had to observe in my immediate environment that one in three young people checked during the weekend were using drugs.
the commission is also proposing to extend the scope of the directive to include the protection of the environment and the environmentally friendly use of energy.
i would like to thank very personally and in a very concrete way mr priestley and his colleagues for the speed and energy with which they responded to this request and provided us with the necessary information.
the seeds of new conflicts are being sown all over the world, and environmental disruptions, especially climate change, are being felt where the poorest people are.
i believe that we cannot want peace and sustainable development and actively participate in a world economic and trade war, including by favouring the arms trade over conflict prevention.
we expect you to make concrete proposals for the wto to return to its normal function as the regulator of trade in a global framework dominated by the primacy of human and social rights, health and the quality of the environment.
in the process of liberalising energy markets, two important facts can be distinguished.
it can also be stressed that the method of opening up energy markets depends to a large extent on the geographical situation of the member state.
the same amendment also aims to promote the interests of consumers in the liberalised energy market by guaranteeing universal services.
finally, i would also like to stress once again that our proposal for a detailed timetable for the achievement of carefully defined objectives is important in order to achieve a gradual but complete liberalisation of energy markets.
i therefore regret that a large majority of the committee on the environment, public health and consumer policy rejected this element and that the categorisation was finally removed.
- (nl) mr president, i would like to congratulate commissioner bolkestein on his determination, his energy and his success in establishing a community patent.
on the other hand, in the interests of compromise, we are prepared to support amendments nos 43, 44 and 45, which link these best available technologies from the point of view of the environment to, and i quote: 'economically and technically viable conditions for enterprises'.
- (nl) mr president, madam commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, we have enthusiastically approved this report because we find that environmental crimes are still underestimated, their consequences are ignored and it is often very difficult to establish responsibility for them.
the dioxin scandal in belgium began with the illegal dumping of a few litres of toxic waste oil from processors into animal feed.
environmental crimes are not always discovered, and when they are, it is often too late.
it is not uncommon for environmental officials to draw up minutes which are simply closed by the courts.
indeed, for many member states, the fight against and prosecution of environmental crime is not a priority.
we also note that in many countries environmental crimes are not yet seriously punished.
if we are to achieve effective prevention and combating of environmental crime in europe, member states will have to start acting in a consistent manner and will have to equip themselves with the means to achieve what they want.
i do not think there is any good environmental reason for trying to cram the bulk of the uk population into the lower southwest corner.
that said, it is also downright idiotic to exempt aviation from the obligation to tackle greenhouse gas emissions and ozone depletion and it is also a good thing to explore the possibilities of a uniform taxation across the european union, as mrs lucas has done, rather than maintaining highly distorting differences between the different regions.
energy is not cheap.
we must say that a price of oil of $10 a barrel is as abnormal as a price of $35 and that you know that a price of oil of $10 may be pleasant for us, but it is not sustainable on a world scale.
we certainly cannot tell people that energy can be cheap because that would be a very wrong message.
we must therefore abandon these neo-colonial relations and those which maintain dependence and destroy the environment.
this crisis of confidence is particularly evident in denmark and, although there may be different interpretations of the vote there, there is no doubt that some of the danish voters wanted to express a certain distrust of the union, particularly its inability or lack of political will in social matters, environmental protection and democratic transparency.
a detailed analysis of the final text shows that there is a certain imbalance between economic rights and property rights on the one hand and social and environmental rights on the other.
it is therefore a question of adopting limit values which are dictated by reality, since our environment is polluted by these substances, but which must also be as low as possible to limit the risks.
all of this was the subject of amendments by my group which were largely adopted by the committee on the environment - i thank it for that - despite the negative vote of the epp members.
the commission will continue to monitor the implementation of the acquis in the field of the environment.
if we want to pursue the objectives which the union has set itself, to tax pollution by the decoupling of work and to avoid harmful tax competition, both objectives shared by the union, we must make it clear that the only answer is shared sovereignty between member states and not tax competition between the same states.
it is clear that mr bowis and i, together with the whole environment committee, are largely on the same page, and i thank mr bowis for the very constructive cooperation he has shown over the past few months.
i understand that food safety must be the starting point, but bridges must be built to other areas such as the environment, health and so on.
hong kong can show china how an open, fully integrated market can play a leading role in the region and thereby achieve economic development and sustainable growth.
i hope too that we will be able to reinforce a flourishing economic relationship with hong kong, with strengthened cooperation in other areas, such as education and the environment.
it is an important point, i would stress, that information and information should be given greater emphasis, because it cannot be stressed enough that entrepreneurship and the business climate are both of exceptional importance, and that therefore particular attention should also be paid to the training of young people, but also to providing continuing training for staff in small and mediumsized enterprises.
i would like to make a special plea today for the systematic elimination of as many, if not all, of the obstacles to the completion of the internal market, in order to optimise the competitiveness of small and mediumsized enterprises, so that they can develop in a dynamic and sustainable way.
the situation in the villages is pitiful from an ecological point of view, the garbage is being dumped everywhere, the water is not always drinkable and the electricity is not working well.
the economy must be stimulated, combined with good environmental policy.
- mr president, commissioner, ladies and gentlemen, the commission's proposal to create a framework which will allow the share of electricity from renewable energy sources in the european union to increase significantly in the medium term can only be welcomed.
this directive is an important element in the series of measures to implement the commitment made by the european union in kyoto to reduce greenhouse gases and a worthwhile attempt to reduce the european union's dependence on oil-producing countries.
in the present circumstances it must be recognised that renewable energy sources need some form of financial support to ensure fair competition.
i am in favour of a realistic approach, one based on the knowledge that renewable energy production can never be a substantial part of total energy production.
the setting of realistic targets can only increase the confidence of the public in the energy policy to be implemented.
if the targets cannot be made binding, false expectations are created, in particular by pretending to seek environmental improvement without being able to achieve it.
this is at the expense of the environment and the credibility of the policy vis-à-vis the citizen.
finally, mr president, i would like to point out that, as far as the treatment of domestic waste is concerned, if one proceeds to separate collection of domestic waste, one can also proceed to separate treatment of domestic waste and that this separate treatment of domestic waste must absolutely be considered as a kind of renewable energy source.
shouldn't we have one too, because there may be some environmental risks that we should take a good look at.
in particular, there is a need to reinforce the motivation of the provisions of article 3 on carbon monoxide maximum authorised yields in the recitals of the directive.
finally, in relation to article 3, allowing manufacture in the european union only of products respecting this directive amounts to an export ban for products with higher tar, nicotine or carbon monoxide levels.
that is to say, we are working on lowering the maximum levels of tar, nicotine and carbon monoxide, then we are opting for adequate and prominent warnings and then we are banning misleading wording.
this framework directive has the ambition of combating noise pollution for european citizens.
environmental noise reduces the health and quality of life of at least 25% of the eu population.
it seems a little trivial, but i will explain why the committee on the environment, public health and consumer protection has done well in proposing to the house that this authorization should not be accepted.
- mr president, we voted with the epp group in the committee on the environment in favour of the lannoye report, and it is also in full accordance with our wishes.